K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that TSB Bank plc has declined to refund the money  she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam.
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs H unwittingly authorised  the payment  
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from 
the payee bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint 
for the reasons I set out below.
Mrs H and her husband  were both in their 70s at the time of this scam (March 2018).  Initially  
there appears to have  been a phishing  attack where they received  a call purportedly from 
their satellite television provider. This appears  to have been intended by fraudsters to obtain  
information and to add to the plausibility of the subsequent scam call. 
Mrs Hs husband then received a call lasting some  considerable duration purportedly  from 
his own banks fraud prevention team. During  this call he was deceived by fraudsters  into 
thinking that several of their accounts  were at risk - including Mrs Hs current  account with 
TSB. They were persuaded they needed  to act quickly to protect their money. 
In consequence, Mrs H believed that in order to protect her money, she needed to move  it to 
a temporary safe account. She therefore transferred almost the entire balance of her 
current account to this safe account.  In reality, there was no such  safe account and the 
money had been  sent to an account  controlled by fraudsters.
Subsequently additional  payments  were made  from her husbands  accounts  directly to the 
scammer (accounts  held with another bank and now refunded in full by that bank).  Again, 
this was done following the scammers instructions, both believing in doing so they were 
protecting their money.
Mrs Hs husband then transferred some  of his money into her TSB current account. None of 
these credits reached Mrs Hs account  until after shed already sent her own money. 
TSB blocked their subsequent attempt to transfer money out from Mrs Hs account, 
thankfully preventing  further loss. However,  as a result of the scam Mrs H had lost the initial  
payment of £2,300.
TSB doesnt consider it is liable to refund Mrs H the money she lost. In its submissions to 
this service, it says it doesnt  believe it was at fault in carrying  out Mrs Hs instructions to 
make the payment. TSB says the payment was authorised  and there was nothing  about it 
that shouldve  put the bank on notice that Mrs H mightve been at risk of financial harm. It 
comments that customers often  transfer  money across to a current  account (such as Mrs Hs 
account) in the days prior to a considered purchase  or large  payment, and it was normal to 
then make a large  transfer out in such circumstances.  It also said its website  provided  scam 
warnings which should have alerted Mrs H to the risk.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs H was the victim of a
Ref: DRN60961332sophisticated scam. Im satisfied the balance of the evidence shows  Mrs H took the 
necessary steps  to authorise TSB to make the payment from her account.  So, although she 
did not intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment Services  Regulations 
2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs H is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
Ive looked at the activity that took place during the scam  and at the pattern  of account 
usage in the six months  prior, as provided by TSB to our investigator. In accordance with the 
fraudsters instructions, Mrs H transferred £2,300  from her current account to the safe  
account, equating to almost  the entire balance of her account  at that point. I consider  the 
following factors are particularly relevant here:
Her account history  suggests the account was principally being  used  for day-to-day 
expenditure comprising smaller value transactions. It was in regular usage 
throughout the six months prior to the scam.
Despite this account being in regular usage  in that period,  Mrs H had made no 
outbound Faster Payments transfers. So, the scam  payment represented  the first 
such made from Mrs Hs account for a period of at least six months. 
Her account balance  fluctuated relatively little, in the six months  prior to the scam the 
lowest balance was around £1,900, and the highest around £2,500;
There was no credit greater than £100 in the period prior to the scam. I see nothing 
in the account history  to support TSBs  suggestion of a prior transfer of funds in 
anticipation of a large considered payment;
The largest payment  evidenced in the previous  six months was a card payment of 
£300, and that constituted the only payment greater  than £100; 
The initial scam payment of £2,300  in itself accounted for over 97% of Mrs Hs 
account balance.
This payment was being sent to an account that Mrs H had never made  a payment to 
before - a new account payee  that Mrs H had set up only a very short time earlier.
Thinking about  the above, Im persuaded the payment was so significantly unusual and out 
of character for Mrs H that TSB ought to have had concerns  that Mrs H might be at risk of 
financial harm here. Furthermore, this account  activity had the hallmarks  of a typical safe 
Ref: DRN60961333account scam - and so was the type of suspicious  account activity that I consider TSB 
should be on the lookout for. 
TSB comments that it has an obligation to debit its customers accounts in line with the 
account mandate. It says that by allowing the payment to leave the account here, it was 
simply following Mrs Hs payment  instructions.  
I accept there is a balance to be struck  between identifying payments that could potentially 
be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. But for all the reasons Ive 
explained above, I think there  was enough  here that TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have 
identified that Mrs H was potentially at risk of financial harm.  Im persuaded that as a matter 
of good practice,  TSB should have  carried out additional checks  to reassure  itself that this 
was not the case  before  processing  the payment.
Mrs H fell victim to a scam which  is sadly all too prevalent  a safe account  scam. And its a 
type of scam Im satisfied TSB was aware of at the time. In that light,  Ive considered  what  
most likely wouldve happened  had TSB contacted Mrs H about this payment as I believe it 
ought to have done in the circumstances.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mrs H had been given a robust cover-story by the fraudsters or 
instructed to lie to TSB about  the reasons for the payment. And Mrs H doesnt  recall that to 
be the case. This seems supported in the observation that the payment reference  she input 
was simply her own name. Im satisfied that even  the most basic  level of questioning as to 
the purpose and destination of the payment  would  have  meant  Mrs H would have struggled 
to provide TSB with a clear or compelling answer, and the bank would therefore  have  had 
cause for further  and growing concern about the nature of this transaction. 
TSB points  to Mrs Hs later failure to fully recall  some  of the relevant events including  
aspects of the authorisation process.  It suggests this indicates  she might have deliberately 
hidden what was happening, had it questioned her at the time. I dont consider this 
conclusion is supported by the available evidence. The evidence TSB points to here strikes 
me as simply being consistent with her and her husband experiencing the consequences  of 
being the victims  of a traumatic deception and fraud.  
On balance, I find that ultimately  Mrs H would  have told TSB she was transferring her money 
to a safe account upon the instructions of another banks fraud department. Im satisfied 
that such a disclosure ought  reasonably  to have been sufficient for TSB to immediately 
identify that Mrs H was about to fall victim to a typical safe account  scam. As a result, 
I would expect TSB to have acted to break the fraudsters spell and in doing so, to have  
prevented the transfer and subsequent loss. 
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to give full consideration to 
whether the bank also exercised enough care and urgency  in trying to recover the stolen 
funds from the payee  bank  before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. TSB 
has explained that it contacted the receiving bank  promptly  after the scam came to light, but 
was informed that no funds remained to be recovered.
As part of my review  of this matter, I have  also considered whether Mrs H should bear some 
responsibility by way of contributory negligence.  
TSB states  that there were warnings both on its website and on its online banking  site about 
this type of scam. It says Mrs H must  have  failed to take heed of these warnings. It has 
Ref: DRN60961334provided copies  of several possible  warnings that could have been displayed. I can see that 
some of the sample  warnings TSB has provided in its submissions on Mrs Hs complaint 
relate to similar  scams, but others do not. TSB acknowledges she was not a regular user of 
internet banking and has not stated which of the various possible warnings she might  have  
been shown on this occasion.  Im not persuaded TSBs records  conclusively demonstrate  
whether a relevant warning message was or was not displayed.  Mrs H and her husband say 
they have no recollection of seeing any such warning. 
Ive taken TSBs representations  on this point into consideration. But I am not persuaded this 
evidence supports a finding of contributory negligence on the part of Mrs H (or for that matter  
her husband). Even  if I were persuaded there were relevant warnings in place at the time, 
its clear they had no impact on Mrs H and the success of this scam  Mrs H still fell victim to 
it. Given what she and her husband  describe having happened, it rather seems to me that in 
the course of a lengthy phone call with a scammer, and the concern that her money  might  be 
at imminent risk of theft, a text box displayed on the side of the screen might reasonably not 
have had much impact relative to the persuasive  verbal prompting of a determined  fraudster.
More generally, I consider  it clear that up to and including the time of authorising the 
payment, Mrs H was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was 
doing, this being a reasonable  consequence  of the scammers persuasiveness and 
persistence. She thought  she was protecting her account from fraud,  not facilitating it. 
I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, she was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in 
financial matters; here Mrs H was the layperson. In the circumstances I consider TSB should  
fairly and reasonably reimburse Mrs H for the loss she suffered in making this payment 
without any reduction,  together  with interest  to compensate her for being deprived of the 
money she lost. 
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest  award  of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs H has suffered. She has detailed the impact these events had on her and 
the extent to which this impact has endured.  In reaching that finding I am mindful that her 
loss here was ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster  and it was a transaction  she 
authorised. However,  I consider TSB should ultimately have  prevented the payment.
my final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint 
about TSB Bank  plc  and I therefore  require the bank to:
Refund Mrs H the sum of £2,300  (less any sums TSB Bank plc has already  refunded  
or recovered to Mrs H) within  28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of 
my final decision; plus
Pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date of loss to the date of refund1. 
Pay Mrs H £200 for distress and inconvenience.
1 If TSB Bank plc is legally required to deduct  tax from the interest it should send Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate so she can claim it back  from HMRC  if applicable.
Ref: DRN60961335Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6096133