K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Age Partnership  Limited mis-led him about  the commission  it would 
receive for arranging his fixed term annuity,  as he believed this would be paid directly  by the 
provider rather than as a deduction from his pension pot.   
background
Mr S spoke to an adviser from Age Partnership about his pension options. He wanted to take 
his tax-free cash  lump sum and use his remaining pension fund to give him an income in 
retirement. He discussed different options  and then decided to go ahead with a fixed term 
annuity contract,  paying him a quarterly income.
But when Mr S received  the paperwork from the provider he noticed  a paragraph which  said 
hed agreed to pay Age Partnership £5,250.94. He said this sum of money had never been 
mentioned to him. He believed Age Partnership had explained to him it would receive a fee 
directly from the provider and not as a deduction from his pension  fund. He said hed ticked 
a box on his application saying that he hadnt received financial advice and then 2.5%  was 
added to the form in the adviser  remuneration section after hed returned  it. If he had known 
this he may have tried to negotiate a lower  amount.
Age Partnership said that its adviser had explained  to Mr S that it would receive a 
commission and how this would be paid. It believed it had explained this to Mr S both in 
telephone conversations  and within the documentation it provided.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  He 
thought that Age Partnership  had made  Mr S aware  that it would receive commission from 
the provider but this had been taken into account  in calculating the income Mr S would 
receive. He said the commission and fees had been  referred to in documents  Mr S received 
and discussed  in his calls with the adviser.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said there was no mention that the commission would be paid from his pension pot. He 
hadnt been expecting any documents to be emailed  to him, so had missed  these. He feels 
he was mis-led as although he was happy  with the figures quoted for his pension,  he hadnt  
agreed to pay Age Partnership commission in this way and may have tried to negotiate a 
lower figure if he had known it would  come from his funds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels it wasnt made clear to him that the commission  would come  from 
his pension funds,  and that he was told it would be paid by the provider. Ive taken into 
account everything that Mr S has told us about  his understanding of how Age Partnership 
would be paid for its involvement  with his annuity.  Ive also reviewed  all the related 
documentation from both Age Partnership and the provider, and listened to the relevant 
parts of Mr Ss telephone conversations with it about fees and commission.
Ref: DRN62836012Age Partnership provided Mr S with a client agreement  which  said that he hadnt received 
advice or a recommendation from it about  his pension provision.  This set out that, in these 
circumstances, Age Partnership would  receive  a commission from the chosen provider. 
Mr S received quotations for a lifetime annuity, which  he later decided  not to go ahead  with. 
But the quotation for this included the amount of commission  Age Partnership  would receive  
and said this has been allowed for when  calculating the amount of regular income you will 
receive.
Mr S then discussed this with Age Partnership  over the phone.  In the call Age Partnership 
explained that it would be paid by receiving commission  from the chosen  provider;  that this 
would be put in writing and its all factored into quotes that we offer you as well.  The call 
handler explained that this would normally be a percentage  but the commission amount  was 
capped because of the amount of Mr Ss pension pot. He was told: you dont pay this from 
your own bank account and that the income figures he was given had it factored  in. 
Although I appreciate that this information  and discussions  related  to a product that Mr S 
didnt then go ahead with, they do explain how Age Partnership would be paid if Mr S went  
ahead with a provision it had given quotations  for.
Mr S then was provided with the details for a fixed term annuity.  The key facts for this say 
You have agreed  that the following payments will be made  to your intermediary for their 
services in arranging  your plan. Commission payable when your plan starts  - £5,250.94. 
And Mr Ss application form for the plan said: Commission payments- If advice has not been 
given in respect of this purchase your intermediary may have agreed with you to receive  
commission for the services provided. A figure  of 2.5% initial commission  was written  onto 
this form.
Mr S has told us that he doesnt  recall seeing  this when  he completed the form. However, 
even if I assume this figure wasnt included in the application, the amount Mr S ended  up 
paying was in line with what hed already been  quoted as the commission payment.  
Mr S has also told us that he missed some  of the information Age Partnership sent him by 
email. But the client  agreement says that communication from Age Partnership would 
predominantly be by telephone, but also in writing and by email. Businesses  are allowed to 
communicate with customers in different ways and email is one of them. I cant hold Age 
Partnership responsible  for Mr S not reading some  of the documents that were  sent to him. 
And in any case I think the other documentation  he did receive and the information he was 
given over the phone shouldve  given  him enough  explanation of the level of commission  
and how Age Partnership would be paid. 
Looking over everything, I think it was made  clear  to Mr S that Age Partnership would 
receive a commission payment from the provider and how much this would be. I accept that 
it may not have been explicitly set out that Mr S would be paying this commission out of his 
pension fund. But Mr S was told that the commission  would  be accounted for in the level of 
income the provider  was offering him. And Mr S has told us that he was happy  with these 
figures  that was why he decided to go ahead with this product. He didnt have to pay 
anything in addition  and his quoted level of income  wasnt reduced.
Ref: DRN62836013Taking everything into account,  I dont think Age Partnership mis-led Mr S about the 
commission it would receive if he chose to go ahead with the fixed term annuity  it had 
presented to him.
my decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6283601