K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly  lent to him/her.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Uncle Buck  provided  to Mr B on 16 August 
2018. The loan was for £100 and was to be repaid  in four instalments with the highest 
repayment being £39.03.  The loan has not been repaid and remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and thought the loan should  not have been given to    
Mr B. They said when  Uncle Buck did the credit check, it should have seen that Mr B was 
paying for several other  short-term loans with other providers. Uncle Buck  disagreed and so 
the complaint  has now been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN63587702Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for the loan would most likely have 
shown that Mr B was having problems managing his money. I say this because  the credit 
search that Uncle Buck carried out and provided us, showed that Mr B had several other  
outstanding short-term loans when he applied for the loan from Uncle Buck.  I can see from 
the credit  check provided that Mr B had three  active loans when he applied for his loan from 
Uncle Buck.  The credit  check also shows that Mr B had taken out 13 short-term loans in the 
last six months. I think Uncle Buck would have seen these in its credit check. 
Taking everything in to consideration,  I think Uncle Buck should have realised that it was 
unlikely that Mr B would  be able to sustainably repay his loan or any subsequent loans. And 
so I dont think Uncle Buck should have approved it. So Im upholding the complaint about 
the loan and Uncle Buck should put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr Bs credit  file.
If Mr B still owes Uncle Buck any of the principal balance he borrowed on his loan
Uncle Buck  should  remove all the interest  and charges  applied  to the outstanding balance.
Uncle Buck  should  then re-work the account as if all payments made  by Mr B went  to 
towards the principal.  But importantly, Uncle  Buck needs to make  sure that Mr B doesnt 
repay more  than the principal amount borrowed.
If after doing this Mr B hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed Uncle Buck  can deduct this
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr B has already paid enough to repay the
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple interest from the
date of payment  to the date of settlement.
And if Uncle Buck no longer owns this debt,  and it wants  to make a deduction  due to the
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr B.
Ref: DRN63587703 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6358770