K820x#14complaint
Mrs S had a motor insurance  policy with Calpe Insurance Company Limited in 2018. She 
and her husband, Mr Z - a named driver  on the policy - complain that it delayed in assisting 
Mrs S after she was involved  in an accident.   
background
Another vehicle  hit the rear of Mrs Ss parked car on 6 July 2018  whilst she was sitting  in it. 
There was an independent witness to the incident, and the other  driver accepted blame at 
the scene. He said he would pay for the damage  hed caused  rather than have a claim on 
his policy. Later, he stopped co-operating,  so Mrs S and Mr Z had to consider the available 
options. Mrs S didnt want to make  a claim on her policy, partly because  the accident  wasnt 
her fault,  and partly because the policy had an all sections policy excess of £3,000.   
On 26 July 2018 Calpe got an email from a firm of solicitors (firm W) saying Mrs S had 
instructed it to act for her. Firm W told Calpe about the incident and said Mrs S wasnt 
making a claim on the policy, but reserved the right to do so in the future. Firm W asked 
Calpe to inform  it of any claim made by the other driver. Just a few minutes later, Mrs S 
called Calpe  to inform it about the incident. Calpes  advisor J reminded her about  the policy 
excess and checked  whether she was going to claim on her policy. Mrs S said she wasnt.  
The next day, Calpe asked Mrs S to provide witness details.  It wrote  to her on 30 July 2018 
and asked her to send  it a number of documents. Later that day, Calpe  reviewed the details 
it had on the file. It noted that Mrs S didnt  want to make a claim on her policy.  An advisor  
told Mrs S, Calpes  file would be closed. But she still put Mrs Ss allegations  to the other 
drivers insurer  by email. She said if it replied shed forward the response to Mrs S. 
Mrs S made a complaint on 24 August 2018  about  Calpes delays and lack of help. Calpe 
said as Mrs S hadnt made a claim on her policy, there was no reason for it to be involved. It 
said it had contacted the other drivers insurer as a courtesy to her. It said she could make  a 
claim on her policy if the damage  to her car cost more than the policy  excess. It also said 
that as firm W was representing Mrs S, she should contact it about progress.
Mrs S and Mr Z werent happy with Calpes response, so one of our senior  investigators  
reviewed what had happened. In his view, as Mrs S hadnt claimed on the policy,  Calpe 
wasnt obliged to do anything to assist her. Mr Z disputed that firm W had told Calpe about 
the incident, or that Mrs S had spoken to advisor J, as Calpe claimed. Mr Z insisted that 
Calpe was obliged  to pursue the other drivers insurer once Mrs S reported the accident to it. 
He said there was no need for her to make a claim on her policy first, because  the accident 
wasnt her fault. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN60514542Mrs S didnt want to make  a claim  on the policy. That was clear from firm Ws email  to Calpe 
in July 2018, and Mrs S confirmed it in a call to Calpe around that time. Mr Z told our 
investigator in October 2018 that was because she didnt want  to pay the policy  excess. 
I think some  confusion arose between the parties after Mrs S called Calpe in July 2018.
From what  Mr Z has said, it seems  Mrs S thought if she simply reported the accident to 
Calpe, shed be entitled to help from it. It seems  neither Mrs S nor Mr Z thought  she had to 
make a claim on the policy for Calpe to pursue the other drivers  insurer. I think  further  
confusion arose when Calpe asked Mrs S for witness details and documents.  I think  Mrs S 
and Mr Z would have seen that as Calpe starting  to assist Mrs S with the situation   even 
though she hadnt made  a claim on the policy.
We asked Calpe to clarify  why it started  to gather details about the incident when it knew 
Mrs S wasnt  going to make a claim on her policy. Calpe didnt respond to the query, but I 
assume it was in case the other  driver made  a claim on it. I think that caused  confusion,  but 
in my view,  Calpe clarified the issue fairly quickly. Calpes notes show  that an advisor  told 
Mrs S on 30 July 2018 that as she wasnt making  a claim, Calpe would close  its file. 
Calpe contacted the other drivers insurer at that point  on Mrs Ss behalf regardless. Calpe 
says that was a courtesy or a gesture of goodwill, but I dont think  Mrs S and Mr Z took it that 
way. The file notes  show that during August 2018, Mr Z chased  Calpe  for progress updates. 
In response, Calpe called  the other drivers insurer to check if the other driver had contacted 
it. Again,  it says it did that as a courtesy. But I think Mr Z thought  Calpe was dealing  with the 
incident on Mrs Ss behalf  but that it wasnt doing  enough.
I dont think there was any reason for Calpe to assist Mrs S when she hadnt made a claim 
on the policy. But I can see why Mrs S and Mr Z thought  the damage to their car should  be 
paid for by the other insurer.  It was open to Mrs S to make a claim on the other drivers 
insurance policy. She could have  contacted  the other insurer directly to do that. But instead,  
Mrs S and Mr Z thought  Calpe should pursue a claim on the other  drivers policy.  
I think it was reasonable  for Calpe to say that the policy didnt cover Mrs S in that situation. I 
dont think theres anything in the policy to the contrary. It isnt usual for an insurer  to pursue 
another drivers insurer  unless a policy holder has made a claim on their own policy.  Mr Z 
says he got advice to the contrary from the Motor  Insurers  Bureau, but I havent seen any 
evidence of it. 
Ive noted all the comments Mrs S and Mr Z have made. Where theres a dispute about  an 
issue, Ive relied on the available  evidence.  Mr Z says Mrs S was never  referred to firm W. 
He says firm W didnt inform Calpe  about  the incident. But theres evidence on the file that 
shows firm W emailed  Calpe about the incident on Mrs Ss behalf before Mrs S first called 
Calpe. Firm W said it had been instructed by Mrs S, and Calpe had no reason to doubt  it. 
Mr Z says neither he nor Mrs S spoke to Calpes  advisor J. But the file notes show that 
advisor J dealt with the first call Mrs S made to Calpe about  the incident.  It isnt clear why he 
didnt tell Mrs S that firm W had already contacted Calpe.  But as firm Ws email was only 
received a few minutes before Mrs Ss call, that might explain it. 
Mr Z says Calpe told Mrs S to make  a claim on her policy  and pay the policy  excess. From 
the file notes, it looks as though Calpe only asked Mrs S whether she wanted to claim on her 
policy. Mrs S said no to that question. Later  in the call, the advisor said he was obliged  to 
remind her that shed be liable for any costs incurred in settling any claim made  by the other 
Ref: DRN60514543driver. I think that reminder  may have been  a standard part of a script the advisor  had to 
deliver. Or it may have been prompted by Mrs S saying the other driver wasnt  co-operating 
 perhaps the advisor thought he may try to claim on her policy. Either way, I havent seen 
anything to show the advisor  did anything  wrong  in explaining the facts.    
Although I think Calpe may inadvertently  have  caused some confusion  for a short time, I 
dont think that disadvantaged Mrs S or Mr Z. In fact, by putting  the allegations to the other 
insurer Calpe provided help that it wasnt required to give. I dont think Mrs S and Mr Z can 
show that Calpe did anything wrong in not assisting them  more  to pursue the claim against 
the other driver. So Im not going to uphold their complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6051454