K822xcomplaint
Ms N complains about poor service from Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) in 
connection with the repayment of her credit  card debt.
background 
Ms N has a credit card account with Barclaycard and has had difficulty repaying what she 
owes on the account.
Barclaycard tried to help by refunding some interest  and charges, but its information  was 
confusing so Ms N wasnt clear on how much she would be paying each month. She also 
wanted to alter her payment date,  so that she could  try to make sure she had enough money  
available to cover  her repayments.
 
Our investigator found that when Ms N first experienced financial difficulty  in 2017, 
Barclaycard froze interest  and charges  until July 2018, when Ms N started using her account 
again.
Barclaycard refunded interest and charges in September 2018. It also reduced the interest 
rate on the account in November 2018  and froze interest and charges for thirty days.
The investigator thought Barclaycard had acted fairly  in trying to help Ms N repay what  she 
owed.
But the investigator found that when Ms N wanted  to set up a standing order, Barclaycard 
didnt take into account that interest had been frozen. So the amount of the standing  order  
wasnt enough to cover Ms Ns minimum payments once interest  was reinstated.  
Barclaycard changed the minimum repayment so that the standing order was enough to 
cover the amount for February 2019.  
The investigator said Barclaycard should  also pay £50 to Ms N for the inconvenience 
caused, which Barclaycard agreed to pay.
Ms N asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ms N has strong  views about  how she has been  treated by Barclaycard. 
Shes suggested that the amount she owes should  be written off. I can understand why she 
might take that view,  but I have to keep in mind  that shes had the use of the available  credit.  
And from what Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest that its not reasonable for Ms N to repay 
what she owes.
So Ive thought about whether Barclaycard has treated Ms N positively and sympathetically 
in trying to help her manage her debt while  shes been experiencing financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN69862212I can see that its frozen interest on the account  on different occasions, and also refunded  
some interest and charges. It also altered the billing and payment date for Ms Ns account to 
minimise the risk of charges being  made on her third party account.
Overall, from what Ive seen, I think Barclaycard has done what  it can to try to help Ms N. 
But I agree  that it shouldve  realised  that the standing order it arranged at the end of 
November 2018  wouldnt be enough  to cover  Ms Ns minimum repayments once interest 
was reinstated  on the account.  
Barclaycard adjusted the minimum repayment  for February 2019  and agreed to pay £50, 
which I consider reasonable. 
Barclaycard has also said that going  forwards Ms Ns standing order  will be enough to cover  
her monthly minimum repayment.  Ms N may need  to review the amount of the standing  
order if the balance  on her account increases. 
Im satisfied that Barclaycard should pay £50 to Ms N, but Im not persuaded that it needs  to 
do anything else.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard)  should  pay £50 to Ms N.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6986221