K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (M&S Bank) didnt refund 
charges made for her VISA application.
background
On 11 March 2019 Ms M applied for a VISA through a site that she thought was the official 
application site. She paid for the application  using her M&S Bank credit card and was 
charged $99. But Ms M understood that she should only have been charged  $14 for the 
VISA so the next day she contacted M&S Bank  to dispute the transaction and ask them to 
refund the difference.
M&S Bank refused to apply a chargeback as they said Ms M had received the service shed 
applied for. So Ms M referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator agreed with her. She thought  M&S Bank should have refunded the fee as 
she had been  clear on the phone call that she disputed the amount charged and had given 
enough information to M&S Bank  to enable them to generate a chargeback. She thought it 
was likely that Ms M had been the victim  of a popular scam but as shed reported the issue 
so quickly it would have  been reasonable for M&S  Bank to have disputed  the transaction for 
her. She therefore thought M&S  Bank should  refund the additional $85 Ms M had been  
charged and that they should pay her an additional £25 to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience  that shed experienced.
M&S Bank didnt agree with the adjudicator. They said that they thought it was likely the fee 
charged on top of the VISA application was to check it and that shed therefore received the 
service shed applied  for. They said they could not simply accept a chargeback or a claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75) for breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation as the supplier would point to their terms and conditions  which  they 
thought would probably include an explanation that the service being  paid for was a 
checking service and a VISA application. So M&S  Bank asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint M&S  Bank but I agree  with the adjudicators  view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a chargeback or section 75 claim. I take these into account  when  I think  about 
Ref: DRN62471832whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the same view as, for 
example, a court might reach if Ms M made  a claim through them for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a 
chargeback request to the chargeback scheme provider, or a section  75 claim. This section 
of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,  the borrower under a 
credit agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as against the supplier if 
there's either  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im persuaded on balance  that Ms M was attempting to pay for her VISA application and 
wasnt signing up for a VISA checking  service. I say that because:
I can see that she complained very quickly and was evidently  surprised  to be charged  
more than the $14 VISA fee;
it wasnt a complicated VISA application  form. There were nine very straight forward 
questions such as Do you seek to engage  in terrorist activities . I think  its most likely 
Ms M would not have  needed a checking  service to clarify  her answers to these 
questions.
In those circumstances I think it would have been  fair for M&S Bank to have challenged the 
charge and made a chargeback request as I think its clear the service was misrepresented  
to Ms M. This can no longer be done as the time limit for making such  an application has 
been exceeded.
In those circumstances I think it would be reasonable for M&S Bank to refund  the $85 
service charge Ms M was asked to pay and to pay her some  compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  shes experienced.  In these particular circumstances I would agree that 
£25 seems fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc to refund  the $85 service  charge and pay Ms M £25 to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6247183