K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold them four payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
Background
In 1998, Halifax  sold Mr and Mrs C a single premium PPI policy,  the cost of which  was 
added to a jointly held unsecured loan they were  arranging,  and which attracted interest. In 
1999, 2000 and 2001 Halifax sold Mr and Mrs C three further  PPI policies, all paid for by 
regular premiums. All four policies protected the repayments on their joint secured loans if, 
among other things,  Mr C was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt want PPI and that it must have been added without their 
knowledge. Unfortunately,  not all of the paperwork from each sales still available. Thats not 
surprising given, for example, that the first sale took place more  than 20 years  ago. That 
said, Ive no reason to believe from what Ive seen  that they werent told about  the PPI, or 
that it was optional, before it was added. 
The evidence from the other sales includes copies of the loan agreements Mr and Mrs C 
signed in 1999, 2000 and 2001.  These indicate  there was a discussion between Halifaxs  
advisers and Mr and Mrs C regarding PPI and that they decided to go ahead  with it, knowing 
they didnt have to. 
So, overall, Ive seen nothing to indicate  Mr and Mrs C didnt agree to take PPI on all four 
occasions, knowing it was separate to the loans and that it was optional.
I think Halifax likely recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. That meant Halifax needed to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what  steps it took, I think  
the PPI it recommended  was right for them in any case. 
For example, Im satisfied  Mr C was eligible for the cover and cant see that he was affected 
by the PPIs main  exclusions and limitations,  such as those relating to claims for pre-existing 
medical conditions.  
I also havent seen  anything to suggest  Mr and Mrs C would have found the premiums 
unaffordable. And the PPI sold in 1999,  2000  and 2001 was flexible in that they could have 
cancelled it at any time at no extra cost. The same  cant be said of the single premium PPI 
sold in 1998 but theres  little evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs C particularly wanted or 
needed such flexibility at that time. 
Ref: DRN61785232Mr C may well have  received generous sick pay and/or redundancy pay from his employer 
as Mr and Mrs C argue. But the PPI benefits  would have paid out on top of that pay and for 
up to 12 months per unemployment claim and up to 60 months per disability claim (limited  to 
up to 10 months per unemployment claim and 12 months per disability claim  under  the PPI 
bought in 2001). Although  they say they had some  savings  and investments, the PPI would 
have allowed them to retain those other means or use them  towards covering their other 
daily living  expenses if Mr C wasnt working.
Given the loans  Mr and Mrs C took in 1999,  2000 and 2001 were secured against  their home 
 and considering the potentially serious  consequences of them defaulting on their 
repayments  I think  theyd have valued the extra security the PPI provided. 
Ive thought about the life and critical illness  cover  Mr and Mrs C have referred to but that 
would have offered  a single lump sum benefit on the death of the insured or on them being 
diagnosed with a specified illness. The PPI, on the other hand, provided a regular monthly 
benefit in the event  of disablement or unemployment. So Im satisfied  the policies covered 
different things.
If Mr and Mrs C already  had a PPI policy in place to cover their main mortgage then its likely 
that policy would have covered the related mortgage repayments and not the additional loan 
repayments. So it was appropriate for them to have separate cover  in place to protect the 
extra borrowing. 
Halifax also needed to ensure that it gave Mr and Mrs C enough information about the PPI 
policies for them to decide for themselves if they were right.  Its possible that the information 
it gave them could have  been better than it was. But, for much the same  reasons that I dont 
think the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think better information would have changed  
their minds  about taking  it. I think they would still have thought  the PPI offered them  useful 
cover at an affordable  cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because  of how 
Halifax sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6178523