K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard)  allowed her husband to 
open an account in their names without her knowledge or permission, and about  related 
issues.
background
After Mrs M divorced her husband, she discovered  a Barclaycard with both their names  on it. 
She says she had no previous knowledge of that account and had not consented to it being 
opened. She took the card to a local branch of Barclays,  where she was told that the credit 
limit was £2,000.  She says she then used  the card to spend £2,000  on legal fees. 
Afterwards, she took the card to another branch, where it was confiscated from her by a 
member of staff, who told her that the card was not hers. (She complained about the 
confiscation, and that complaint is being  dealt with separately as a complaint against 
Barclays, rather than against Barclaycard,  as they are administered separately.)
Mrs Ms complaint about Barclaycard is mainly  that the account was opened without her 
authority. But she also says that after being  told that the account had been closed in 2013, 
she learned that it actually  remained open  until 2015. So she complains  that the account 
was not closed when it was supposed to be, and that she had been misinformed. Finally, 
she made a subject access request (SAR) about  the account, and that Barclaycard sent the 
response to the wrong address and thereby compromised her privacy.
Barclaycard did not accept that the account had been opened without authority. It said it had 
sent its response to the SAR to the address it had on file for Mrs M at the time. In its final 
response letter, it said the account  had been  closed in 2015. Being dissatisfied with 
Barclaycards response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our Service.
Barclaycard provided  our Service with a copy of the application form for the account, which it 
said had Mrs Ms signature on it. She denied  it is her signature,  but our adjudicator  thought 
that it was genuine. The adjudicator was reinforced  in her opinion  by the fact that 
Barclaycards contact  notes mentioned a phone call in which  Mrs M had said that she used 
to sign paperwork without  reading it  although Mrs M denies saying that. The adjudicator 
also pointed out that Mrs Ms email  address  was added to the account, which didnt seem 
like something her husband would have done  if he had wanted to conceal the account from 
her. Account  statements  were sent to her home address. So she said there  was no evidence  
that the account had been  opened  fraudulently  or without proper authority. But even if it had 
been, there had been no transactions on the account (except  for the £2,000 payment which  
Mrs M had admitted making), and so Mrs M had incurred no loss. In fact, Mr M had raised a 
chargeback for that payment, which he had thought was a fraudulent  payment,  and the 
chargeback had been upheld. Barclaycard  had written off the £2,000,  so Mrs M had never 
been asked to repay it. So she had in effect  been  given £2,000 by Barclaycard.
The adjudicator found that the account had been  closed for use in December 2013, but it 
had remained open for administrative purposes  until March  2015 while  Barclaycard decided  
what to do about  the £2,000. She thought  that was sufficient explanation for the two dates.
The adjudicator said that Barclaycards  response  to the SAR had been sent to the correct 
address, and there was no evidence that it had been intercepted  by anyone else.  It had in 
fact not been delivered successfully, so it had been sent to a local branch instead, where 
Mrs M had collected it. So the adjudicator did not uphold any part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63544722Mrs M did not accept that opinion. She said other payments had been made on the card,  
and they had not been made by her. She said she had no longer been  living  at the address 
the SAR response  was sent to, having moved out before the divorce. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The Barclaycard was for a business account in the name of a partnership consisting of Mr 
and Mrs M. That is why the card had her name on it, but it wasnt her account;  it was the 
partnerships account, and the card had been issued  to her husband. Her husbands name, 
as the cardholder, appears on the card immediately  below the partnerships name. It wasnt 
her card. Thats why, when her husband reported the £2,000  payment  she made to her 
solicitor, it was refunded  as a fraudulent payment. It had not been  made  by the cardholder.
I accept Barclaycards  explanation for the two different dates that have been given, at 
different times, as account closure  dates. Mrs M has criticised  Barclaycard for the length of 
time it took Barclaycard to close the account, but as this delay appears to have been caused 
entirely by her unauthorised use of her ex-husbands  card,  and she benefited  from 
Barclaycards eventual  decision  not to hold her liable  for the debt, I certainly dont think  it 
would be fair or reasonable to uphold a complaint about that. She has had the benefit of a 
windfall of £2,000.
The statements  show  no other transactions on the account. Mrs M thinks  that there have 
been, but this is because  she mistook  the balance carried  forward  from each previous 
statement for a new transaction. The default  fees which were charged were  indeed new 
transactions, but these are not purchases. However,  the default fees dont matter, because  
Barclaycard is not holding  Mrs M liable for them. (Mr M is not being  held liable either.)  So 
Mrs M has incurred  no financial  loss.
It therefore isnt really necessary for me to consider whether the account was opened 
without Mrs Ms authority, since the opening  and use of the account has caused her no loss, 
and any inconvenience  is outweighed by what amounts to a gift of £2,000 from Barclaycard. 
But for the sake of completeness, I agree with our adjudicator that it is likely that Mrs M did 
sign the application form for the account in 2011, and that she has since forgotten it. The 
signature looks like hers, but since Im not a handwriting expert I will ignore that. But I can 
simply think of no reason why her husband would want  to conceal the account from her, 
especially as he never used it. It is not in dispute that they ran a business together at the 
time, so there is nothing  suspicious  about having a credit card account  in the name  of their 
partnership. Although Mrs M denies  telling Barclaycard that she signed papers without 
reading them, I note that she told our adjudicator  that during the marriage she left all 
financial matters to her husband. So on balance, it seems likely that the account  was opened 
properly.
The statements  were sent to the wrong  address (a mis-spelling  of the correct address). 
I dont know if they were delivered  or not. However,  that does not change my mind. There  is 
no evidence of fraud, and no evidence of loss to Mrs M (quite the opposite).
Ref: DRN63544723(There is also no evidence  of any loss to Mr M either. As this part of this complaint is really  
the partnerships  complaint,  rather  than a complaint by Mrs M in her own right, I would 
normally have required the consent  of both partners  Mr and Mrs M  to consider it. But in 
the circumstances of this case, I think I can consider this complaint with only Mrs Ms 
consent, as her ex-husband is not affected by the issues  raised.)
There are no other Barclaycard accounts  associated with Mrs M.
That just leaves the SARs. Barclaycards response to the first SAR, in 2014, was not sent to 
her old address, but to her current one  the one she gave us when  she brought this 
complaint. It was not delivered, and so it was returned to a local branch, where  it was 
collected by Mrs M. A second SAR was made  in 2016. Barclays sent its response to the 
same address, where  it was delivered  and signed for. There is no evidence that either of 
them was sent to the wrong address, or that anyone intercepted  them.
my final decision
So for the reasons given above,  my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6354472