K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 2004 at the same  time as taking a credit card. He says he was 
sold the PPI by a letter  he received in the post.  He applied for the card and PPI by post.
Mr W was employed  at the time as a salesman and had been there for 13 years. From what 
he has said, Mr W was entitled to statutory  sick pay and redundancy pay. He has told us he 
didnt have any other means  with which to pay his credit card if he couldnt work. From what 
he has told us, Mr W was in good health  at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment, as well as life cover,  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ws credit card balance in the 
event of a successful claim. The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear the card balance  
on death. The policy at the time cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The 
premium would continue  to have to be paid during  a successful claim and did attract interest.
Barclays has sent us evidence to show that the credit card account closed in 2005.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ws representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ws representatives  believe  there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Barclays should have told Mr W about 
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr W and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators 
Ref: DRN60939672opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN60939673The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ws case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Barclays gave Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN60939674Barclays had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. The credit  card application form 
listed the PPI within  an OPTIONAL BENEFITS section  with boxes to tick to say either  
Yes, I want  cover or No, I do not require  cover. On Mr Ws form, which he signed, the 
Yes box is ticked   and I think he wouldve known that if he didnt want PPI the No box 
couldve been ticked instead. Taking everything into account, I think its more  likely Mr W 
knew the policy was optional and agreed  to take it without undue pressure.
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Mr W disagrees and says Barclays 
told him having the PPI was a good idea. But I havent seen anything else to suggest that 
Barclays said the PPI was a good idea for Mr W in his circumstances or gave him a personal 
recommendation for it. Nothing on Mr Ws application form says or suggests this. Bearing in 
mind that Mr W applied  for the card and PPI by post using this form - and taking into account 
what he has said about receiving the form through the post - Im not persuaded that Barclays  
discussed the PPIs suitability  for Mr W with him or provided him with advice during the sale.
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr W. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr W to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to his attention  and highlighting  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  
limitations and exclusions.
the information
Barclays has provided us with Mr Ws application form and credit agreement   showing that 
PPI had been selected. It has also referred  us to a policy summary which I accept, on a 
balance of probabilities, applied to policies like Mr Ws.
Looking at the information provided to Mr W at the time, I dont think  Barclays  gave Mr W the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI as providing 
cover against unemployment,  accident,  sickness and death. The information provided would 
have given Mr W a broad sense of what the policy covered. I think  its unlikely Mr W would 
have agreed to take it without having  at least a broad understanding  of the cover  it provided 
 i.e. life, accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover. And I think its unlikely he wouldve 
thought it was free.
But it was Barclays responsibility  to draw to Mr Ws attention the important information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr W, including  the need to maintain premiums  during  a claim 
or that payments would attract interest. In addition, I cant see that Barclays adequately drew  
to his attention  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing his 
Ref: DRN60939675attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either.
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken the policy,  had Barclays done things  properly.  
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given  
the significant failings identified above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr W had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr W chose  to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr W thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr W has suffered  any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr W ought reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
Ref: DRN60939676accept that Barclays  didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while Mr W didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mr W knew  about before the 
policy start date or for which he got advice or treatment from a medical practitioner in the 
12 months before the policy start date. 
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W wasnt  a 
permanent employee.
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr W be stopped  from doing  his 
own job or any paid work his experience,  education  or training reasonably  qualified  him 
to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  was not as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  Mr W wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have  any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I think he still had some  good reasons to 
take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr W 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he were  not only stopped from doing 
his own job but also stopped from doing  any job the insurer thought  he might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  to do. And I accept it may have 
given him pause  for thought  although  given  Mr Ws circumstances, on balance I think  he 
still would  have been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mr W would  still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to what he 
thought he was getting and I think the policy couldve  provided  a useful benefit in a difficult  
time, notwithstanding his statutory  sick pay and redundancy pay (and bearing  in mind his 
lack of other means). And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he 
would have taken  the policy in any event.  
Ref: DRN60939677Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr W would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr W would not have taken the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Barclays should pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr W thinks Barclays misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclays statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr W, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr W and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
Ref: DRN60939678compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6093967