K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains Barclays  Bank  UK PLC made a number of mistakes when it moved joint 
accounts he held with others to its Smart  Investor platform  and that these caused himself,  
his partner (Ms S) and the other  account holders a lot of distress.  He also complained  hed 
incurred costs selling the investments so that he could move  to another platform.
background 
Mr W says he had nine accounts with Barclays Stockbrokers that were moved by Barclays to 
its Smart  Investor  platform  in August  2017. He says that following the move  three  of these 
accounts were missing and that the details of the others were all jumbled up. He says that 
Ms S had to spend a significant amount of time to work out what  was going on  something 
Barclays should have  done  and that he had panic  attacks amongst other things as a result. 
Mr W ended  up selling  his investments and then moving to another  platform. This meant  that 
Mr W incurred  costs. Mr W complained  to Barclays.
Barclays investigated Mr Ws complaint and accepted that it had made  a number of mistakes 
transferring the accounts in question. Barclays offered Mr W £500 in compensation. In 
addition, Barclays offered to refund Mr W some of the fees hed incurred as he hadnt been 
charged the fee for selling online which he should have been. Mr W wasnt  happy with this 
and so complained to us. He thought the compensation  was inadequate given the distress 
caused and he also said that Barclays hadnt compensated him for the costs  hed incurred  
when he ended up selling his investments.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ws complaint. She agreed  that Barclays had made a 
number of mistakes transferring the accounts  in question and thought the impact on Mr W 
and Ms S meant an award of £750  was more  appropriate. Our investigator didnt, however, 
think that Barclays should have to compensate Mr W for the costs hed incurred when he 
ended up selling his investments because  he could have transferred his investment  to 
another platform without  selling  them. Barclays agreed to the additional compensation 
recommended. Mr W disagreed with our investigators thoughts saying that the account  
details were so jumbled up that he couldnt  have transferred  his investments without selling 
them. He also thought that the impact had been far more  substantial.  So I was asked to look 
into this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays not only made a lot of mistakes when transferring the joint accounts Mr W held with 
others, but it also didnt  handle  Mr Ws complaint well. He returned from several months 
abroad to find a large amount of correspondence about his accounts which  was so confusing 
his partner  who helped with his accounts   couldnt work out what had happened to the 
underlying investments.
Ive listened to a number  of calls between  Mr W, Ms S and Barclays  about the accounts in 
question. Its clear from the initial call that Mr W and Ms S couldnt understand what had 
happened to the accounts,  and that the large  amount of correspondence theyd received 
hadnt helped.  That call is well humoured. But its clear that Mr W and Ms S become more 
and more frustrated  with Barclays when they dont get a response  and that they then have 
Ref: DRN62783602real concerns that money  has gone  missing. So I can see that this would have  been  a very 
worrying period  for Mr W, and that Ms S spent a lot of unnecessary  time trying  to work out 
what had gone  on. I do, however, think that the award our investigator recommended, which 
Barclays has accepted,  is more than reasonable. Im, therefore, going to require  Barclays to 
pay Mr W and Ms S £750  as compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  caused. Ive 
not considered  the impact that Barclays actions might have had on the other account 
holders in part because Barclays has agreed  that if they were to complain that it would look 
at those complaints  separately. For this reason, Ive also looked at this complaint as if it was 
a joint complaint from Mr W and Ms S alone.
Mr W and Ms S complained to Barclays at the end of October 2017. Approximately two 
weeks later,  having  made little progress, they decided to sell their investments with a view to 
transferring to another platform after Christmas. Our investigator  is right that Mr W and Ms S 
could have transferred  the accounts without  selling the investments. I can also understand 
why Mr W and Ms S say that this would have been difficult  given  that the accounts were all 
jumbled up. But I dont think, given  that Mr W and his partner werent  planning on moving to 
another platform for at least another month, that it would be fair to say that Barclays should  
be responsible  for the consequences. Barclays had only been  investigating for a couple of 
weeks, and it looks like the accounts that Mr W and Ms S were worried had gone missing 
hadnt in fact gone missing. So I agree that the offer Barclays has made, namely to refund 
the difference between the costs  Mr W and Ms S incurred and the costs  they should  have 
incurred had they been charged the costs  for trading online,  is a fair and reasonable one. In 
other words, I agree a refund of £57 in trading fees is a reasonable offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Barclays Bank UK plc to pay Mr W and Ms S £750 in 
compensation and to refund £57 in trading fees.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6278360