K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about Clydesdale Bank Plcs (operating  as Yorkshire Bank) closure 
of their current account. Mr M also complains about  the closure of his savings account. 
background
Mr and Mrs M had a current  account with Yorkshire Bank and Mr M also had a savings 
account. 
In 2018 Mr M raised several complaints with Yorkshire Bank  about  various  issues  relating to 
his accounts.  
In June 2018 Yorkshire Bank wrote to Mr and Mrs M telling  them it was closing their current 
account in two months time. Six days later Yorkshire Bank  wrote  to Mr M stating it would 
also be closing his savings account.
Mr M was unhappy and came to our service seeking £500 compensation. After  speaking 
with Mr M, we understood his and Mrs Ms complaints to be:
1.Yorkshire Bank closed  their joint account  and didnt explain why.
2.Yorkshire Bank told him during a telephone call it wouldnt be closing his savings 
account. And he didnt  receive the letter giving him notice his savings account would 
close.
3.Yorkshire Bank failed  to pay a direct debit that was due to go out of the joint account 
during the notice  period.
4.Yorkshire Bank cancelled one of the direct  debits during the notice period without 
permission.
5.Mr Ms bank  card didnt work  during  the notice period.
6.Mr M was unhappy with the service Yorkshire Bank  provided  during the notice  
period. In particular,  he asked  to be put through to a specific operations manager and 
Yorkshire Bank refused.
Yorkshire Bank allowed us to look into his complaints directly. Yorkshire Bank  told us it 
closed both accounts in line with the terms and conditions. It said it wouldnt cancel a direct 
debit without permission  and the reason a direct  debit failed during the notice period was 
because there wasnt  enough  money in the account.  Yorkshire Bank wasnt  aware of any 
problems with Mr Ms accounts. It also told us there were multiple times when the 
relationship between Yorkshire  Bank  and Mr M had broken down. Because of this, its 
service centre had taken  the decision not to engage  with Mr M but to pass him to the 
complaints department. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaints. They  remained unhappy so the 
matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Ref: DRN65189012Im aware Mr M has raised a number of concerns. But this decision only looks  at the issues 
our service  agreed an ombudsman would  look into.
bank card issues
Mr M told us his bank card didnt work during his notice period. When  I reviewed 
Yorkshire Banks call notes, I saw he contacted it a week before his account  was closed, 
about his card not working. The call notes suggest  Mr M ended this call whilst 
Yorkshire Bank were  still looking into the problem. The call handler logged that no payments 
had been declined so, they thought  the problem might be caused by damage  to the card 
chip. The call notes said to let Mr M know if he called back.  
So, the evidence  suggests there was a problem with Mr Ms card towards the end of his 
notice period. But I think its unlikely this was a problem throughout his notice period as Mr M 
suggested. This is because I can see evidence of card use on the accounts and I also think 
hed have raised it sooner as I can see he was in regular contact.
Given this, Ive then thought  about what Yorkshire Bank did when it was aware  of the card 
problem. Theres no evidence to suggest the card was replaced.  But I wouldnt expect 
Yorkshire Bank to do this without agreeing it with Mr M first. This is because sudden  
unexpected cancellation of the card could cause  difficulties with scheduled payments, for 
example. And the call notes indicate Mr M ended the call before the matter  was dealt with. 
Theres also no evidence Mr M called them back about this issue.  So, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable Yorkshire Bank took no further action and I dont think it did anything wrong.
direct debit issues
Mr and Mrs M complained that Yorkshire Bank cancelled one direct debit and failed to pay 
another. Yorkshire Bank  denied  this. We asked Mr M for more detail about  which  payments 
didnt work  but he didnt  provide this. 
When reviewing the account  statements, I noted  one failed  direct  debit and one failed 
standing order in this time. For both,  there  wasnt enough money  to make the payment. I can 
see from the account terms and conditions that Mr and Mrs M had a responsibility to make  
sure there was enough money to cover their payments. So, I dont think Yorkshire Bank  did 
anything wrong  here.
I can also see there were two direct debits  cancelled within  the notice period. Yorkshire Bank  
has shown us printouts  of their computer systems for one of these which  shows  it didnt 
cancel this payment.  The other direct debit is no longer  showing on Yorkshire Banks  
computer systems, so I cant see when or how it was cancelled.  But Yorkshire Bank told us it 
didnt cancel this. And Mr M hasnt  specified  that this was the direct debit he was referring  to. 
For these reasons, I dont  think  the evidence suggests this payment was cancelled by 
Yorkshire Bank. 
closure of the accounts
I asked Yorkshire Bank for any call recordings made  during the notice period but it was 
unable to locate  these. Yorkshire  Bank  told us it searched for relevant calls using Mr Ms 
known telephone numbers and his unique customer reference number. Yorkshire Bank 
provided us with screenshots from its computer systems  indicating  its searches found no 
results.
Ref: DRN65189013Having looked  at the account terms and conditions, I can see Yorkshire Bank  was able to 
close the accounts if it chose to, providing it gave Mr and Mrs M two months notice. 
And Mr and Mrs M agreed  this notice was given for the joint account closure. So, I think  
Yorkshire Bank acted  reasonably here.
But Mr M said he was told over the telephone that the savings  account  would remain open, 
which it did not. And this isnt mentioned  in Yorkshire Banks call notes. So again, I need  to 
decide whats most likely to have happened  here.  
Ive noted there was a delay between the letters Yorkshire Bank sent about the closure of 
the two accounts.  Based  on this, I do think its possible  that when Mr M first spoke to 
Yorkshire Bank about the current account closure, he might  have been told the savings 
account wasnt closing,  because its not clear  if this decision had been  made  yet. 
But even if this happened, I cant say Yorkshire Bank did anything  wrong  here because the 
information it gave  Mr M would have been  accurate at that time. And Yorkshire  Bank later 
wrote to Mr M explaining the account was closing.  
Im aware Mr M said he didnt receive  the letter Yorkshire Bank  sent. But I noted that the 
letter about  the savings account  was sent to the same address, in the same  way as the letter 
about the current account, just six days later. So, I think its more  likely Mr M did receive  this.  
There are also some  differences between what Mr M told us and other evidence which mean 
I find his evidence less persuasive here. For example, Mr M explained that when he knew  
his current account  was shutting, he transferred his direct debits over to his savings account 
 so when his savings account was closed, this caused him further inconvenience. 
But theres no evidence  Mr M ever transferred his direct debits. 
For all of these reasons, I think its more likely Mr M knew his savings account was closing. 
So, I also think Yorkshire Bank acted fairly when they closed Mr Ms savings account. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs M also wanted to know why Yorkshire Bank closed their accounts. 
And given  the impact  of this, I can completely understand why theyd want this information. 
But I wouldnt expect a bank to provide this level of detail for their decisions, as long as Im 
satisfied that it didnt act unfairly. Given the evidence Ive seen,  I dont think Yorkshire Bank  
acted unfairly. So, I dont think it needs to do anything more here.
customer service
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with the way Yorkshire  Bank treated them during the notice 
period. Specifically, Mr M said hed asked to speak  to a manager hed dealt with previously 
and was refused.  
Yorkshire Bank told us that because its relationship with Mr M had broken down, it decided 
to transfer Mr M to the complaints department  when  he rang during  the notice period.
And whilst Yorkshire Bank was unable to locate the calls with Mr M during the notice period, 
Ive reviewed several complaints Mr M made in the previous  months. And I agree that the 
relationship between them had broken down. 
Ref: DRN65189014I appreciate that Mr M wanted to speak to a particular person. Given some  of the difficulties 
between Mr M and Yorkshire Bank previously, I can understand why Mr M wanted  to speak 
to someone he felt had listened to his concerns. But Yorkshire Bank  is allowed  within  
reason - to decide how it interacts  with customers. So, whilst  I appreciate  this may been 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, I cant say Yorkshire Bank acted unfairly  here in refusing 
Mr Ms request to speak  to a specific person.
And when  reviewing the correspondence and call notes, Ive also looked  more broadly at 
how the account closure was handled.  Taking into account what  Ive said above,  I dont think 
Yorkshire Bank treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6518901