K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about advice from Wellington Court Financial Services Limited
(Wellington) in 2015  to transfer his personal pension  plan (PPP)  to a self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP)  and then invest the transferred funds into unsuitable investments.
background
In 2015 Mr R was referred to Wellington in order to review his pensions. At this time, Mr R 
was 46 years old, employed earning approximately £26,000pa, saving of around  £15,000,  he 
had two personal pension plans, one with Provider A worth approximately  £105,000 and a 
second with Provider  B worth approximately £6,500. The plan with Provider  A was invested 
in five mainstream funds.  The ongoing  cost was 0.96%  per annum. 
Aside from his personal pension plans, Mr R also had a low-cost endowment. He said he 
had no other  investment  experience.
On 10 June 2015 Mr R signed an Advisor Remuneration Form issued  by the SIPP  
administrator. This form confirmed that Mr R had appointed Wellington to provide him with 
advice in relation  to a SIPP and any related investment advice in respect of assets  held 
within the SIPP. The agreed fee for the transfer would be 1% to a maximum of £800. 
Mr R was advised to transfer his Provider  A plan to the SIPP.  The main objective of the 
transfer was to achieve potentially better  returns.  
The SIPP was opened in July 2015  and on 3rd August 2015 £104,529.02 was transferred 
into the SIPP from Provider A. The funds within the SIPP remained in cash. On 11 August 
2015 Wellington received the initial advice fee of £800. There  were  also scheme fees of 
£627.17 or about 0.6% of the balance of the fund.
In late 2015 Mr R was contacted by an unregulated  introducer who acted  as an introducer  to 
a new advice firm, Firm C.
On 6 August  2015 Mr R signed a letter of authority  to transfer  the agency of his SIPP to 
Firm C. The agency formally transferred on 15 September 2015. Mr R was then advised by 
Firm C to transfer to another SIPP to facilitate investment in a Discretionary Fund 
Management service  (DFM).  The DFM subsequently entered administration.  This latter  
advice provided  by Firm C is subject to a separate complaint that has also been brought to 
this service. 
In 2018 Mr R employed the services of TLW  Solicitors (TLW),  who complained to 
Wellington on his behalf about the advice to transfer his personal pension from Provider A. 
Wellington responded that it had no records of any dealings with Mr R and disagreed  that it 
was responsible for the advice.
In their submission to this service, TLW argued  that the advice was unsuitable and raised 
the following  substantive arguments:
The advice did not meet regulatory  standards or principles. In particular the advice 
did not meet  Mr Rs objectives  or fully explain why the transaction was suitable.  
The advice resulted in a loss of investment growth. 
Ref: DRN60508772Wellington did not fully advise on the funds  and the investments exceeded Mr Rs 
attitude to risk.
Wellington were not entitled  to receive  commission payments without consent.
An adviser cannot exclude themselves from providing advice on an investment 
connected to other  regulated advice.
There was insufficient justification for a more expensive product.
They claimed redress to cover all financial loss and associated future advice and product 
fees.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Rs concerns. He first considered  Wellingtons 
argument that it had no record of Mr R as a client and so had no complaint to answer. 
The adjudicator concluded there was sufficient evidence Wellington provided  the advice to 
transfer to a SIPP. He noted the SIPP application  received by the SIPP  provider included  a 
covering letter from Wellington. It said:
Please find enclosed a new application  for my client to the Orbis SIPP together with our 
Investment Instructions. I would be grateful if you could establish the SIPP and then carry 
out the instructions as prescribed.
Please also find enclosed our invoice relating to the fees as agreed with our client that will 
become due once  the SIPP is established and funded.
In addition, he noted an application checklist signed  and dated by Wellington and an adviser
remuneration form completed by Mr R which stated  that he had appointed  Wellington
as his adviser and agreed to pay it 1% of the transfer amount up to a maximum of £800.
A statement of Mr Rs SIPP account reflected that a payment of £800 was made from
his account to Wellingtons bank account on 11 August 2015.
Wellington didnt agree. It said the covering  letter was fraudulent and not issued by it and
the fee payment was not received.  The adjudicator looked into this further and confirmed 
with the SIPP provider that a fee was paid to Wellington for setting up Mr Rs SIPP. From 
this evidence our adjudicator concluded  Wellington had advised  Mr R to transfer
his funds to a SIPP. Leaving aside the other  documentation, allegedly fraudulently produced
according to Wellington  (although  there  was no persuasive evidence of this) the payment of
the fee into Wellingtons bank account was, in isolation, compelling evidence  of a client
relationship with Mr R. So the adjudicator concluded  this was a complaint  this service could 
look into.
Wellington continued to contest it had a client relationship  with Mr R, so an ombudsman  
considered the issue of our jurisdiction. He issued  his decision regarding  our jurisdiction on 
25 July 2019.  In it the ombudsman explained:
our adjudicators conclusion that this complaint can be investigated  by this service is 
supported by the evidence. In the absence of any evidence from Wellington to show the 
evidence we have  seen should not be relied on, he rightly discounted Wellingtons 
assertion that it never had a client relationship with Mr [R]. 
Wellingtons argument that it has no knowledge of him as a client,  is an assertion in my 
view only based on its inability to source  any record of its relationship  with Mr [R]. Its 
Ref: DRN60508773further assertion  that documentation which shows it did have a client  relationship with 
Mr [R] is fraudulent is unsupported by any evidence or reasoning.
Nor has it provided any credible explanation to show that the Orbis SIPP application,  
which named Wellington  as the adviser,  should  not be taken at face value.
Nor has Wellington offered any explanation as to why [the SIPP provider] would fabricate 
evidence it supplied to this service in respect of fee payments made to Wellington.
In view of the evidence and the absence of any compelling evidence  to support 
Wellingtons arguments to refute  it, I can reach no other conclusion than that Wellingtons 
accusation of fabrication of the evidence is misconceived.
The ombudsman then detailed  the evidence relied on in reaching his conclusion; this 
included the SIPP application form and covering letter; confirmation from the SIPP provider  
that payment  was made to a bank account with account details identical to those provided to 
this service by Wellington  on its account statement for August 2015 and this statement also 
showed a payment of £6544.10 was paid into this account on 11 August 2015. The SIPP  
provider had previously  explained this was a bulk payment of which  Mr Rs fee was included.
From this, the ombudsman concluded that Mr Rs fee was paid to Wellington, to its correct  
bank account  and so indicates  a client relationship existed between Wellington  and Mr R.  
The ombudsman also explained:  
I think it not unreasonable to assume Wellington reconciles such payments to its bank 
account with invoices it has issued. It presumably does this to ensure that it has received 
payment for invoices  issued. 
But as it asserts it had not issued an invoice for Mr [R]s SIPP fee then I would have 
expected it to query with [the SIPP provider]  why the bulk payment apparently included 
an overpayment of £800. I have not seen evidence to show it did this.
As the ombudsman considered this service  had jurisdiction, the complaint was returned to 
the adjudicator  who investigated the merits of Mr Rs complaint. 
The adjudicator took the view that Wellington didnt act fairly. In summary,  he explained:
The existing personal pension with Provider A was relatively  low cost at 0.96% per 
annum and invested across 5 mainstream  funds, that offered diversification.  The SIPP 
offered no additional features that benefitted Mr R.
The transferred funds  were held in cash for five months until Mr R was advised to 
transfer again. Wellington had a responsibility  to look at the suitability  of the intended  
investments. 
The adjudicator was unsatisfied  with Wellington s assertion that they were unable to 
locate evidence of their involvement.
The adjudicator suggested fair redress would be a benchmark comparison assuming Mr R 
was willing  to accept  some risk along  with interest  from the date of transfer  from the Provider 
A to when the SIPP was transferred again.  In addition, the adjudicator thought  Wellington 
should pay Mr R £200 for trouble and upset  it actions  caused him.
Ref: DRN60508774Wellington challenged this view,  reasserting that it has no knowledge of Mr R. It said the 
evidence implicating them was fraudulent  and misleading. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and broadly for the same reasons. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Wellington continues to contest that a client relationship existed with Mr R. Most recently it 
has claimed widespread  fraud and wrongdoing by other  parties, namely the SIPP  provider. 
I feel therefore, that I must clarify  what this service does and my role in it. This service is 
impartial between,  and independent  from, consumers  and businesses. What this means  is 
that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  or take 
directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what questions should  be asked or 
answered.
I should also clarify that the role of this service isnt to regulate or to punish  businesses. That 
is the job of the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA). So allegations  of 
widespread fraud, as being claimed  by Wellington  by a business regulated by the FCA, 
should be raised with the FCA. But for completeness, I have not been presented  with 
evidence that persuades  me that the relevant information provided to this service by the 
SIPP provider was fraudulent.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The issue  of responsibility  was presented to an ombudsman, who in July 2019 issued his 
decision that Wellington were responsible  for the advice.  Jurisdiction  remains  an open  
matter until a final resolution on a complaint has been reached.  So I have reconsidered  
whether Mr Rs complaint  is one we can look into. 
No new substantive evidence has been  provided since the ombudsman  issued his decision 
on jurisdiction. Having  considered everything provided, I see no need  to depart from the 
finding that there was a client relationship between Wellington and Mr R and the reasons in 
support of this conclusion.  Therefore,  this is a complaint we can consider.  
Ref: DRN60508775Now turning to the merits of Mr Rs complaint, Wellington  was required to follow the relevant  
rules set out by the regulator. All of which needs to be considered with regard to the 
overarching principles for businesses  in particular, principles  1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care 
and diligence),  6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care).
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.1 required Wellington to gather the 
necessary information  about Mr Rs knowledge and experience relevant to the specific type 
of designated investment, his financial situation  and investment objectives.  This was to 
enable it to make a recommendation which was suitable for Mr R.
COBS 9.2.2 required Wellington  to gather  enough  information to ensure that the
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and had
sufficient knowledge  and experience to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
So, amongst  other things,  to fulfil its duties Wellington had to know its client,  act in his best 
interests and give suitable  advice. 
Unfortunately, Wellington  has been  unable to provide any information about the advice. But 
from what I have been provided, at the time of advice Mr R was aged  46 and sought to retire 
at 65. He was neither a sophisticated investor nor a high net worth individual and aside from 
his pensions and a low-cost endowment, he had no other investment experience.  It seems  
his objective was to increase his retirement  provision. 
The evidence provided suggests Wellington advised Mr R to transfer his pension plan 
benefits with Provider  A to a SIPP.  Ive seen no evidence that it made  a recommendation on 
how those funds would then be invested within the SIPP. Mr Rs funds remained in cash  until 
he received advice from Firm C and transferred his existing SIPP to a new SIPP  
arrangement.  
In my view switching a pension can be a complex transaction with several different factors  to 
weigh up and consider. Mr R was an ordinary retail  investor. He doesnt appear  to have had 
any experience  or knowledge of this type of transaction.  So I think  he was entitled  to rely on 
this advice. And presumably he was persuaded the switch to a SIPP  would meet his 
objective to increase his provision for retirement.  
But Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that the advice to switch to a SIPP  was 
suitable. This arrangement was more complex  than Mr R was used to, considering  his 
previous investment experience and that he was originally invested in a mainstream plan. 
The SIPP was also more  expensive  (assuming  the funds didnt remain in cash). So I cant  
see that the benefits of the SIPP, like flexibility and a wider choice of investment, were  
benefits Mr R sought or needed. In my view,  based on the evidence  Ive been provided, if 
Mr R was unsatisfied with the performance of the funds he was in he couldve
considered making  a fund switch. 
Additionally, in order to provide suitable advice, Wellington needed to have considered 
where the transferred funds would be invested once in the SIPP. Ive seen no evidence  this 
was done. Considering Mr R was only 46 at the time of advice, with over 20 years left before 
retirement, in my view he did not need to de-risk his pension provisions in such a way.;  
especially if he was looking for investment growth as appears  to have been his objective.  
Therefore, it was not suitable that the funds remained in cash. 
Ref: DRN60508776For all of these reasons, I consider Wellingtons advice unsuitable and I uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint. 
However, Wellington isnt responsible for what happened after the SIPP was surrendered 
following the advice  of a Firm C.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr R's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
What should Wellington do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Wellington must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Wellington should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Wellington should  pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance. 
If Wellington is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension  plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr R £200 for the trouble  and upset caused by the disruption to his retirement 
plan.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been  taken off. Wellington should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Ref: DRN60508777Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
GM Orbis  
SIPP 
surrenderedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
transferdate of 
surrender8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Rs circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
Ref: DRN60508778my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited  
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Wellington Court  Financial  Services  Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to Mr R 
in a clear,  simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6050877