K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains Qmetric Group Limited unfairly  declined a claim she made for accidental 
damage to her worktop  under her home insurance policy.
Mrs H is being represented  in this complaint, but for ease Ive referred  to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mrs H.
background
In August  2018  Mrs H made a claim for damage to her kitchen worktop. She reported that 
part of the worktop  had raised where  it joins another part. She thought there could be two 
possible causes of this damage, her upstairs shower leaking and causing water to drip on 
the worktop, or a portable grill on the worktop which could  have  caused  condensation.
A few days  later, having  spoken to her husband,  Mrs H said water from the washing up bowl 
had been spilled onto the worktop. She said her husband had confirmed  this is what  caused  
the damage. 
Qmetric declined the claim for accidental  damage. It said it wouldnt have expected  a one-off 
water spillage to have  caused such damage. Because  the joint where  the damage had 
appeared was near the sink it thought  it was more likely that repeated contact from water 
from the sink has caused  the damage. It said this would have happened over time and so 
was excluded under  the policy. 
Mrs H complained to Qmetric, she said it had taken nearly three weeks  for it to send a 
surveyor out. She said the surveyor was only in the property  for a short time, about ten 
minutes. She strongly  disputed his report.  She said the surveyor had said the type of joint 
used to fit the worktop had been the wrong  one, but she didnt agree this was the case. 
Our investigator didnt  think Qmetic had acted unreasonably in declining the claim.  He said 
he didnt think Qmetric had shown  that the wrong type of joint was used when the worktops 
were fitted.  But he thought it was more likely that the damage would have occurred over 
time, rather than from a one-off event.
Mrs H didnt agree, she said shed discussed this with some kitchen fitters who had said it is 
possible for such damage to occur  as a result  of a one-off event.  
As Mrs H didnt  agree, the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN67706642Mrs Hs policy provides  cover for accidental  damage.  For a successful claim to be made  
under the policy,  Mrs H must show the damage  comes under the definition of accidental 
damage within the policy. This is as follows:
sudden, unexpected and physical damage  which:
i) happens at a specific time; and
ii) was not deliberate; and
iii) was caused  by something external  and identifiable
Initially when the claim was reported, Mrs H didnt know what had caused the damage.  She 
said it was either from the upstairs shower,  but this area looked dry, or from a portable grill 
that had caused condensation on the worktop. Neither of these would meet the definition  of 
accidental damage  as it couldnt  be shown  the cause was identifiable  or that it happened 
suddenly.
Mrs H has explained why she later changed the description of how the damage was caused. 
She says when she initially spoke to Qmetric, her husband was away. And it was only when 
he came  back  that he admitted hed spilled water over the kitchen side and caused the 
damage. 
I accept Mrs Hs later version of events is possible. But even  if I were  to accept this is the 
case, I dont think  its been  shown  on balance  that the cause of the damage  was 
sudden and happened at a specific time. So I dont think the claim should be met under the 
accidental damage  section of the policy.
The surveyor who attended  the property said in his opinion it was more likely  this damage 
happened over a period of time. He said he would not expect the joint to swell up just from 
water being  dropped on it once. He noted the joint was close  to the sink and thought  the 
damage had occurred over a period  of time.
I accept the surveyor  may have  only been in the property for ten minutes, but I dont think 
this means Qmetric has acted unreasonably  in taking his comments into account.  The area 
of damage is a small part of the kitchen, theres nothing  that makes  me think ten minutes 
was an insufficient  amount  of time for him to assess the damage.  Ive taken  into account it 
took Qmetric around three weeks to come out and visit the property. I dont know why it took 
that long, but I havent seen anything that makes me think  this contributed to the damage or 
made it difficult for the surveyor to comment on the cause. Overall I dont think Qmetrics 
delay in assessing the claim  has had an impact on the outcome. 
The report  does say the wrong type of joint may have been  used, which  Mrs H strongly  
disputes. But I dont  think the type of joint is relevant to the claim being declined. Having 
looked at everything, Im not persuaded a one-off event of spilling a large amount of water  
on the kitchen  worktop  caused it to lift at the joint in this instance. So Im persuaded by the 
surveyors comments that this wasnt as a result  of a one-off  event.  
Because the claim doesnt meet the definition of accidental damage, the claim doesnt need  
to be covered by Qmetric. 
Ref: DRN67706643my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6770664