K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that CMC Spreadbet Plc (CMC) unfairly liquidated her positions  on SPX 
500 (Cash) and US30 (Cash).
background
Ms M had an execution-only relationship with CMC. On 5 December  2018  she had buy bets 
of £40 per point on SPX 500 and £50 per point on US30.
She complained that CMC used incorrect pricing and didnt give her enough  time to fund her 
account before the close-out of her trades.
CMC said the buy positions were  closed at the first available prices  corresponding to the 
order quantity on their price ladder. It also said the liquidation of the buy bets happened 
automatically when  the Account Revaluation  Amount  (ARA) fell below the close-out level of 
the account.
It said the trades were  liquidated due to a disruption in the futures market that occurred 
following the funeral of ex-US President George Bush sr, which led to a break in the US 
trading day between 14:30  and 23:00.  When the market re-opened at 23:00, CMC says 
there was a sharp downward movement in pricing  for the first few minutes of trading. This 
sudden move caused the ARA to fall below her close-out level and triggered the liquidation  
of her positions.
An investigator at this service sought extensive  data from CMC about the market 
movements in question  and CMCs actions on the day, and concluded that it had not done  
anything - for these  key reasons:
Its clear the market experienced a very sudden and rapid fall in prices; prices falling 
within a matter of 22 seconds
This sharp  fall reasonably explains CMCs decision to suspend  its market for the SPX 
500
While  Ms M says shed only seen the S&P move 70 points  in a whole day of trading, 
as opposed to just two minutes, the data confirms there was a sudden  and 
unexpected move  in the market (even though  there was a subsequent correction). As 
this move occurred when the market re-opened,  and in response to an important 
event in the US, its not unusual that prices moved so rapidly and within an extremely 
short time
She was satisfied that CMCs pricing reflected  what was happening  in the underlying  
market and that Ms Ms trades  were  executed  at the best possible price available  to it 
at that time
While  Ms M refers  to other traders who had live prices, quoting 2684 at 23:16 on the 
IG platform and 2680 at 23:17  on the FXCM platform, the liquidation of her positions  
occurred between 23:00 and 23:05,  several  minutes before other traders received 
their prices for the same contracts  on other  platforms. As such,  this didnt 
demonstrate that Ms M received less favourable prices than other traders  couldve  
got using different  platforms at the same  time
With regards to the margin requirements,  the sharp drop in prices  around 23:00 
caused the unrealised net losses on her account to increase.  In turn, this caused the 
ARA to fall below her close-out level
Ref: DRN64837142While  Ms M had £50,000 on the account to accommodate price volatility, when  the 
market re-opened  at 23:00:00, she had a live cash balance of £106,356.08  and an 
unrealised net loss of £100,749.30
When the platform generated  its first price for the US30  contract the unrealised net 
loss on the account  increased to £105,899.30. This meant she only had an ARA 
amount of £456.78; below the close-out level requirement of £2,290.54
By the time the platform  was able to generate a price for the SPX500,  she had a 
cash balance of £55,617.28 and an unrealised  net loss of £55,092.50.  This left an 
ARA amount of £524.78, below the close-out  level of £1,060.71
CMC  were entitled to close  her positions when her ARA fell below the close-out level:  
and it could do so automatically and without  giving prior notice  as explained in the 
terms and conditions
While  Ms M may not have had time, once notified of the problem, to add the 
necessary funds, this was an inherent  risk in this very high-risk  activity and was 
clearly spelt out in the terms  and conditions
Overall, she was satisfied that each  account close-out followed the procedure 
detailed in CMCs  order execution policy and that it provided  sufficient risk warnings  
about this possibility
Ms M did not agree,  and asked for an ombudsman to review  the case, reiterating her key 
complaint points.
She subsequently  said she had received a margin  call recently, on 26 January 2020, when 
the Asian markets  opened, and yet again she couldnt access  CMCs platform  to deal with 
this which  lead to it liquidating her positions.  This, she said,  demonstrated its platform was 
not fit for practice and showed why her complaint should be upheld.
The investigator said this recent issue would need to be looked at as a separate complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. In my view, her analysis 
satisfactorily explains what  took place and answers  a number of Ms Ms central  concerns:  
including the fact that there was a sudden and rapid  dip, far more  dramatic than the 70 point 
fall over the day and that falling below her ARA gave CMC the power  to close  her positions  
automatically and without notice. And that this was clearly spelt out in her terms and 
conditions.
As Ms M did not contest the details of the investigators findings  merely reiterating her 
original complaint  I have  not seen any new evidence requiring me to reassess the figures 
or timeline.
I note that Ms M has raised a new concern about  CMCs platforms reliability, which  will need 
to be dealt with separately,  but I dont  think the available evidence indicates  that what 
occurred in December  2018 was as a result of any platform failures. I therefore dont believe 
it is relevant to the specific  complaint  first raised,  which I have now assessed.
Overall, I am satisfied that CMC spelt out the very high risks involved in what is, in effect, 
financial gambling. The situation Ms M faced, while unusual,  was far from unique and an 
Ref: DRN64837143inherent risk as CMC clearly explained  on its website when describing, The Risk of Account 
close-out and Market volatility and gapping. Under  the first heading it specifically outlines 
the risk of rapid  changes outside  normal UK hours when  spread betting on international 
markets and the risk of an account being closed automatically if ones account falls below 
close-out level.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6483714