K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) gave her incorrect information 
about the arrears  and failed to serve her with notice of default. Shes also unhappy about the 
service provided by RBS.
background
Miss M brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the response  from RBS. RBS 
partially upheld  the complaint. They said  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He made a number of findings  which  Ill summarise 
here;
It wasnt unfair for RBS to hold Miss M responsible for the loan repayments as this 
was a joint loan with her ex-partner and they had joint and several responsibility for 
the loan,
From  listening to the call from February 2017 he thought RBS should also have 
made it clear to Miss M that her missed payments would also be recorded  on her 
credit file,
In July 2017 RBS should have understood, when told by Miss M her house had been  
sold, that her address  would need to be updated  but they didnt ask about this,
RBSs mistake with the address meant Miss M didnt get the letters  asking her to 
repay the full balance  by a certain  date to avoid a default,
But he thought,  in respect of the default notice, it wouldnt have made any difference  
to the outcome as Miss M confirmed she wouldnt have been able to repay the full 
loan balance,
There was no evidence to support  shed been  told the loan was on hold,
From  listening to the call on 30 August 2017  he thought it was likely Miss M knew the 
account was in arrears  but RBS could have  been  clearer in explaining the exact 
situation with those arrears to Miss M,
In October 2017 he thought it was likely RBS had incorrectly  given information to 
Miss M about her ex-partners mortgage.
In summary  he thought  RBS should  have  communicated  more clearly with Miss M and they 
hadnt treated  her fairly.  So he thought they needed to do more to put things right. He took 
the view RBS should pay Miss M a total of £200  compensation.
RBS accepted the view. Miss M didnt. She told us, although the investigator agreed RBS 
hadnt acted fairly, the outcome he recommended  didnt benefit her at all given the impact 
their action had on her. She asked for the ombudsman reviewing this case to look at the 
conversation on 30 August 2017 as she thought this showed she wasnt  aware she was in 
arrears. If shed  been told she was shed have  had the necessary conversation with RBS 
then. She wanted  the breach of Data Protection, where  shed been  told her ex-partner  had a 
mortgage, addressed  correctly. She said it was disgusting to be told about this after shed 
been through a break up and it had an impact on her mentally.  And she said she wanted the 
investigators finding that notification of the default wouldnt have made any difference  
revisiting correctly. 
Ref: DRN60498082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im of the view this 
complaint should  be upheld  and that RBS should  increase the amount of compensation they 
pay to Miss M to £200  in total.
Its clear that Miss M has strong feelings about  this complaint. Shes provided detailed
submissions in support  of her view, which I can confirm Ive read and considered  in their
entirety. However, I trust that Miss M will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised, but to set out
my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them.
This complaint is essentially  that RBS gave Miss M incorrect  information  about the status  of 
the loan and the arrears on it and that they failed to update her address despite knowing 
shed completed  the sale of her property. The most serious consequence  of this was that 
important letters about the loan arrears  and default action were sent to her old address. It 
also meant she didnt  get letters the bank sent about  her compliant including its final 
response.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in his letter  
giving his opinion,  so I shant repeat that here.  Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to 
what hes already  told Miss M. I think  hes covered most points  quite clearly.  I agree with his 
analysis. And, following  an independent review  of the evidence,  I think  the findings hes 
made - which Ive summarised above  - are ones Id have come to in any event.
I know Miss M finds it hard to reconcile the finding  that RBS have treated her unfairly with 
the corrective action  recommended, which  she thinks doesnt  address the impact  of the 
default on her credit  file. I also appreciate she was never  given the actual opportunity to 
repay the full balance.  But given  her email to this service on 23 October 2018 - when she 
clearly says she wasnt in a position to pay the full balance and can provide bank statements 
to support this  I dont think the delivery of the letter and the opportunity to repay would 
have changed  the ultimate outcome here.  And although Miss M has told us she may have 
had the option of family helping her at the time and she would have looked at all available 
options at the time, theres no evidence  before me to satisfy me that this would have been 
the case.
Given how strongly Miss M feels about what happened she may want to pursue the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
her dispute  with RBS informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Miss M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc must pay 
Miss M a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 January 2020.
Ref: DRN60498083Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6049808