K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs P says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2001  when  
purchasing goods in a store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear  to Mrs P that the policy was optional and get her consent  before 
PPI could be applied  to the loan agreement. Mrs P says she was not made aware of the PPI 
and it was added to the account without her knowledge or consent. But FICL has said it 
made the optional  nature  of the policy clear.  Ive been given a copy of the credit agreement  
completed at the time and I can see that this includes a section about PPI. In this section  
there is a box to sign if you want to take out the PPI and Mrs P has signed in this section.  
And I can see that Mrs P signed the overall agreement which suggests it reflected what  she 
wanted.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs P 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
Both parties  agree that FICL didnt recommend the policy to Mrs P. And from looking  at the 
paperwork supplied, I think thats  likely to be right. So FICL didnt have to check  if the policy  
was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave Mrs P clear  enough information 
about the policy to enable her to decide  for herself  if she should take the policy.  
When looking at the credit agreement  I can see that this clearly  sets out the monthly cost of 
the policy and how this is calculated. And I think she would have understood it would cover 
her loan repayments in the event of a claim.  But its possible that not all the information  FICL 
gave Mrs P about the PPI was as clear  as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so 
it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have  been  useful for 
her if something went wrong  even taking into consideration the sick pay she says she 
would have received. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
Ive noted that Mrs P has said that her family  would have helped  her if she was unable to 
make her repayments. Whilst I appreciate that her family would have wanted to help, 
Ref: DRN62191032support from others cant be guaranteed  as their circumstances can also change meaning 
they are unable to provide such financial assistance. So this doesnt alter my decision.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs P has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6219103