K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Motorpoint  Limited  misrepresented a hire purchase agreement he used 
to acquire a car. He says he was told the mileage  allowance would be 9,000 a year, but the 
agreement was for 7,000.
background
Mr K has been represented  on this complaint,  but to keep things simple  I will only refer to 
Mr K in my decision.
In March 2016 Mr K acquired a new car funded by a hire purchase agreement - financed  by 
a company Ill refer to as T. Motorpoint  brokered the agreement, which had a balloon 
payment at the end if Mr K wanted to keep the car. This type of finance, as Mr K has referred 
to it as, is commonly called personal  contract purchase (PCP).
Mr K says he had discussed with Motorpoint  that he would  require an annual mileage 
allowance of around 9,000.  But, he later found out the agreement  was for a maximum of 
7,000 miles a year  above which an excess mileage charge would apply if he returned  the 
car at the end of the term. He said he needed  9,000  miles  a year as he worked around 15 
miles away from home. He thought a quote may have been changed from a three to a four 
year term by Motorpoint, but without altering the mileage.
Mr K complained to Motorpoint and in August 2018  it issued its final response letter. It sent 
Mr K a copy  of his credit agreement and said this showed a mileage  allowance of 7,000 per 
year. It also said its representative  wouldve run through the paperwork with Mr K. So, it said 
it was not upholding his complaint.
Mr K was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. While awaiting our 
opinion on the case, Mr K said he had been  in touch  with T as there had been a change  in 
his and his partners personal circumstances.  T offered to terminate the agreement and take 
the car back  - without  charging for excess mileage. The car was handed back to T in 
October 2019 and as far as Im aware,  Mr K wasnt charged for being over the agreed  limit.
Our investigator issued  her opinion and didnt uphold the complaint. She accepted  it was 
possible that the finance agreement was misrepresented to Mr K. But, she thought as the 
agreement had been terminated without  Mr K being charged for excess  mileage, she didnt 
think he had lost out as a result. So, she didnt think Motorpoint needed to do anything 
further.
Mr K responded and said he had lost out as he didnt have a deposit to put down on a car in 
the future.  He said Motorpoint had told him he would receive £1,500  towards a new car if he 
returned the car to it at the end of the term. He said hed paid more  for insurance as hed 
covered himself for 9,000 miles a year. And he said and he said he was unhappy with the 
value hed been given for his previous car that he traded into Motorpoint.
Our investigator contacted Mr K and said this didnt change her opinion.  She said the 
amount Mr K had got for his previous car wasnt something we could consider. And she said 
she still didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr K disagreed. He reiterated hed been misled on the agreement.  He said hed lost out on 
any payment towards a future car. And he said he lost out on his motor insurance premiums.
Ref: DRN61957342The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mr Ks hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  financial  agreement.  His complaint  about 
Motorpoint is in relation  to credit broking. This is a regulated activity  so this service is able 
to investigate his concerns  about  Motorpoint.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the agreement  was misrepresented  to Mr K. 
For this to have happened, Mr K wouldve needed to have been told a false statement of 
fact about the credit,  that induced him into taking  it when  he otherwise would not have.
Mr K says he was unhappy with the value he received  for his old car that he part exchanged  
with Motorpoint  - for the deposit on this agreement. But, Mr K hasnt said Motorpoint misled 
him about the amount  he would receive  for this car or that he was expecting to receive  a 
different deposit  than that on the credit agreement. Valuing a car when it is part exchanged  
isnt a regulated  activity.  So I cant  consider if he was given a fair price  for his old car.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr K says he was told at the meeting. I understand he 
believes he was quoted a three year term at 9,000  miles  a year - which he thought was 
extended to a four year term without the mileage being changed. But having  thought  about  
this, the figures  here dont quite add up. Mr Ks agreement shows a mileage allowance  of 
28,583 over 49 months  which is 7,000  miles a year. If this mileage  was taken over three 
years this would  mean an annual limit of 9,527  miles. So, I dont think  its most likely this is 
what happened.
Ive considered the agreement Mr K electronically signed at the time. On the front page,  
under the section GOODS RETURN OPTION it says Permitted Maximum Mileage  
(including mileage on delivery). Next to this is a box with 28,583  in. So, I think Mr K 
couldve seen from this that the maximum  mileage on the agreement was 28,583   or 7,000 
miles a year.
Ive also considered that Mr K has shown he insured the car for 9,000 miles a year.
Thinking about  all of this, Im not sure theres enough here to make me think  its most likely 
Mr K was told the agreement was for 9,000  miles a year. But, ultimately I dont think  I need 
to make a finding here. This is because,  even  if the agreement was misrepresented to Mr K, 
I cant see that hes lost out as a result of this. I know  Mr K disagrees  with this. He has made 
a number of points where he feels  hes at a financial loss because of what happened,  so Ill 
consider these in turn.
One of Mr Ks points  is that he feels hes lost out on a deposit towards a further agreement  
because of handing the car back to T. He says Motorpoint agreed to a £1,500 deposit if he 
returned the car to it at the end of the term  but he instead returned  the car to T to avoid 
paying excess mileage  charges.
Ref: DRN61957343I cant see that this arrangement forms part of the credit agreement.  And, I havent seen any 
other evidence that this arrangement existed.  So, I havent seen enough to make me think  
Mr K was told this. But even if he was, I cant be sure of any terms or conditions that might 
have applied. So, I also havent seen enough  to make me think, even if 
Mr K was told this, that he wouldve qualified for any deposit  towards  a further agreement.
Mr K also says he lost out because  the car was valued in negative equity when he returned  
it. I assume  from this he means  that the car was worth less than the guaranteed future  
value (GFV) on the credit agreement. The GFV is a prediction of what the car would be 
worth at the end of agreement. If the car was worth less than this, which  Mr K seems to be 
saying here that it was, the GFV means Mr K wouldnt owe the finance company  anything 
when he handed  the car back. 
It appears T didnt charge him when he returned the car - despite Mr K saying the car was in 
negative equity. So, I cant  see that Mr K has lost out here. And I dont think  this scenario 
would be any different if the mileage differed on the agreement.
Mr K feels  like hes lost out on his insurance - as he paid to cover 9,000  miles a year rather 
than 7,000. But if Mr K intended  the car to be driven around 9,000 miles a year,  he wouldve 
needed to report  this to his insurer. What  the mileage allowance on the credit agreement  
was wouldnt affect this. So, Im satisfied he hasnt  lost out here.
Ive also considered whether Mr K lost out by terminating the agreement early.  He says he 
did this as he was concerned about the potential excess mileage charges. Thinking about 
what he told us about the change to his partners, and his own, personal circumstances, I 
cant be sure if he wouldve kept the car for the full term of the agreement or not. I accept if 
he did, he wouldve had use of the car for another few months. But he also wouldve been 
paying the monthly cost for this  which he didnt have to do once the agreement  was 
terminated. So, again, I cant see that hes lost out here.
In summary,  even if Mr K was told the mileage  allowance on the agreement  was 9,000 a 
year, I cant see this has had an impact  on him. So, I dont think  Motorpoint needs to take 
any action here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6195734