K821x#15complaint
Mr P says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as Pounds to Pocket,  (P2P), lent to him 
irresponsibly. The complaint is brought to this service on Mr Ps behalf by a claims 
management company.  But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr P.
background
P2P agreed four short term loans and five refinance  loans for Mr P from November 2012 
until October 2017. Each loan except Loan 1 was initially repayable by 12 monthly 
instalments. Loan  1 was repayable by eleven  monthly instalments. Mr P hadnt repaid 
Loans 4 and 4a. But P2P told this service that it had waived the outstanding balance  on 
Loans 4 and 4a as a gesture of goodwill.  Ive set out a summary of the lending  below.
Loan 
numberDateLoan amount 
(£)Number of 
instalments 
dueHighest  monthly 
repayment due 
1 8/11/2012 1,000 11                £169.42
1a 
(refinance) 22/04/2013 42512  £177.94
1b 
(refinance) 29/08/2013 20512  £177.45
1c 
(refinance) 25/10/2013 10012 £179.96
2 24/10/2014 1,150 12  £176.81
3 19/10/2015 1,300 12  £204.17
3a 
(refinance) 26/02/2016 55012  £233.80
4
16/2/2017 65012 £102.22
4a 
(refinance) 6/10/2017 30012 £96.13
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld  in part. She didnt uphold the 
complaint about  Loans 1 to 1b but recommended that the complaint about Loans 1c 
onwards be upheld. 
P2P disagreed.  It said, in summary, that Mr P had a good lending  and repayment history. It 
also said that Mr P hadnt showed signs of financial difficulty. P2P said that Mr P had a 
sufficient disposable  income to make  the loan repayments. P2P also said that the mere  
number of loans  was insufficient to conclude that the loans were unsustainable.  It noted that 
Mr P had only incurred one late fee throughout his entire lending  history. P2P had also said 
that starting  from 1 March  2015  (which was before Mr P borrowed Loan 3 and onwards),  it 
had implemented an affordability assessment that was consistent with the FCA Handbook.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN63919532When P2P first lent to Mr P the regulator  was the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT) and relevant 
guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). From 1 April 2014 onwards 
the regulator was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations  and 
guidance were  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The ILG and CONC 
contained similar guidance  for lenders about responsible lending. 
With regard to P2Ps assessments after 1 March 2015, this service has addressed  this 
specific point by P2P in previous decisions.  I would remind  P2P at this point of the FCA 
guidance on how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by 
businesses. In particular  DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for 
complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Ps complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
P2P needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that P2P should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN63919533I think that it is important for me to start by saying that P2P was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
P2P did a number of checks before it lent to Mr P. It asked him for details of his income. 
From Loan  2 it also asked  about Mr Ps expenditure. Mr Ps declared income was £2,300 
until Loan 4 when it increased  to £2,443.  P2P also checked Mr Ps employment and housing 
status. From the information P2P gathered, Mr P was employed and paid rent. 
P2P also checked Mr Ps credit file before agreeing to the loans. P2P hasnt provided  us with 
the results of its credit checks. It has only provided  this service with a summary of its last 
credit check  before Loan 4a. I have seen  a copy of Mr Ps credit report. I note that there is a 
County Court Judgement,  (CCJ), dated  8 May 2017 which I would have  expected to be 
shown on P2Ps last credit check.  But I cannot see reference to it there, although its 
possible P2P didnt  supply us with the part of the credit report which  refers to CCJs.
The repayments that Mr P needed to make on Loans 1 to 1b were relatively modest 
compared to the income that he declared  to P2P.  So given Mr Ps repayment amounts, what 
was apparent about his circumstances at the time,  and his history with the lender,  I dont  
think it wouldve been proportionate for P2P to ask him for the amount of information that 
would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr P provided or the information P2P shouldve 
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I dont think P2P was wrong  to give these three loans to Mr P.
But I think that by the time Mr P took out Loan  1c, the amount of refinancing loans taken by 
him should have  suggested to P2P that he was struggling to manage  his finances. Loan  1c 
was the third refinance of Loan  1 and taken just two months after the second refinancing 
loan. Loan 1c extended the repayment  of Mr Ps first loan by a year.  So I dont think  P2P 
should have given Loan 1c to Mr P. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of P2Ps lending history  with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which P2P should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so P2P should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Ref: DRN63919534Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
Loan 2. I say this because:
The main loan amounts Mr P was borrowing were increasing  and P2P ought  to have 
realised it was likely his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
By Loan  2, Mr P had been borrowing almost  continuously for almost two years from 
P2P. Loan 2 was provided within nine days of settling Loans 1 to 1c. So P2P ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr P was having  to borrow further  to cover 
the hole that repaying  his previous loans had left in his finances. 
From Loan  2 until Loan 3a and by Loan  4a, Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the 
amount he owed P2P. Loan 4a was taken  out around five years after Mr Ps first loan. 
Mr P had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to P2P over an extended 
period. 
I also think that the chain of lending of almost five years  doesnt reflect  the intended use of 
high-cost short-term credit.
I think that Mr P lost out because P2P continued to provide borrowing from Loan 2 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mr P had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
The fact that some of the loans were repaid does not mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr P undue difficulty.  
I should add Ive considered the points P2P made in response to the adjudicator.  P2P said 
that Mr P had a good repayment  history  and there was nothing to indicate  that he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. But I think P2P will (or ought  to) know  from previous  
decisions that this service considers there  will be times when the pattern of lending alone  is 
enough to indicate that a consumer is likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise 
be harmed should  relending continue. So it follows that successful repayment  of a loan 
doesnt automatically mean it was repaid sustainably.
P2P also said that the mere number of loans is an insufficient basis  to conclude  that the 
loans were unsustainable. And that Mr P had sufficient  disposable  income to meet the 
repayments. But, P2P will know from previous decisions (as well as whats set out on our 
website) that there are cases where  this service considers  the overall lending pattern and 
not just the affordability of each loan.  When a consumer borrows  numerous loans over a 
long period of time, its most likely  that the loans  arent being used for their intended  purpose  
of temporary cash flow problems. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  Loans  1c onwards and P2P should put things right as 
follows.
Ref: DRN63919535putting things right  what P2P needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on Loans 1c onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse entries about Loan  1c from Mr Ps credit file;
all entries  about Loan  2 onwards  should be removed  from Mr Ps credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires P2P to take off tax from this interest. P2P must  give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as Pounds to Pocket, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on Loans 1c onwards;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
3.Remove any adverse  entries about  Loan  1c from Mr Ps credit file; and
4.The number of loans  taken from Loan 2 onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loans 2 onwards should  be removed 
from Mr Ps credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires P2P to take off tax from this interest. P2P must  give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6391953