K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that TSB Bank  plc (TSB) breached her confidentiality when discussing 
her account  in the branch.
background
Mrs P visited  her local branch of TSB in May 2018.  Her account balance was lower than she 
was expecting given  that she had paid in a large cheque. She queried  why this was and the 
branch adviser  said that the account had been overdrawn before the cheque was paid in. 
Mrs P felt that the adviser was very unprofessional in the way she dealt with the query and 
was unhappy  that her financial  situation  was being discussed in public. She was particularly 
upset because there was someone she knew in the queue and she feels  that they may have 
overheard that her account  had been overdrawn. As a result,  Mrs P says the situation has 
caused her a great deal of upset and embarrassment.
She returned to the branch the next day to complain. The branch manager offered  
compensation of £50 for the upset and frustration which  the situation had caused Mrs P. She 
also offered to provide feedback to the branch adviser. Mrs P didnt accept the offer and 
referred her complaint  to us. 
Our investigator thought that TSBs response to the complaint was fair and that they didnt 
need to do any more. But Mrs P didnt accept  the £50 as she felt the harm had been done  
and couldnt be undone. She didnt think £50 was enough to reflect the upset and 
embarrassment which the incident had caused her and thinks £200 would be a more 
appropriate level of compensation.  So the complaint has been passed to me make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this situation  has been very upsetting for Mrs P and she feels  that the 
member of staff breached  her confidentiality by making the comments they did. TSB has not 
disputed what Mrs P has said and it has recognised  the upset and embarrassment  caused 
by upholding the complaint and awarding  compensation. So my role in this case is to decide 
if the £50 offered by TSB is reasonable given all the circumstances of the complaint.
In a situation like this, its very difficult to put a monetary  value  on the upset and 
embarrassment which has been  caused. But I agree that Mrs Ps situation is one where a 
compensation payment is appropriate. As to how much that should be, I think  £50 is an 
appropriate amount  here.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ps comments to our investigator. And I realise she feels worried  
about continuing to use the branch now that she has complained about a member  of staff 
there. 
But Ive balanced  this against  the fact that TSB dealt  with the complaint straight away,  
acknowledging as soon as Mrs P complained that the situation had been upsetting and 
embarrassing for her. By instantly upholding the complaint and making  an offer of 
Ref: DRN62547232compensation, TSB have not prolonged the upset to Mrs P or made  it worse.  They  have also 
offered to speak to the member of staff in question  and give some re-training to make  sure 
this wont happen  again. So although  I can understand Mrs Ps strength of feeling here, and 
why she wants more  compensation, I think TSBs  is fair. Our awards  are generally modest 
and I think that £50 is a fair offer in the circumstances of this complaint. I know  this will be 
disappointing to Mrs P but Im not going to ask TSB to do any more  here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that the amount of 
compensation already offered by TSB is fair. 
TSB Bank plc should now pay Mrs P £50 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6254723