K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC has administered her sole accounts.
Mrs As relative sometimes acted on Mrs As behalf.  But, to keep things simple,  Ill only refer 
to Mrs A in this complaint even if the action I talk about was actually taken by her relative
background
In May 2017  Barclays wrote to Mrs A about her accounts. It told her it was going to make  the 
accounts dormant  in August 2017 unless she took one of the actions it set out in its letter. 
Mrs A tried to contact  Barclays by phone several  times but got nowhere despite  seemingly  
speaking to staff. 
Mrs A decided to try another approach instead.  She told us she wrote to it in June 2017. In 
that letter, amongst  other things, she told it what she wanted it to do with the money in her 
accounts. She didnt  think it strange that she did not get a response.  Neither did she follow 
this up as she was going through a difficult period  at this point.  However, on reflection, she 
thought Barclays  was in the wrong  in any event, for not following up on its letter of May 2017 
before taking further action.
In January 2018 Mrs A got in touch with Barclays. It turned  out that the bank had put the 
money in dormant accounts, as it had previously said it would do. After  some to-ing and 
fro-ing it was able to tell her that the money had been released from the dormant accounts. 
Mrs A asked it to send the money  to a third-party bank which  it did. She asks for 
compensation running into hundreds  of pounds to make up for what it put her through, as 
she sees it.
Barclays said it was not able to take Mrs As instructions by phone  when she called in 
response to its letter  of May 2017 as she had failed its security procedures. It said it had no 
record of receiving her letter dated June 2017. It apologised for not responding.
Further, it did agree  that, in some other  respects, things had not gone  as well as they could 
have done. In particular, it had not handled her complaint as well as it should have and it 
offered £100 to make up for this.
Our investigator took a look at Mrs As complaint.  She concluded she had no proper basis to 
ask Barclays to do more  for Mrs A. In summary,  she said this because she thought that 
Mrs A should have realised sooner that her instructions had not been followed. And she 
thought Mrs A should have taken more action  to lessen the impact of this. She did not agree 
that Barclays had taken too long to release the money so it could be transferred to the third-  
party bank. In all of the circumstances, she thought the £100 Barclays  had already  offered 
for distress and inconvenience  was fair and reasonable.
It appears that Barclays accepted our investigators  conclusions. Mrs A didnt. In summary, 
she suggested that much more compensation was reasonable given the level of customer 
service she received from Barclays. Further she pointed out that regardless of whether 
Barclays received her letter setting out her instructions or not, it was wrong of it to move  her 
money without contacting  her again. 
We could go no further at this stage, so I was asked to take a fresh look at the complaint  and 
come to a decision.
Ref: DRN62536892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs A has made  a number of detailed points in support of her complaint. 
Barclays, too, has provided us with detailed information. I have read and considered  
everything that both Mrs A and Barclays have sent to us. I hope  the fact that I do not 
respond in similar detail  here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal  dispute 
resolution service, our role is to reach  a fair and reasonable  conclusion with the minimum of 
formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond to every  point made,  but to 
concentrate on the crux of the issue.
Where there is a dispute about what happened  (as is the case  in part, here), I have  based  
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what  I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence.
Both Mrs A and Barclays agree it wrote to her in May 2017 making it clear it would make her 
accounts dormant  if she didnt respond to it. From what  Ive seen, Mrs A knew  this would 
happen in August 2017 should she take no action.
However, Im satisfied she did take action. I say this because she told us she did, and 
Barclays notes show she did try and contact it by phone after she got its letter. But those 
notes also show she failed its security  procedures. I have no reason  to doubt the accuracy of 
those notes which were  made  at the time. I think it is not unreasonable,  in these 
circumstances, that it would not take her instructions by phone.
Further I think that, given  the telephone calls didnt get Mrs A anywhere, it is likely  that Mrs A 
followed these calls up with her  letter of June 2017.  It seems  the letter was correctly  
addressed. On that basis I can see why Mrs A thought it had arrived. I think  that was 
reasonable. Barclays do not appear to dispute  that the letter was sent. Rather  it cant  find 
any record of receiving  it for which it does not hold Mrs A responsible. This does explain 
though why it did not take any steps to follow her instructions. That said,  Mrs A was unaware 
of this. Up until this point I can see why Mrs A believed Barclays  was following her 
instructions.
But it is significant that in the letter of June 2017  Mrs A gave  Barclays  instructions; those 
instructions were not followed. Mrs A tells us she assumed that the instructions had been 
followed. But none of the things she asked for happened. I dont think  it was reasonable in 
these circumstances  for Mrs A to assume her instructions had been followed.  I also think  this 
ought to reasonably have prompted  her to check out what  was happening  with Barclays 
sooner than she did. She tells us she didnt check for around six months  because  this was a 
difficult time for her. But if she had contacted Barclays  once  in those six months  it is likely  
things would have  progressed. She has not explained why she couldnt have taken time to 
make one contact with Barclays even in the midst of the very real personal reasons at the 
time.
I see that Mrs A suggests that she had plans for the money in the dormant accounts that she 
couldnt go ahead with. It seems she is saying that Barclays  caused her to make  a loss. 
Although she has not provided further  details  of this loss. I think, though, it is reasonable that 
she should have  taken steps  to minimise  her loss. For this reason, as well, I might  
Ref: DRN62536893reasonably have expected Mrs A to have  done  more sooner. However, it seems it was not 
until early 2018  that she tried to get to the bottom  of what was happening.
I realise Mrs As position is that Barclays was wrong to go ahead with making  the account 
dormant without contacting her again. But, given thats what  the May 2017 letter  said it 
would do, and what the relevant terms and conditions say and what  industry best practice 
says, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to go ahead without writing to her again. 
Mrs A also suggests it didnt initially tell her what had happened to her money. But the letter 
of May 2017  did say what would happen to the money. It said the money would be put into 
dormant accounts.  And that is what Barclays did, so I cant  fairly say Barclays  didnt tell her 
this.
It seems  to have kept to the relevant timescales for releasing the money from the dormant 
accounts. Even though I accept that is no comfort to Mrs A who felt she was being kept 
waiting too long for her own money.  
That said,  it is clear Mrs A didnt always receive  the level of customer service  she is entitled  
to expect from Barclay. In particular, Barclays has said it didnt  deal with her complaint as it 
should have done and has offered her £100  for distress and inconvenience as a result.
Mrs A rejects the offer of £100. Instead  she has asked for a substantial award. How she has 
come to the figure  she asks for is not clear. She has talked about  taking  time out of work and 
having to spend a considerable  amount of time in Barclays  bank branches to get to the point 
where her own money went to her nominated account. Her frustration  and her chagrin at 
having to do this jumps  off the page when I read her submissions. However, it seems to me 
for the reasons I have  set out that the £100  offered  covers that. 
It follows that I dont agree that it is fair and reasonable to ask Barclays  to take any further 
action. If Mrs A wishes, now,  on reflection,  to accept Barclays offer of £100, she will need to 
contact Barclays directly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6253689