K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a 
store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mrs H took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in 
August 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mrs H says it wasnt made clear that the policy was optional and that it was presented as a 
condition of the store card. Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Hs application form for the store card. It 
has a separate  section  for PPI and within that section a person needed to sign to request the 
policy. If someone didnt want the policy they could have left that section blank.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Hs recollection of 
the sale has faded. Based on the available evidence, I think that FICL  made  Mrs H aware 
that she had a choice about buying the PPI  and the way that the application form is laid out 
reinforces that. It seems to me that Mrs H probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs H, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs Hs employer would have given  her six months  full pay, followed by six months  half pay 
if she was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mrs H would have received full pay for. And she hasnt mentioned  having  any 
savings that she could fall back on. Shes  said that her husband would have helped, but 
other people  cant  always  be relied  on as their circumstances can change. Overall I think  
Mrs H had a need  for the policy and could have benefitted from it if shed been unable  to 
work due to illness or if shed lost her job.
Ref: DRN67567662Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Mrs H had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that better 
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So Mrs H isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
Ive also thought about the unfair commission  argument made by Mrs Hs representative.  As 
our adjudicator explained, the unfair relationship  provisions under the Consumer Credit  Act 
do not apply to this complaint because FICL did not provide the credit to Mrs H.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6756766