K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square)  mis-sold him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S applied for a credit card online in 2002. He was sold the PPI at the same time in 
connection with this credit card.
The PPI cost 74p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve covered 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mr S was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Canada  Square didnt agree 
with our adjudicator  and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.  I will now explain why.
Canada Square  didnt advise Mr S to take the policy out. This means  they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr S. But they still had to provide Mr S with 
information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that Mr S could make an informed 
decision about whether to take the policy  out or not.  In particular they should  have 
highlighted the policys main exclusions and restrictions. One such exclusion related to pre-
existing medical conditions.
From the evidence available to me, it doesnt appear  that Canada  Square made it clear to  
Mr S that he wouldnt be able to make  a successful claim under the policy for a pre-existing 
medical condition.  Mr S has told us that he suffered from a medical condition at the time of 
the sale. Canada  Square questioned this as Mr S did not mention he had a pre-existing 
medical condition  when asked on the PPI questionnaire (PPIQ). They  say he subsequently 
mentioned this on his complaint form. So they asked for evidence  in support. 
When our adjudicator asked Mr S why he did not mention  this in the PPIQ, he explained  that 
he didnt think this condition would be classified as a pre-existing medical  condition.  Our 
adjudicator accepted Mr S explanation and didnt request medical evidence to support what 
Mr S had told us about his medical condition.
 
However, we subsequently  did ask Mr S for some medical evidence  about his condition.  We 
have now received this evidence  and it is clear that Mr S was suffering from this condition at 
the time of the sale.
Given that the policy wouldnt have covered Mr S if he was off work sick because of this 
condition, I dont think Mr S would have taken the policy out if this had been made  clear  to 
him at the time of the sale. I appreciate that Mr S could have made a claim for other 
conditions and would also have received a monthly benefit if he lost his job. However, it 
seems to me that the most likely reason  Mr S would have needed to take time off from work 
would have been because of his pre-existing  medical condition. As such  I dont think  Mr S 
Ref: DRN67068922would have thought the policy  was off good  value for money  in his circumstances. So I think 
Canada Square  mis-sold  Mr S this PPI policy.
fair compensation
Canada Square  should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Canada Square should find out how much  Mr S would have owed when he closed  his 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Canada Square  should then refund the difference between  what Mr S owed when he 
closed his account and what he would have  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Canada  Square can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Canada Square should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mr S would 
have owed when he closed  his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
C.If  when  Canada  Square works out what Mr S would have owed  each month without 
PPI  Mr S paid more than enough to clear  his balance,  Canada Square  should also pay 
simple interest  on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mr S wouldve  owed Canada Square something on his credit  card.  The 
interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
D.Canada Square should tell Mr S what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Canada Square  to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint  against Canada Square Operations Limited  and require them to 
pay Mr S the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67068923
Ref: DRN6706892