K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) for authorising  a payment from 
his account. Mr C is unhappy that it took his time and calls for the payment to be refunded 
and Barclays did not credit him with his compensation payment immediately. 
background
Around the beginning of December 2018  Mr C contacted Barclays  to ask why his account 
balance was lower  than he expected.
He was told that a payment for £13.99 had been  authorised and was due to debit  Mr Cs 
account shortly. He was advised that the payment was a regular payment from a continuous 
payment authority.
This payment was to a website  and Mr C did not recognise it. 
Mr C wanted to challenge the payment but was told that he would have to wait until it had 
debited. 
Mr C called back two days later. He was unhappy that the payment  had been  allowed to go 
through. 
Mr C spoke with a manager who agreed  to refund the £13.99 payment. It was also agreed 
that a further £10 credit would be made to Mr Cs account to reflect  the cost of his phone  
calls. Barclays also agreed  to credit him with £25 as a goodwill gesture for the 
inconvenience caused. 
The £25 credit was not processed immediately. 
Mr C complained to Barclays and Barclays responded  in late December 2018.  It apologised  
for the failure  to process the credit and processed the credit at that time. 
Mr C was not happy with the way Barclays had addressed his concerns and contacted  us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that Barclays  had acted reasonably and had made  an appropriate offer of 
compensation. She therefore did not ask Barclays to do anything further. 
Mr C did not accept that view so the complaint  has been passed for an ombudsman decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has said that the payment in question was a continuous  payment, which had been 
authorised by the cardholder previously. It did, however, acknowledge that Mr C wanted to 
dispute the payment by early December.  
Barclays advised that it could only raise a dispute for this payment  once  it had been  made.  
This is their process and I do not think this is unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN67476892After the payment had debited Mr Cs account,  Mr C contacted Barclays and was able to 
dispute the payment. Barclays then refunded the payment to him, and paid him £10 to cover 
his telephone calls. 
I think this was reasonable in the circumstances  but Barclays also offered Mr C £25 to reflect 
his distress and inconvenience. This was not immediately credited to his account but was 
then later credited  when  Mr C raised  his complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr C did not expect the payment to be taken from his account and was 
upset when it was, but I think  Barclays responded reasonably  and took appropriate steps to 
compensate Mr C once it was aware that he disputed the payment. 
For these reasons I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint  and do not ask Barclays to do anything  
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint  and do not ask Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6747689