K820x#14Im sorry  for the length of time its taken for the complaint  to reach  this stage.
complaint
Mr M is complaining about  The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited because it 
declined a claim on his critical  illness insurance  policy.
background
In November 2012, Mr M applied for a life and critical illness insurance policy  through an 
independent broker.  The policy started in January 2013 and was set to provide cover of 
£150,000 for a term of five years. The policy was rated  which means Royal  London 
charged a higher premium  because of his medical  history.
Sadly, Mr M had a heart  attack before the policy was set to expire. But Royal London didnt 
pay the claim because  it said he hadnt disclosed relevant information about  his health. 
When it initially received  Mr Ms claim,  Royal London noted from his medical  records that he 
saw his GP with chest pain shortly before the policy started and was referred  for an 
electrocardiogram (ECG) in October  2012. Once  the results  were received, he then had an 
echocardiongram in November 2012   around  two weeks before he applied for cover. So 
Royal London asked  him why hed said no to the following two questions in his application:
Section C - Question  8
For questions 5 to 14, do you have, or have you ever had, any of the following?  
Irregular heartbeat, palpitations,  heart murmur or heart disease including angina, 
heart attack  or chest pains.
Section C - Question  30
In the last 5 years, other  than for those conditions you have already told us about in 
this application,  have you:
attended  any other medical appointment,
taken any other test or medication,  or
received  any other  treatment?
When it received Mr Ms response, Royal London said it accepted his explanation for 
answering question  8 as he did. But it felt he should have disclosed the recent  investigations 
in response to question 30. If he had done,  it said it wouldnt have covered him. So it 
cancelled the policy and said it would refund the premiums paid.
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt Mr M should 
have disclosed details  of the tests and investigations shortly before the policy started. If he 
had, she was satisfied  Royal  London wouldnt have covered him and that it was therefore 
entitled to decline  his claim.
Mr M didnt  accept the adjudicators assessment, making the following key points:
 
He declared all diagnosed conditions in his application, gave consent for Royal 
London to obtain  his medical records and attended  the medical screening it 
arranged.
Ref: DRN69167422Hes had many  ECGs as part of the treatment and monitoring of his hypertension and 
cholesterol and he considers  these to be routine. This is supported  by a letter from 
his GP in 2002, referring to routine  investigations and confirmed in a recent  
conversation with his doctor.
His medical notes from September 2012  say he was referred  for an ECG because  for 
chest pain and probable Gastro-oesophageal reflux  disease  (GORD).  He 
understands an ECG is a routine part of this investigation.
He did discuss the ECG at the medical screening Royal London arranged.
He wasnt told about his diagnosis of left ventricular hypertrophy  (LVH)  at the time 
and only found  out about this when he claimed on the policy.
He doesnt  believe he suffered typical chest  pain in terms of cardiac related 
conditions and is unclear about  the meaning  of the term atypical chest  pain.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Ms health problems and I realise  hes 
been through a very difficult time.
Mr M has made detailed submissions in support of his complaint and Ive read what hes had 
to say very carefully. But I havent  tried to address every  point  hes raised in this decision.  
Ive instead concentrated on the key issues I think are central  to the outcome of his 
complaint.
I note Mr M says Royal London had the chance to obtain his medical records at the time of 
sale, but this isnt something insurers  routinely  do. Instead, common industry practice is to 
ask consumers to complete an application form, including  questions  about their health,  and 
to rely on the information provided.  Insurers will typically only ask for additional medical 
information from the consumers doctor if something is mentioned  in the application  that 
warrants further investigation. It was presumably with this in mind that the following warning 
was included in large print on the front page  of the application signed by Mr M:
Important information  for the person completing this form
Please answer  all questions honestly  and in full. If you miss any information out, or 
give us misleading  information, it could mean we wont pay if you have to make a 
claim.
When a consumer hasnt  given the insurer relevant information in response to a clear 
question, this is known as a misrepresentation. The relevant law, as set out in the Consumer 
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA), and supporting  industry guidance 
issued by the Association of British Insurers (ABI), recognises different types  of 
misrepresentation and sets out the actions an insurer  can take depending on the type of 
misrepresentation that took place.
Ref: DRN69167423In assessing this complaint, I need  to consider  the following key questions:
should Mr M have answered question  30 on the application differently?
and if so, would the information Royal London  didnt receive have made a difference  
to its decision about offering  him cover.
Mr M did disclose  a history of high blood pressure and cholesterol in response  to other 
questions and he paid a higher premium because of these conditions.  But he didnt record  
anywhere in the application about  his recent chest pains and the tests and investigations 
hed recently undergone. After reading  question 30 carefully, Im satisfied it was worded 
sufficiently clearly and should  have led Mr M to tell Royal London about  these  recent 
developments so it could  take them into account.  I appreciate Mr M may not have seen or 
fully understood  all of the results, but he wasnt asked about that. He was only asked if hed 
attended medical appointments or had any tests and that was all he needed to disclose.
Royal London did arrange additional screening in view of Mr Ms medical history, but this 
only focussed on the issues he disclosed in the application. At the screening, he completed 
another questionnaire  in which he said hed seen his GP in the last six months. But the 
supplementary questionnaire simply records this was routine and no further details were 
provided. As a result, Royal London  didnt make further enquiries. In my view, that was a 
reasonable approach to take based on the information it had.
I note Mr M says he did discuss his recent  ECG at the screening. But on their own and 
without supporting evidence, I dont think his recollections are enough for me to conclude 
this information  was provided  and wasnt appropriately recorded.  Im also conscious that 
following the ECG, Mr M had also been referred for further investigation  in the form of an 
echocardiogram. Ive seen no suggestion  that was discussed at the meeting.
Mr Ms medical records show he saw his GP for chest pain in September 2012  and was 
referred for an ECG.  I note he says hed undergone  this type of test before, but I dont think  
these events could  reasonably be described as routine.  In particular, Im conscious it doesnt 
appear the referral  was for routine monitoring of his hypertension and cholesterol, but rather  
that it was made because  he was complaining of chest pain that it was initially  felt might be 
attributed to a different  condition, GORD. Further, once the results of the ECG were  
available, he was referred for further investigation  in the form of an echocardiogram.
Royal London says it would have contacted Mr Ms doctor for more  information about his 
recent issues and tests if it had known  about  them before accepting  his application. I think  
that would  have been a reasonable approach to take and its consistent with how my 
experience of how insurers react in this type of situation.
Because I think Mr M should  have answered the application differently and told Royal  
London about his recent  chest pains and tests, I think I must  conclude a misrepresentation 
took place. I dont think theres  any reason  to believe  he deliberately tried to mislead  anyone. 
But at the same time, the events concerned were  so close  to the date of the application  that I 
dont think he could  reasonably have forgotten  about them or that the misrepresentation was 
otherwise entirely  innocent. Instead,  I think the misrepresentation would correctly be 
classified as careless under CIDRA.
In cases of careless misrepresentation, the law allows  the insurer to restore  the position that 
would have existed  if it had been given  the correct information in the first place. Royal  
Ref: DRN69167424London has said it wouldnt have covered  Mr M and thats why it felt entitled to cancel the 
policy and return the premiums paid.
I note Mr M has questioned whether his application would have been declined  and Ive 
considered this issue carefully.
Royal London has provided evidence from its underwriting guidance showing it would have 
declined cover if a combination of conditions led to a total rating of more than +150%.  It had 
already rated the policy by +50% because of issues disclosed on the application form, 
including blood  pressure, cholesterol and Mr Ms body mass index. So that means cover 
would have been declined if an additional rating of more than +100%  would  have been  
applied if the application had been answered  correctly.
The results  of Mr Ms ECG and subsequent  echocardiogram refer to a diagnosis of 
moderate LVH. Royal London has provided  evidence to show this would have led to a 
rating of +75%, making  a total rating of +125% taking account  of the +50% rating  already  
mentioned.
The ECG results also said ischaemia couldnt be ruled out in view of Mr Ms symptoms. 
Because the subsequent  echocardiogram  didnt  provide any clarity on potential ischaemia, 
and in the absence of any investigations to exclude  it as a cause of his chest pain, Royal  
London says its underwriters would have assessed this as possible coronary artery disease, 
which would have resulted in a further rating.
Its difficult to say now for certain  what would have happened. But if Royal London  had been 
aware of the results  of Mr Ms tests at the end of 2012, I dont think  it would have provided 
cover without taking account  of the reference  to potential ischaemia in the ECG  results.  And 
I think the approach  its suggested  to treat Mr M as if he had potential heart disease and 
apply a further rating  would have been reasonable. If this approach was adopted, the 
additional rating would have taken  the total of all ratings above the 150% benchmark beyond  
which Royal  London would  have offered cover.
The other possible option would have been  for Royal  London to postpone cover  until further 
investigation had been completed to assess whether the condition was present. I dont think  
I can reasonably say this is the approach that should have been taken. But even if it had 
been, Mr M would  still have been left without a policy.
I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment for Mr M and isnt the outcome 
he was hoping for. But, on balance, I think he should have answered the application 
differently and that Royal London wouldnt have covered him if he had done. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  its fair to require  it to pay out on a policy it wouldnt have offered 
if it had been given the correct information  at the outset.
Ref: DRN69167425my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Its not currently  clear whether  Mr M 
has received the refund  of premiums  Royal London  initially spoke about. If he hasnt, Id 
expect Royal  London to arrange this following  my decision as it is part of the remedy  for 
cases of careless misrepresentation outlined in CIDRA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019. 
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6916742