K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Virgin Media  Mobile Finance  Limited (Virgin Mobile) refused  to cancel 
a contract for a mobile phone and misdirected his subsequent complaint.
background 
Mr R says that Virgin Mobile failed to deliver one of two phones he ordered  from them  under 
a finance agreement in December 2017.  He says they then refused to cancel the loan 
agreement because they didnt have the phone back even though they agreed it was with 
their delivery company.  Hes also upset  that when he complained  to Virgin  Mobile they said, 
if he remained dissatisfied, he could  escalate  his complaint to the Communications  and 
Internet Services Adjudication Service (CISAS).  But when he did so he was told he 
shouldve escalated it to this service instead. Mr R is so disappointed with Virgin  Mobiles 
performance hes asked  to be allowed to cancel all of his contracts  with the business.
Virgin Mobile accepted that the handset wasnt delivered by their representatives; the 
delivery company,  who they said had damaged it and not returned it to them. They  explained 
that whilst  they initially  thought CISAS were  best placed to answer Mr Rs complaint they 
now realised this wasnt the case and had suggested it was referred to our service. They 
said theyd now cancelled  the loan agreement in question and refunded Mr Rs money.
But Mr R wasnt  satisfied with Virgin Mobiles response so he referred his complaint to this 
service and our investigator took a look at the evidence. He didnt think Virgin  Mobile had 
been fair and he noted that Mr R had been  passed from one organisation to another to have 
his complaint resolved: he thought Virgin Mobile had been slow to take responsibility.  He 
didnt think it would  be reasonable to ask Virgin Mobile to cancel the other  contract but he 
did think they should pay Mr R some compensation for the distress  and inconvenience hed 
been put to. He suggested £200 and Virgin Mobile agreed to this settlement.
But Mr R didnt. He didnt  think this settlement  fairly represented the trouble hed been put to 
and explained  that hed needed to have extensive  calls and communication with Virgin 
Mobile to have this case resolved. So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R but I think the settlement thats  been  proposed  is sufficient 
redress in the circumstances  and Im not going to ask Virgin  Mobile to pay any more 
compensation.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN65598262I was sorry to hear about the difficulty Mr R has had. Its taken a long time to rectify what  
was a relatively simple  mistake and its fair, in those circumstances, that Virgin Mobile  
compensate Mr R for the inconvenience their lack of action  has caused.
Mr R shouldnt have had to wait until the phone  was returned for them to accept 
responsibility. The delivery company were Virgin Mobiles representative and had accepted  
the goods were  not delivered  and were damaged. This is all the evidence  Virgin  Mobile 
shouldve required to cancel the agreement.
And when  Mr R complained to them  they shouldve realised their error, cancelled  the 
contract and reimbursed Mr R sooner. 
They were  also wrong to direct him to the wrong alternative dispute resolution  service and 
this caused further,  unnecessary delays.
But with these issues in mind I think the level of compensation has been reasonable. Ive 
reviewed Virgin Mobiles records that show the calls made  and correspondence  that was 
required. Its certainly excessive but Im not persuaded that it necessitates  increasing  the 
level of compensation.  The agreement has been  cancelled and funds have been refunded to 
Mr R so hes no longer at a financial loss. 
Im not persuaded that Virgin Mobile  need to cancel the other  phone  contract Mr R formed  
with them  either.  I dont think this would be a fair resolution as Im not told theres anything 
wrong with that phone or service and Mr R is outside of the cooling off period in which he 
could return the device and cancel his agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Virgin Media Mobile  
Finance Limited  to pay Mr R £200  to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
their actions have caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6559826