K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 1995 when Mr F applied for 
a loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld.  Mr F didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  I explain why below.
Mr F and Lloyds  recall the sale being made  at a meeting. The policy was sold over twenty 
three years ago so it isnt surprising that neither Mr F nor Lloyds still have copies of the 
paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account that memories can fade 
over time. In cases like this, where  the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide  what  is most likely to 
have happened. 
Lloyds has provided  a sample  loan agreement which it says was in use at the time the policy 
was sold. I think its more  likely than not Mr F was asked to sign an agreement like this to get 
his loan funds.
On the loan agreement there is a section called Optional  Loan  Repayment Protection and it 
has Yes and No boxes  in that section  to indicate  if cover  is required. From what we 
understand about the way these  policies were sold, this part of the loan documentation 
wouldve been completed after a conversation between the representative and Mr F. Ive 
considered what  Mr F has said, but I think its more  likely than not he would have been  
aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI policy and that he chose to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr F, so it needed  to check  that it was right for him. From 
what Mr F has told us about his circumstances at the time, I think it was. Mr F was eligible 
for the policy and was employed. The main exclusions around employment and pre-existing 
medical conditions  didnt apply to him. 
Mr F has said that he had little or no sick pay from his employer,  so he may have had to rely 
on his family  if anything went wrong.  The policy  wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr F 
was too ill to work, or if he lost his job. The policy provided cover in addition to any employer 
benefits Mr F had and would have reduced  his reliance on any help his family may have 
been in a position to give him. So, I think the policy could  have  been  useful to Mr F. 
Ref: DRN65705952I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Lloyds didnt include 
information on the amount of interest  which would be payable on the PPI policy  over the loan 
term. But even if it had, I think Mr F would still have bought it. Given  how long the policy 
could have paid out for, if Mr F made a successful claim he couldve got back quite a bit 
more than he paid for it. 
Mr F would have got back only a limited  refund  of the PPI premium  if he cancelled the policy 
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mr F. But I havent  seen  anything to suggest  he thought 
hed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for him. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the policy was unaffordable to Mr F or that he had 
a need to keep costs  down.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better  
information wouldve  stopped him from buying  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint about  Lloyds  Bank Plc.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6570595