K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a PCP agreement with Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
background
In April 2015 Mrs M was supplied with a car and entered  into a PCP agreement with VWFS.
Mrs M says she was told by the dealership that if she entered  into a PCP she wouldnt have 
to pay anything extra when she renewed  the car in three  years  time. She says she was led 
to believe that the monthly payments on renewal would be the same.
In March 2018 Mrs M visited the dealership  to renew  the car. She was told that her monthly 
payments would increase by £125  for a new model  of the same car.
Mrs M feels  that she was misled into entering  the PCP. She says she part exchanged her 
old car for approximately  £5500, which she otherwise would have kept. She says she has 
always entered into hire purchase agreements before and wouldntve entered into the PCP 
if she hadnt been encouraged to do so by the dealer. 
To resolve  her complaint  Mrs M wants  her deposit back. Alternatively she wants  a new car at 
no additional  cost to her current agreement.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt that Mrs M was aware that this was a 
PCP agreement which operated differently to a hire purchase agreement. She said that the 
business couldnt be expected to predict what the cost of a future PCP agreement  would  be 
and there  was nothing in Mrs Ms agreement which said she would pay the same  amount 
when she renewed  the car.
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said she would never have entered into a PCP agreement  and that 
she only did so because  of what the dealership said to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because I wasnt present when the discussions took place between  Mrs M and the 
dealership, I cant be certain  of what was said. Theres  no contemporaneous evidence of 
what was discussed.  The dealership doesnt  have any notes and the salesperson who spoke 
to Mrs M is no longer employed  there.  In the circumstances, I need  to look at the available  
documentary evidence  in order  to determine  whats more likely to have happened at the time 
when the agreement was entered into.
Ive looked at the PCP agreement and Im satisfied that the key terms are clearly  set out, 
including the options available at the end of the agreement. Theres  nothing  in the 
agreement which says that Mrs M could renew the car in the future on the same terms.
I appreciate that Mrs M says she wouldntve entered  into the agreement if she hadnt been 
told that she could  renew  the car on the same terms. In order for me to be satisfied theres 
been a misrepresentation I would need to be persuaded  that the dealership made  an untrue 
Ref: DRN63996502statement of fact and that this was the main  reason  which induced Mrs M into entering into 
the agreement.
Im not persuaded that this is the case. Whilst I accept there may have been a discussion 
about renewing the car in the future and the costs  of doing so, I think its unlikely that the 
dealership told Mrs M that she would  be able to renew the car in three years  time on exactly  
the same  terms. The dealership couldnt  possibly have known what the cost of a new model 
would be in three years time (or any point in the future). There are too many factors outside 
of the dealerships control which affect  the price  of cars.
Ive thought about what might have influenced Mrs M into entering the agreement.  I dont 
think its likely that the future cost of a new car would  have  been  the sole factor.  Mrs Ms 
desire for a new car would have been a factor as well. Its also likely that the lower monthly 
costs of a PCP agreement (as compared  to a hire purchase agreement) influenced her.
Ive taken into account the fact that Mrs M had almost two months between the time when 
she discussed the PCP with the dealership and the date when the agreement went live in 
April 2015. If being able to renew  the PCP agreement on the same  terms in three years time 
was Mrs Ms sole reason for entering the agreement, I would have expected her to query 
why the agreement didnt mention anything about this.
I appreciate that Mrs M is disappointed that shes unable to renew her car on the same 
terms as before. But on the available evidence Im unable to safely  conclude  that the PCP 
agreement was mis-sold or that the dealership misrepresented the cost of a future  PCP 
agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6399650