K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
August 1992.  Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that he chose  to take it out. I say this particularly as Mr A had written yes in a box 
on the credit card application  form, indicating that he wanted  to add PPI to his credit 
card  although I can understand if he cant remember this given how long ago it 
happened.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr A got the information he needed  to 
decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
All of which means Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because : 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr A about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr A, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what hes said about the PPI being  
added to his card without  his knowledge  and his circumstances at the time. But these  points 
dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN65843082what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Scotland should  also pay back  to Mr A any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mr A the difference  
between what Mr A owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got, hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of Scotland should also pay Mr A 8% 
(15% on payments before  April 1993)*  simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some 
point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr A any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6584308