K820x#14The complaint  
Mr S complaint is that Blue Motor  Finance  Ltd didnt send him the early  settlement quote he 
had requested and then transferred his account to a recovery company and started legal 
proceedings. 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S entered into a hire purchase  agreement with Blue Motor  Finance and in doing 
so agreed to its terms and conditions,  including maintaining his scheduled  
repayments. When Mr S contacted Blue Motor Finance  in December 2018, he said 
had been away  for a number of months and asked about the situation on his account. 
He was told his account had arrears  of over £2,600  and that payments hadnt been  
made for 10 months.  Mr S didnt make  any offer to clear the arrears at that time. 
On the December call, Mr S asked how much it would cost to settle  the agreement 
and was told a settlement  quote  could be sent to him. Unfortunately, this didnt 
happen. Blue Motor  Finance upheld Mr S complaint in regard to this and apologised. 
I find that this was a reasonable  response.
Mr S has said that because the quote wasnt provided further  issues  arose. While I 
note Mr S comments, I do not find, on balance, that had he been  sent the settlement 
quote in December 2018, his overall situation would have changed. I say this 
because Mr S was in arrears on his account  having  not made payments for a number 
of months. He was aware of this and had he wished  to settle the agreement  I find it 
more likely than not that he would have  made  contact with Blue Motor Finance again  
to ask about the settlement quote and to make  the payment.
Mr S didnt  raise his complaint about the missing settlement quote until further  action 
was being taken by Blue Motor Finance. I can understand  that Mr S was upset by 
this but as his account was in arrears  and payments had been missed  I cannot say 
that Blue Motor  Finance did anything wrong  by taking further action.  
Overall, while  Blue Motor Finance did fail to send Mr S the settlement quote he 
requested, I find that apologising for this was a sufficient response. I do not find that 
Blue Motor Finance  did anything  wrong by taking the action it did following Mr S 
missed payments.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN64505782My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Blue Motor  Finance Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6450578