K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold  them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1994 when they took out their mortgage.
background
The mortgage was in joint names, but this policy covered Mr P only in case he couldnt work  
through an accident, sickness  or if he lost his job.
The policy cost around £33 initially and would have paid out the monthly benefit for up to 
24 months per claim.
In October  I issued my provisional decision.  In it, I explained to both parties  why I wasnt  
intending to uphold their complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms 
part of my final decision. In summary, I explained why I still thought Mr and Mrs P would 
have taken out the cover even if the information  could have been  clearer.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Both parties  have been sent the provisional  decision. Nationwide  confirmed it had nothing 
further to add. Mr and Mrs P also havent given me any new information to consider. So, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings  set out in my provisional decision.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs P lost out as a result of anything Nationwide did wrong and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60728222Copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a mortgage  in 1994.
background
The PPI covered Mr P only (not Mrs P) if he was off work through an accident,  sickness or if he lost 
his job.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint as he said that the cost and the benefit of the policy  werent 
clear. He said after taking into account Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances he didnt  think Mr and Mrs P 
would have bought the PPI if the costs had been clearer. Nationwide disagreed  with this view and 
asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im not intending to uphold  this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint to Mr and Mrs P. 
I will explain why.
After all this time since  the sale, Nationwide  no longer  have the paperwork from the time.  This is 
understandable and not unusual given that the sale happened so long ago and businesses arent  
required to keep records indefinitely. Mr and Mrs P also dont remember  all the detail  of the sale after 
so much time has passed. But where  the evidence  is incomplete, I will look at this complaint  based on 
the balance of probabilities  - that is whats more likely to have  happened taking into account the 
evidence we do have,  what both parties  have told us and what we do know about  these types of sales 
from that time.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr and Mrs P had a fair choice  about buying the PPI. 
Nationwide doesnt  have the application form Mr and Mrs P completed at the time.  But it has provided  
a sample of the type of application Mr and Mrs P would have  seen. This form was from around the 
same period of time and I think most likely reflected what Mr and Mrs P saw when they were applying  
for their mortgage and the PPI.
On it theres a section about the PPI. Mr and Mrs P would  likely have had an option to choose 
whether or not they wanted  to take it out. They would have had to tick the box yes to say they 
wanted the cover. They could have ticked no if they didnt want  to take out the PPI. The policy  was in 
Mr Ps name only  so from this I think Mr and Mrs P probably selected to cover him only knowing 
they could either also add Mrs P to the cover or refuse it if they didnt want it. And Mr and Mrs P would 
have had to sign and date the mortgage application.  It would be reasonable for me to think  that they 
read the completed forms they were signing.
Mr and Mrs P also likely received insurance schedules  which would  have set out the cost and the 
benefit and annual renewal  notices  and mortgage statements  which would have set out that they had 
PPI. If they were unsure  if they had the PPI or wanted to question it I think  they could have raised this 
with Nationwide at an earlier stage. I havent seen evidence that they have done so. And they could 
have cancelled it at any time without penalty if they no longer wanted it. All in all, I think  that Mr and 
Mrs P likely had a choice about taking  out the PPI knowing they could decline it if they didnt want it.
Ref: DRN60728223I dont think its likely  that Nationwide recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. That meant Nationwide 
didnt need to take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI was suitable for them. But it still did have 
to give them enough clear  information so that they could make an informed decision about whether or 
not they wanted  to take it out.
As there  isnt much  paperwork from the time, its possible that not all the information  was as clear  as it 
could have been but thinking  about things carefully,  I dont  think better, or clearer  information would 
have put them off taking  out the policy.
I say this because more  information would have shown Mr P, the person  covered, that he was eligible 
for the PPI. And I dont think he would have been affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations to 
the policy  which might  have made  it more  difficult to make  a successful claim.
In a call note to Nationwide Mr and Mrs P told it that Mrs P would have  received six months full sick 
pay followed  by six months half sick pay. Mr P couldnt remember receiving  any sick pay. They also 
say they had each others salaries and savings  if things went wrong. I have also taken into account  
that this policy covered a mortgage and the consequences of not being able to repay  the monthly 
repayments were serious. On a successful claim this policy would have paid out for up to 24 months 
so if Mr P was unable to work there would quickly be a shortfall in Mr and Mrs Ps income.  The PPI 
would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay he might  have got and likely  for longer and this policy 
could have been useful  if they fell into difficulty.
Theres nothing which makes me think the PPI was unaffordable at the time.
Overall, even if the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs P could  have been  better or clearer, I 
dont think they lost out financially  because of anything it did wrong  and I dont intend to uphold  this 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Im not intending  to make  any award against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6072822