K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy  was taken 
out when Mr P applied  for a loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld. Mr P didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. I explain why below.
Mr P and Lloyds recall the sale being  made at a meeting. The policy  was sold over twenty 
three years ago so it isnt surprising that neither Mr P nor Lloyds still have copies of the 
paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account that memories can fade 
over time. In cases like this, where  the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide  what  is most likely to 
have happened. 
Lloyds has provided  a sample  loan agreement which it says was in use at the time the policy 
was sold. I think its more  likely than not Mr P was asked  to sign an agreement like this to get 
his loan funds.
On the loan agreement there is a section called Optional  Loan  Repayment Protection and it 
has Yes and No boxes  in that section  to indicate  if cover  is required. From what we 
understand about the way these  policies were sold, this part of the loan documentation 
wouldve been completed after a conversation between the representative and Mr P. Ive 
considered what  Mr P has said, but I think its more likely than not he would have been 
aware he had a choice about  buying the PPI policy and that he chose to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P, so it needed to check  that it was right for him. From  
what Mr P has told us about his circumstances  at the time,  I think  it was. Mr P was eligible 
for the policy and the main exclusions around  pre-existing medical  conditions  didnt apply to 
him. Mr P told us he thought he would have found  it hard to claim because he was self-
employed. We havent seen the policy document that actually pertained  at the time of the 
sale but I have  seen one from shortly  afterwards. it doesnt seem  that Mr Ps employment  
Ref: DRN62697722status would  have prevented him from successfully  claiming. So I dont think thered have 
been anything  to stop him claiming  the full policy benefit if hed needed to.
And I think that Mr P had a need for the policy. I say that because Mr P said that he had no 
sick pay as he was self-employed and that he had no other  means he could have  relied on if 
Mr P was off work sick for a long time,  or if he lost his job. The policy  couldve paid out for up 
to 12 months if Mr P became unemployed, and for the remaining term of the loan if Mr P was 
too ill to work. So, I think the policy could have been  useful  to Mr P. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Lloyds didnt include 
information on the amount of interest  which would be payable on the PPI policy  over the loan 
term. But even if it had, I think Mr P would still have bought it. Given  how long the policy  
could have paid out for, if Mr P made a successful claim  he couldve got back  quite a bit 
more than he paid for it. 
Mr P would have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled  the policy  
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mr P. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr P thought  
hed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for him. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think the policy was unaffordable to Mr P or that he had a 
need to keep costs down.  
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better  
information wouldve  stopped Mr P from buying it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6269772