K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited  was wrong  to void his 
motor insurance policy  (cancel it as though  it had never existed) and not pay a claim made  
on it on due to his not disclosing relevant details when renewing  the policy. 
background
Mr M took out a policy with Southern  Rock  in May 2016. His mother  (Mrs M) was a named 
driver. Mr M declared two speeding (SP30) offences for her from 2014  and 2015.  When  the 
policy renewal was due in May 2017,  these details were  carried  forward. Southern  Rock  
asked Mr M to advise it of any errors or changes  in the details the new policy was based  on. 
He says he checked with Mrs M and she confirmed she only had two speeding offences. 
In March 2018 Mr Ms car was written-off  in an accident. After validation  checks,  Southern 
Rock decided to void the policy from May 2017  and not cover the claim. It kept the premium 
as it said Mr M had deliberately or recklessly not declared Mrs Ms speeding conviction from 
August 2015 (an SP50). Mr M was able to show that he had declared an offence from that 
month (although  as an SP30  - and by its conviction date - November 2015). 
After Mr M complained to us, Southern  Rock  said he hadnt disclosed a speeding offence for 
Mrs M from December 2016. It said it wouldnt have offered Mr M a policy  in 2017 had it 
known that either of the drivers on it had three speeding offences  in the previous five years.   
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint. She thought it was reasonable for 
Southern Rock to say hed acted recklessly. She said although hed asked Mrs M about her 
offences prior to renewal,  he should  have done more to ensure that what  she said was 
correct. So she thought he didnt take reasonable care in answering the clear question  
Southern Rock had asked  about endorsements and convictions during the previous five 
years. Mr Ms representative, Mr H, made extensive comments on the situation, but neither 
Southern Rock nor the investigator  changed their view. Mr M asked for a review of his 
complaint by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ms complaint as follows:
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  a 
consumer has to take reasonable care in responding to the clear  questions an insurer asks. 
In this case, the renewal invitation  set out the details Mr M had supplied  the previous year.  
He was asked  to check that they were accurate and up to date and to notify Southern Rock 
of any motoring convictions, fixed penalty notices  or speeding offences during the last five 
years. It also said it must be updated about  any changes or amendments. 
When Mr M called  to renew the policy, the advisor  asked  him to confirm that all the previous 
years details were the same, and told him to read the policy documents  carefully. The 
covering letter for the policy documents said the policy  was based on the previous years  
details. It said it was important to ensure all questions  were answered honestly and to the 
best of Mr Ms knowledge. So I think Southern Rock made it clear what details it needed. 
Mr M confirmed that the details hed given Southern Rock previously were  still correct, 
although that wasnt the case. So he misrepresented the facts. But in order  for the 
misrepresentation to be a qualifying  one under CIDRA, Southern  Rock  has to be able to 
show that Mr M didnt take reasonable care in answering its questions.  
Ref: DRN69245472Mr M had asked Mrs M about her driving record before he bought the policy in 2016.  He 
declared the two offences she told him about to Southern Rock. Mr M reported the 2015 
offence as an SP50 rather than an SP30, as that was the information he was given by 
Mrs M. Southern Rock voided  the policy because (in error) it thought  Mr M hadnt reported 
the August  2015 offence at all. It seems to have assumed that the offence he reported with 
the conviction date of November 2015  was a separate offence. The confusion  was later 
sorted out. And it was then the number of offences  within five years that Southern  Rock  
relied on in confirming the policy  voidance  (not an SP50 Being reported as an SP30). 
I think its far more likely than not that Mr M asked Mrs M in 2017 about her record  before the 
renewal. She didnt  tell Mr M that she had a new speeding offence  on her record. It seems 
she thought the 2014  offence was about to expire after three  years, so in her view, she only 
had two live offences to declare. But Southern  Rock needed  to know about  all offences (live 
or not) within the last five years. Had Mrs M told Mr M about the new offence, I think  he 
would have told Southern Rock about  it. He would have had no reason not to, as he couldnt 
have known that would have meant cover would  be declined.     
I think that by checking with Mrs M about her driving record before  renewing the policy,  
Mr M took reasonable  care to ensure that the details he gave to Southern Rock would be 
accurate. Had he made an assumption  about the offences on Mrs Ms record,  I dont think 
that would  have amounted to taking reasonable care. But I think  an average  consumer 
would accept an assurance provided by such a close  relative,  and wouldnt insist  on seeing 
DVLA records.  
As I dont think Southern  Rock has shown that Mr M didnt take reasonable care,  I dont think 
there was a qualifying  misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I dont think  its able to void the 
policy and avoid the claim. I think it needs to remove all references to the voidance  on 
databases and consider  Mr Ms claim,  in line with policy terms and conditions.     
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Mr M accepted  it. Southern Rock 
said regardless of any misrepresentation by Mr M, given the number of offences it would not 
have offered him cover. So it said it had the right to avoid the policy  and refuse the claim.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Southern Rock entered into a contract with Mr M in 2017 when it renewed  the policy. I 
appreciate that it wouldnt  have  done  so had it known the named driver  had three  offences 
on her record  within  the previous five years. As he wasnt aware of one of the offences, Mr M 
unwittingly misrepresented the facts to Southern Rock. But in my opinion he took reasonable  
care not to misrepresent. I think that means  there wasnt  a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Under CIDRAs provisions, an insurer only has a remedy  if there  has been a qualifying 
misrepresentation and it can show it would have  acted  differently without that qualifying  
misrepresentation. In this case, I dont think Southern  Rock  can show that there  was a 
qualifying misrepresentation on Mr Ms part, for the reasons set out above. So I dont think it 
can avoid the contract  it entered  into and refuse  the claim. 
Ref: DRN69245473my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this compliant. I require Southern  Rock  Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Reinstate the policy and consider Mr Ms claim, in line with policy terms and 
conditions
Remove all records  of the policy voidance on databases and write to Mr M stating  
that the policy was voided  in error
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6924547