K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op)  has been sending  him fraudulent e-
mails.
background
Mr S says Co-op has been  sending him e-mails that are fraudulent and they are being sent 
to him by a different  business. He says the e-mails  are designed  to appear genuine and to 
give the impression  they come  directly from Co-op.  Mr S says the e-mail address of the 
sender is not valid and he didnt give his consent to be contacted  in this way.
Co-op says it sent the e-mails and they are not fraudulent. It says Mr S agreed to the 
account terms and conditions which state that contact may be made by e-mail. Co-op says 
the e-mails are not marketing e-mails but contain important information. It says its reminded 
Mr S that it would not send, by e-mail, personal information or ask him to log onto his 
account via an e-mail.
Mr S brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Co-op  had acted fairly. The 
adjudicator thought that any data breach complaint should be made to the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO). The adjudicator didnt think it unreasonable  for Co-op  to 
contact Mr S by e-mail and had acted in line with the account terms and conditions by doing 
so.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says it is his right not to have marketing e-mails sent to 
him. He also says there is a wider problem about this issue  which  he says needs  
addressing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about this issue.  I also confirm  that I 
have read Mr Ss latest letter  to us but have summarised its content.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions, which I think  Mr S would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And Im satisfied that those terms and conditions make  clear 
that Co-op may contact Mr S by e-mail.  So I dont  think Co-op  made a mistake by sending  
Mr S the e-mails.  And whilst I appreciate Mr S says they are fraudulent, I can see that Co-op  
has told us and Mr S that it sent them and that they were authentic.  So I dont think  the e-
mails were fraudulent and I also dont  think Co-op  acted unreasonably by communicating 
with Mr S in that way.
I appreciate Mr S says there may have been a breach of his personal data. And as the 
adjudicator has explained  that sort of complaint  should be made to the ICO. But having  
looked at the e-mails that Co-op sent Mr S, I cant see that any personal information was 
contained within them. And Im satisfied that Co-op  has repeated its security advice to Mr S 
about what may appear in an e-mail or letter from it.
I accept that Mr S is entitled  to opt out of any marketing material that is sent by Co-op.  But 
for the reasons Ive explained I dont think the e-mails  Mr S has provided to us were 
Ref: DRN61391682marketing e-mails. But e-mails  that contained  important information that Co-op wanted to tell 
him about his account.
I appreciate that Mr S says there is a wider problem with the use of e-mails in this type of 
situation. But we are not the regulator  of banks and building societies and I cant  fairly 
interfere in how a business operates or in how it exercises its commercial judgement in 
deciding how to communicate with its customers.
Overall Im satisfied that Co-op hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6139168