K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that the vehicle he acquired  on a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  trading as Alphera Financial Services  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He wants the cost of repairs and hiring a replacement  vehicle to be 
refunded.
background
Mr D tells us he acquired  the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as J on 16 June 2018. He 
says that on the day of supply he noticed a warning  light was showing a suspension fault. 
But says he was assured by J that this would  clear. When this didnt happen he says he was 
advised to take the vehicle for a diagnostic test. And this showed  a fault code. He says J 
didnt repair  this fault. Mr D stated that the vehicle broke down in December 2018  with a 
seized engine. He says he tried to get Alphera  to help with this. But he explains that he was 
kept waiting for almost  three months  for a response. And that his complaint was then 
rejected. Mr D states that he hired  a vehicle during the period  he was unable  to drive  his own 
vehicle.
Alphera told us that itd arranged for an independent inspection to be carried  out by a 
company Ill refer to as DK. It said this didnt confirm the issues  with the vehicle were  
present at the point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 May 2020. I explained that I was 
minded to uphold  the complaint. I said that the vehicle  had broken  down  within six months of 
supply. And in my opinion  it wasnt of satisfactory quality as it lacked durability. I thought 
Alphera should pay for the repairs which Mr D had arranged when it had rejected his 
complaint.
Mr D has replied accepting my provisional  decision.  Alphera acknowledged receipt and said 
it would  reply with further comments. But Ive not received anything else. As no new 
information has been supplied I see no reason to change my provisional decision.  This is 
largely repeated  in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since making his original  complaint Mr D notified  us in June 2019  of further issues with the 
vehicle, including  having to replace the air conditioning gas and further suspension issues. I 
want to make it clear Im not looking at these matters as I think  they would need to be dealt 
with by a separate complaint. Theyve  arisen around  12 months  after supply. For BMW to be 
held responsible for these latest  issues its up to Mr D to show that the vehicle did not 
conform to contract at the point of supply due to these faults.
Mr Ds hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMW supplied the vehicle and its therefore  
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. Relevant  legislation here includes the Consumer Rights  
Act 2015 (CRA). 
Ref: DRN64837102Briefly summarised, this says that in order to conform  to contract  goods  must be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality is defined as being  what  a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory  taking into account issues  which  
include - but are not limited to - price; relevant circumstances such  as age and previous use; 
and durability.
Ive been supplied with a substantial amount  of information by both parties. And Ive taken 
this all on board. If I dont refer to a particular item its because  I dont  think its necessary to 
make a separate reference to it in order to give the reasons  for my decision.
At the time of supply  the vehicle was about  four years  old and had covered 66,635 miles. 
Thats probably a bit above average but not extraordinarily so. The cash price of the vehicle  
was £35,900.  So whilst  it wasnt  new, in my opinion a reasonable person would expect a 
vehicle with this price tag to have plenty of active life to come. It certainly wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  it to experience a catastrophic breakdown within  six months of supply. 
There have been  various reports about the condition of this vehicle. These have ranged from 
simple diagnostic tests to more detailed inspections.  Its fair to say that theres a limited  
degree of common ground  contained within the reports. But as a starting point Ill identify the 
information which I think is most relevant to this complaint.
Mr D reported a warning  light relating to the vehicles suspension on the day of supply. This 
appeared to be confirmed  by a diagnostic test a few days later. I think that this fault probably  
wouldve meant that Mr D had the opportunity  to reject the vehicle. But the short  term right to 
reject contained within  the CRA has to be exercised within 30 days of supply. And I cant  see 
that Mr D did this. Nor it seems did he return it to J for repairs.
The vehicle was serviced in November 2018 by a company Ill call H. But it later broke  
down. Theres a report from the breakdown service which  recovered  the vehicle, dated  1 
December 2019,  to say it suspected the breakdown  was due to the cam belt snapping or 
engine seizure.  This was confirmed by a diagnostic  report, dated  3 December, from a 
company Ill call F. This described  the engine as having failed prematurely.
Mr D tried to reject  the vehicle on 3 December. The issues were seemingly unrelated to the 
earlier faults reported. As Ive seen no information to show any previous attempts to repair 
the vehicle had been made I believe Alphera wouldve had the right to arrange for repairs  to 
be done.
Not unreasonably - as there was still a doubt  about  whether the breakdown was caused  by 
issues present at the point of supply - the vehicle was subject to additional inspections. 
There were two further reports the first of which was carried  out by DK on 3 January 2019. 
DK stated  that the vehicle shouldnt have  been sold to anybody in the first place due it said 
to lack of professional care. But it said the vehicle would need to be stripped down to 
determine the specific cause of the breakdown.
The other report was conducted by a company Ill refer to as A. This concluded that the 
breakdown was probably due to the failure of the nearside camshaft drive chain. Its fair to 
characterise this report as being directed more towards showing that the breakdown couldnt 
be attributed to the servicing of the vehicle by H, in November 2019.  But it did suggest a 
replacement engine assembly would be required along with other  accessories.
Ref: DRN64837103After Alphera  had rejected his complaint at the start of March 2019 Mr D had the vehicle  
repaired. A replacement  engine  was fitted,  on 5 March 2019, by a company Ill call G. This 
cost £5,500.
And on 8 March 2019 a company Ill call W did repairs relating to the suspension. The 
invoice shows that this cost £300.
Where information is unclear, incomplete or facts are in dispute - as is the case  here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
That this vehicle experienced a major  breakdown in early December 2018 is one of the few 
areas of complaint which arent in dispute. The various reports  are largely inconclusive  as to 
the exact cause  of this failure. Although it seems  probable the camshaft chain failure  
identified by A was a material factor.
This catastrophic breakdown  occurred within six months of supply. Consequently, the CRA 
presumes the vehicle didnt conform to contract at the point of supply unless its proved 
otherwise. In my opinion  Alphera hasnt done so. The mileage covered by Mr D - around 
7,000 since supply  - isnt excessive.  And in these  circumstances a vehicle costing this 
amount of money  shouldnt be expected to require such major  repairs within such  a short  
time. Whatever the specific cause of the failure, I think the vehicle lacked durability.
Ordinarily Id have  required Alphera to arrange for repairs  to be carried out. And Id expect it 
to turn to J to ensure  this was done.  But as Alphera turned down Mr Ds complaint  he was 
left with little alternative  but to make other arrangements. So I think  its fair and reasonable 
that he should be able to recover the costs of repair.
Its also right that he should  be compensated for the period he was without the car. Mr D has 
provided an invoice  for a replacement hire vehicle. But I consider the cost (£9,765) to be 
excessive. He was required  to make a reasonable attempt  to mitigate any loss he incurred.
Bearing in mind hes making monthly payments of around £380 per month I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to expect  BMW  to refund the additional cost above this. Mr D 
was without his vehicle from 1 December 2018 to 8 March 2019. Thats about one week  over 
three months. Mr Ds monthly  instalments  are £380.95. Hes entitled to have the payments 
hes made for this period  refunded.
In summary,  I find on a balance of probabilities  that the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
at the point of supply.  And that it failed to conform to contract  as it lacked durability. Mr D 
should be refunded the cost of repairs. And he should also be refunded  the equivalent 
monthly payments  for the period he was without the vehicle.
For completeness, I note that Mr D reports the vehicles mileage to be 86,245  at 20 May 
2020. And I see it passed an MOT  in May 2019.  Following  repairs the vehicle seems to have 
covered the average mileage that might reasonably be expected.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN64837104In full and final settlement  of the complaint I require BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services to take the following action:
1.Refund the cost of vehicle repairs to Mr D. This consists of £5,500 for the 
replacement engine.  And £300 for the suspension.  A total of £5,800;
2.Refund monthly payments for the period 1 December 2018  to 8 March  2019 inclusive 
(pro rata where  necessary);
3.Pay £100 to Mr D for distress and inconvenience.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to sums arising from 1 and 2 
above from the date of payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6483710