K820x#14complaint
Mr A has said Yorkshire Building Society  (YBS),  trading  as Chelsea Building Society at the 
time, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. 
The mortgage was in joint names between  Mr A and the late Mrs A. As the PPI only covered 
Mr A, and Mrs A has sadly passed away, I will only refer to Mr A in this decision. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr A bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mr A applied for the mortgage and PPI policy. But based 
on the paperwork Ive seen, I think its more likely than not the sale took place in a meeting. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr A for accident, sickness, hospitalisation and unemployment 
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  It offered  to repay  £222  a month towards  Mr and 
Mrs As mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £11.07  a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr A was employed as an admin and finance co-ordinator He has told us he was 
entitled to at least three months sick pay and some  redundancy  pay from his employer at 
the time,  as well as having £15,000 in savings. Mr A has said he was in good health  at the 
time. Mrs A was retired.
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2007.
Mr As representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr As representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr As representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr A about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr A and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN63618832The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr A received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As complaint
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN63618833The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr As 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether YBS gave  Mr A sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN63618834-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr A suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr A and YBS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr A know  he had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
YBS has provided a copy of the mortgage  application completed  at the time. Part 9 of the 
application is titled Insurance Details. I can see there are three options for PPI  
to take PPI;
to make your own arrangements for insurance;  or
to decline to take out PPI. 
I can see the option to take PPI has been selected.  As Mr A has signed the application, I 
think its reasonable to conclude  he was happy  with the selections made.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr A knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
YBS says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr A disagrees and has said advice was 
given. Looking at what happened when YBS sold Mr A the PPI, and how its presented  in the 
mortgage application, Im not persuaded that it provided advice.  I accept YBS might have 
told Mr A it was a good idea to consider whether he wanted  the cover  provided by the PPI 
but this isnt the same as advising him that it would be good  for him, given his particular 
circumstances.
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr A. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN63618835the information
While I dont know what Mr A was told during  the meeting about the PPI, the section of the 
mortgage application form that deals  with it gave him a broad  description of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr A was unable 
to work through accident, sickness, hospitalisation  and unemployment). There  doesnt seem 
to be any information  about the cost or benefit  of the PPI on this form, but it did say full 
details of the policy would be sent to him shortly after he received YBSs  offer of advance. I 
can see Mr A was sent a letter the day after the offer of advance  that says Your policy will 
be set up based  on the detail of cover overleaf. And while I havent got a copy  of the other  
side of this letter, its likely the cost and monthly  benefit of the PPI would have been included  
in the detail of cover.  This letter also referred to a leaflet  and summary  of cover being  
provided. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost, how long the policy would pay 
out for or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mr A agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think YBS gave Mr A sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr As representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr As. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr As representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr A has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that YBS ought to have  done  either. 
Ref: DRN63618836what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr A? To what extent did Mr A suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr A. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  he suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr A would have still 
taken out the policy,  had YBS done  things properly. 
Mr A says he would  not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr A had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr A chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr A thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr A has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr A knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear YBS told him the exact premium at the point he applied  for 
the policy. Having  said that, it looks like Mr A would have been told the cost before the policy 
started and he paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at 
odds with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible  he might have raised that with 
YBS at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr A would have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting where  he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  YBS made clear exactly  what Mr A would get back in return in 
the event Mr A made a successful claim before he agreed to take it. But again, it looks  like 
he was sent this information  before the policy started.  And I think its unlikely Mr As 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet his mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr A thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims if the disability or hospitalisation was as a result  of 
oof any existing, physical or mental  defect, infirmity,  recurring disease or 
chronic or continuing disease of which Mr A was aware of at the start date; 
oany sickness, disease,  condition  or injury  whether diagnosed or not that Mr A 
received advice, treatment or counselling about from a doctor during the 
period of 12 months before  the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr A 
wasnt a permanent employee;
Ref: DRN63618837The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr A would need to 
be prevented from engaging  in his normal occupation or any similar work which his 
knowledge, training and ability reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr A pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr A from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr As circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr A was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr A 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr A didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr A might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr A 
from taking out the policy,  Mr A, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr A had known he could only claim for disability if he was prevented from engaging in his 
normal occupation or any similar work which his knowledge, training and ability  reasonably 
qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking about  what he would have  done.  
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mr A was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his 
own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
YBS may not have  told Mr A that any claim he made would be limited to a 12 month period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months  
was a longer period than Mr A would have received sick pay and, given how long hed been 
working for his employer  at the time, how long any redundancy  pay is likely to have lasted.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr A would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  he be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the 
policy. The policy  allowed  for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his outgoings 
at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensure his home was not placed at risk and might potentially  
help preserve Mr As sick pay, redundancy money and savings for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr A would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if Mr A was made redundant, unable to work through  accident or disability or 
Ref: DRN63618838was hospitalised.  In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not that Mr A would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr A would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr A 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr A in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude YBS should pay Mr A compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr A thinks YBS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr A, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2004 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find YBS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr A and about  the remedy  a court 
Ref: DRN63618839might award if it were  to find that YBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr A in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6361883