K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  didnt  tell him accurately 
about the mobile phone insurance  that came with his packaged bank account.
background
Mr R took out an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in October 2009.
He then upgraded to a Select Platinum Account (SPA) in July 2015.
These accounts provided a range of benefits  including  mobile  phone  insurance. Mr R says 
that when he went to claim on the mobile phone insurance for his daughters phone in 2019, 
he was told her phone wasnt  covered. 
Mr R says that NatWest had told him it was covered and he wants  all his monthly  fees 
returned from the time he was originally sold the AGA.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr R disagrees so the 
complaint has come  to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Rs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
The issue  I need to consider is whether NatWest  told Mr R accurately about  the mobile 
phone insurance  cover. NatWest has provided  copies of the mailings it sent Mr R on multiple 
occasions prior to his claim in 2019.
In my view these were sufficiently clear to tell him that his daughters  mobile phone  would  
not be covered  by the SPA insurance in 2019.
I note that Mr R says that NatWests advertising at the time of his claim could be interpreted  
as saying that his daughters phone was covered and this was wrong; and NatWest has 
offered him £50 compensation for this. 
But I have to consider  what  Mr R should  reasonably have known based on the 
communication he received directly from NatWest.  And I think he had sufficient clear  
individual communication  from NatWest  for him to know  that the monthly fee he was paying  
for the SPA did not provide mobile  phone insurance for his daughters  phone.
So I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN69281292Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6928129