K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the way Legal & General Insurance  Limited  handled his claim  for an 
escape of water under his buildings insurance policy.
background
In June 2016 Mr Fs property suffered extensive damage when a hot-water tap in an upstairs 
bathroom was left running for several hours.
Legal & General accepted  his claim and appointed contractors to carry out repairs,  including  
drying out the property. For part of the time Mr F and his partner,  who sadly had a terminal 
illness and has since died, were  supplied with alternative accommodation.  
 
When Mr F brought his complaint to us in September  2018  the claim was still ongoing. Mr F 
was unhappy  with the quality of the work done  by the contractors and some things hadnt 
been finished.
During its own investigation of Mr Fs concerns Legal & General accepted that the claim  
hadnt been well handled. It said thered been  a lack of pro-active management and poor 
communication resulting in unacceptable delays. It also said the arrangements  for alternative 
accommodation could  have been managed better. To compensate  for that it paid Mr F £500.  
Later, following further delays, it offered a further  £450 compensation.
With regard to Mr Fs complaint about shoddy  and unfinished work Legal & General decided 
to ask the surveyor it had appointed at the outset to go back to the property and re-inspect. 
The re-inspection was completed in August 2018  and the report, which  lists the areas Mr F 
had issues with, says we have reviewed these areas and are in agreement  these are 
outstanding/completed poorly. It recommended that all work be completed as per the report 
and scope of work.
Legal & General sent this report to its contractors who, in effect, said that any 
outstanding/poor work was either not caused by them or not caused by the original escape 
of water.  The contractors  said thered been a second leak,  after the initial  claim.
Mr F says that the second leak  referred  to was, in fact, a small amount of water which  ran 
down the side of the bath from the shower.  He says it caused  a small water stain on the 
ceiling below  (there was no bathroom  floor at the time because  of delays with the original 
claim) but was not part of the work complained  about or one of the things highlighted in the 
surveyors re-inspection report.
Ref: DRN62808422Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and explained why in his letter  of 
24 July 2019.  He said that as the outstanding/poor  work identified in the re-inspection  report  
appeared to be in the same areas affected by the original leak it was reasonable to suppose  
they were part of the original damage, or caused  by the repairs.  So he thought 
Legal & General should either complete the work or pay Mr F a cash amount to settle the 
claim. He also thought  Legal & General should  pay Mr F for repairs to the bathroom  which  
hed undertaken  himself  and a further £500  for the additional distress  and inconvenience  
hed been caused. 
Mr F broadly agreed with this but made  clear that he wouldnt  want the original contractors 
back in his house. Legal & General didnt agree and relied on the response of its contractors 
to deny further responsibility.
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I broadly agree with our investigators conclusions. Ive looked at the original and the 
re-inspection report provided by the surveyors. It seems to me that the areas which  are still 
in issue are the same areas damaged as a result  of the initial  escape  of water.  
Mr F has provided  a reasonable explanation for what the contractors refer to as a second  
leak and theres nothing  in the re-inspection report to suggest damage was caused by a 
later leak.
It was Legal & Generals decision to ask its own surveyor  to carry out the re-inspection so I 
think its reasonable to rely on that report rather than comments from the contractors 
responsible for the work.
Outstanding work set out in the 2018  report
The re-inspection report recommended that all work be completed as per the report  and 
scope of work. 
Part of the work outstanding included  raising the level of the floor in the lounge so there  was 
no longer a step  where the lounge  carpet  met the laminate flooring of the hall. However,  
Mr F has said that he doesnt want the floor raised  and is only looking for a buffer to be 
fixed where the floor levels change.
Our investigator thought the outstanding work should be completed except for raising the 
level of the lounge floor. That was because Mr F had accepted a cash  settlement for the 
lounge flooring so that he could have carpet fitted  instead of laminate.
I agree  with our investigator. I think Legal & General should  complete the outstanding work  
set out in the 2018 report with the exception of the work to the lounge floor. I think  it would 
have been reasonable  for any buffer between the two floor coverings to be installed as part 
of the carpet fitting, so I wouldnt expect Legal & General to pay for it now. 
Ref: DRN62808423I note that Mr F says he doesnt want the original contractors back in his house.  Given  the 
history of the complaint, and the fact that the contractors dont accept the work  is 
unsatisfactory, I can understand that. 
In the circumstances I think Legal & General should  appoint different contractors to finish  
and make good the repairs.  Alternatively it may wish to cash  settle the remaining claim with 
Mr F. If it does, and Mr F agrees to that, he will need  to understand that the repairs will then 
become his responsibility and he will have no further recourse against Legal & General. 
Legal & General should also ensure that the rates it calculates its cash settlement on are 
publically available rates, rather than being  based on any preferential rates it can obtain  from 
its own contractors.
Work to the bathroom
Damage to the bathroom floor was included in the original  scope  of work in 2016.  However,  I 
understand that because of the delay, and because Mr F wanted to refurbish the bathroom 
anyway, he completed  the work himself. Mr F has asked Legal & General to pay only for 
work necessarily done as a result of the original escape of water. Our investigator thought 
that was reasonable and I agree. Legal  & General should reimburse Mr F the cost of repairs 
to the bathroom  included  in the original scope  of work.
Damp proof work
Im aware that Mr F has recently provided a quotation from a damp-proofing company. One 
of the issues he raised  is that in removing the plasterwork the contractors invalidated an 
existing damp-proof  warranty and may have used the wrong sort of plaster. However, 
making good the plastering is one of the areas covered in the 2016 and 2018 reports. Its the 
fact that the escape of water happened that has caused the warranty to be invalidated (if it 
has been),  rather than anything Legal  & General has done.  So Im not persuaded it would be 
reasonable to go beyond  requiring Legal  & General to complete the necessary repairs.
Compensation
I agree  with our investigator that it would be fair for Legal & General to pay another  £500  
compensation (in additional to what it has already paid) for the further distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr F by its poor handling of this claim.
Ref: DRN62808424my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Legal & General  Insurance Limited  to:
appoint new contractors to finish or make  good  the outstanding work  set out in its 
surveyors report of 10 August 2018 (excluding  work  to the lounge floor)  or, if Mr F 
agrees, make a cash settlement for the outstanding  works;
settle Mr Fs claim for the costs he incurred in reinstating the bathroom, but only as 
included in the original scope of work  and not including any betterment;  and
pay Mr F an additional £500  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6280842