K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) didnt 
tell her that her life assurance policy would lapse.  Ms D is represented in this complaint by 
her daughter, but to keep things simple  Ill refer only to Ms D.
background
In 1999 Ms D took out a life assurance policy with Sun Life. The benefits provided by the 
policy included life cover,  critical illness cover  and permanent disability benefit. It was an 
investment based  policy and so Sun Life reviewed  the policy  every  five years to make sure 
the premiums Ms D was paying were still enough  to provide the level of protection she 
wanted. It carried out reviews in 2003  and 2008  and in both those reviews it told Ms D shed 
need to pay higher premiums, which Ms D agreed to. 
Sun Life reviewed the policy in 2013, and in December 2013 it sent Ms D a letter to say 
shed need to increase her premiums if she wanted to receive the same level of protection  
for the next five years. The letter said Ms D could call Sun Life to discuss her options  but that 
if it didnt hear from her, her premiums and level of protection would stay the same and so 
her policy would probably lapse within the next five years. Sun Life sent Ms D a reminder 
letter in January 2014 but didnt hear back from Ms D. 
In September  2017 the policy lapsed.  Sun Life wrote  to Ms D to let her know and to tell her 
the policy could  perhaps be reinstated, and she could  contact it to see if this was possible. 
Ms D says she didnt receive  the two review letters  Sun Life sent her in December 2013 and 
January 2014.  And that the annual statements it sent her in later years didnt mention that 
review or that her policy would lapse. Ms D says Sun Life could have called or emailed her 
about the review  but didnt - she only found out her policy had lapsed when she received 
Sun Lifes letter of September  2017, and it then wouldnt reinstate her policy. Ms D was 
unhappy about this so she complained to Sun Life. 
In its final response,  Sun Life said it hadnt  done  anything wrong. It said it sent the 2013 
review letters to the address it held for Ms D and the policy  lapsed in line with its terms and 
conditions. But it thought Ms D would have  responded to the 2013  review if shed known the 
outcome, and said it could  have done  more to advise Ms D that her policy would  be lapsing. 
As a gesture  of goodwill, it offered to reinstate Ms Ds policy,  subject to Ms D completing an 
acceptable health declaration and paying the outstanding premiums. 
But it said that because  of the passage  of time, the premiums it quoted Ms D in the 2013 
review werent now enough  to cover the level of protection shed wanted. So it said Ms D 
needed to choose between paying higher premiums or receiving a lower level of protection. 
Ms D wanted her policy to be reinstated with the premiums Sun Life had quoted  in the 2013 
review, so she asked our service to investigate.  
Our investigator talked  further with Ms D and Sun Life. Ultimately, she thought Ms Ds policy  
wouldnt have lapsed if Sun Life had done  more. To put things right,  our investigator said:
Sun Life should reinstate Ms Ds policy from when it lapsed in September  2017.
Ms D should pay the premiums she would have been paying  since  September  2017,  
and Sun Life should  arrange a repayment  plan with Ms D.
It wasnt fair for Sun Life to ask Ms D for a health  declaration, as her policy  shouldnt  
have lapsed in the first place. 
Ref: DRN61907312Sun Life didnt think it should set up a repayment  plan for Ms D or that it was unfair  to ask for 
a health declaration. Because  Sun Life disagreed, this complaint was passed  to me to make  
a decision. I asked Sun Life for copies of what it had sent to Ms D about  the 2013  review or 
her policy lapsing,  as well as the policy terms and conditions.  Sun Life provided these. 
After considering all the evidence,  I contacted  Ms D and Sun Life to share my thoughts  as I 
intended to reach a different conclusion  to the investigator whod looked at things  previously.  
I thought Sun Life had made reasonable efforts to contact Ms D about the 2013 review,  that 
the policy had lapsed in line with the terms and conditions, and that it was reasonable for 
Sun Life to put conditions  on reinstating  the policy. So I wasnt intending to ask it to do 
anything further.
Sun Life said it had nothing further to add. Ms D provided copies of the 2004 and 2008 
review letters she received and made further comments, which  can be summarised as:
Ms D didnt  receive Sun Lifes 2013 letters and had other post go missing  around that 
time too. Sun Life should  have sent the review  letters in a way that guaranteed  delivery 
and followed up when  it didnt receive a response.
Sun Life admits it could have done  more to communicate with her about  the review.  But 
instead it just sent her two letters a month apart  and didnt write to her again about  the 
review or the policy lapsing until years  later in 2017.
Ms D would have responded if shed received the review  letters,  which Sun Life accepts. 
Sun Life has offered  to reinstate the policy because it recognises it should have followed 
things up after sending  the review letters.
Ms D isnt financially  experienced and was encouraged and helped  to take out the policy 
by a friend who worked for the company later taken over by Sun Life. She carried  on 
making payments  thinking she was safeguarding the future.
Ms D cant afford to pay the outstanding  premiums in one go, but could pay monthly 
premiums of £131.22 if she receives  the same level of benefit she started with.
Its unfair to ask Ms D for a medical  report, as this will be costly  and wouldnt be 
necessary if Sun Life had communicated as it should have.
After considering further, I let Sun Life and Ms D know I also intended to say Sun Life should 
only ask Ms D for medical information  in the form of a health declaration - from when the 
policy lapsed, and it should also cover the cost of a doctors report if one becomes 
necessary as part of that health  declaration. 
Sun Life agreed. And Ms D agreed, but said again that she cant  pay the outstanding 
premiums in one lump sum. Ive now gone  on to make my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this isnt the answer  Ms D wanted, but Ill explain  my reasons.
Ive seen that Sun Life accepts it could have done more to communicate with Ms D, and its 
now reviewing how it communicates. But that doesnt necessarily mean  Sun Life was wrong 
to communicate  in the way it did at that time.  Thats because Sun Life wasnt  obliged to do 
any more than write to Ms D about  the review, which is what it did  it wrote  to her in 
December 2013  and then again in January 2014. And it wasnt  obliged  to follow  things up 
Ref: DRN61907313with her when she didnt respond. So Im satisfied  Sun Life took reasonable steps  to let Ms D 
know about the 2013 review. 
Ive seen that Sun Life sent the two 2013  review  letters to the address it held for Ms D at the 
time, the same address  at which she later received statements from Sun Life. So Im 
satisfied Sun Life sent these letters  correctly.  Its unfortunate  Ms D didnt receive them and 
Im sorry  to hear of the difficulties she had with her post around that time. But Sun Life 
wasnt obliged to send  letters in a way that guaranteed delivery, for example by recorded  
delivery or courier. And it wouldnt be fair to hold Sun Life responsible for any problems Ms D 
had with her postal service.
 
Ms D didnt respond to those letters, so her premiums and level of protection stayed the 
same. But as Sun Life had said in the review letters, the premiums were  no longer enough to 
pay for that level of protection. So there was a difference between  the premiums  Ms D was 
actually paying  and the premiums needed to keep  the same level of protection. To keep the 
policy going, this difference  was taken from the policys investment fund. As a result,  the 
investment fund began  to be used up and the annual statements Ive seen suggest that by 
2017 there wasnt enough left to continue covering the difference  in premiums. 
As a result, the policy lapsed and Sun Life wrote to Ms D to tell her that in September  2017. 
The terms and conditions  of Ms Ds policy say that if, following a review, Ms D didnt act on 
Sun Lifes advice to either increase  her premiums or decrease her level of protection,  then 
Sun Life would  no longer  guarantee  that the policy or its benefits would remain  in force.  So 
Im satisfied the policy lapsed in line with the terms and conditions.
Ms D says that if she had received the 2013  review  letters, she would have taken  the 
necessary steps  to make sure her policy continued.  I dont doubt  Ms Ds sincerity  here,  and 
I can see that when  she found her policy  had lapsed, she did ask Sun Life if it could be 
reinstated. And Sun Life is offering to reinstate it  not because it agrees it did anything 
wrong, but as a gesture  of goodwill. To be clear,  this is something Sun Life is offering  to do 
and not something  Im telling it to do. As Ive said, I dont  think Sun Life made an error 
regarding the review letters or the policy lapsing, so Im satisfied it doesnt need to do 
anything to put this right.
The policy terms and conditions say that if Sun Life agrees to reinstate a policy, it can 
impose conditions  on that. So Im satisfied its entitled to impose conditions. Ive looked at 
the particular condition its imposing in this case - its asking Ms D to complete a declaration 
of continuing good health for its underwriter  to consider. More  than two years have passed 
since the policy lapsed, and things can change over time. Therefore its not unreasonable of 
Sun Life to want up to date information about  the risks its being asked to cover. But I think it 
should only ask Ms D to complete the declaration  from the time the policy lapsed, as shes  
already paid for the cover it provided  when the policy was live. And if a doctors report  
becomes necessary as part of that declaration,  then I think  Sun Life should  pay for it as its 
information Sun Life is asking for. 
Sun Life has asked Ms D to choose how she would like to pay for her reinstated  policy. Its 
said that to have the same level of protection she had at the start,  she must choose  to either:
Pay monthly premiums of £131.22  plus a lump sum to cover the backdated  
premiums (these  stood at £2,062  in January 2019  but might  now have increased). 
The backdated premiums  are the premiums Ms D would have paid if her policy  had 
Ref: DRN61907314continued, which she says is what she would have wanted if shed received the 2013 
review letters.
Or:
If no backdated premiums are paid, Ms D could pay monthly premiums of £148.06 
until the next review  in 2023. Sun Life says a large premium  increase would be 
needed at this review  because  the policy would have been  reinstated  with no value.
I dont think this is an unreasonable offer for Sun Life to make. Ms D says she cant  afford to 
pay a lump sum to cover the backdated  premiums and I acknowledge this. But since I dont 
think Sun Life made an error, it wouldnt be fair for me to say it must offer Ms D a repayment 
arrangement. In any case, Sun Life has offered her a way of reinstating  her policy without 
having to pay the backdated  premiums all at once upfront.  If Ms D has any questions  about 
the payment options Sun Life is offering, she should ask Sun Life for clarification.
I know Ms D says shes not financially experienced, but thats  not something I can hold Sun 
Life responsible  for. Ms D has said she was encouraged and helped to take out this policy  by 
a friend  who worked  for the business  later taken  over by Sun Life. If Ms D feels an agent of 
Sun Life gave her poor advice, she could complain to Sun Life about that. And if shes 
unhappy with its response she could refer her complaint to our service.
I therefore leave  it to Ms D to decide whether she wants to accept Sun Lifes conditions  in 
return for reinstatement  of her policy. If Ms D wants to accept, she should contact Sun Life. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6190731