K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way his home insurance claim for water  damage was dealt with by 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc.
 
background
In April 2018 Mr C made  a claim to RSA following a burst pipe in his property causing 
damage to the flooring in his kitchen and living room. RSA sent out a loss adjuster  and 
drying out was arranged.  Mr C was asked to select his choice of replacement flooring in the 
kitchen and living room.  However RSA said that the flooring he selected  was a better quality 
one than the one that was there. Mr C was given a list of retailers  in his local area but he 
complained that the retailers RSA wanted to use gave a more  costly quote than other 
retailers not on RSAs  approved list. He felt he should be able to use the retailer  he wanted.  
However RSA said he could only use its contractors/retailers  and either pay the difference 
between its assessed  cost and his preferred choice, accept the lower cost flooring or accept 
a cash settlement. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this and pointed out that RSA says that it wont  take into account 
VAT when  paying  a cash settlement. He further  sys that RSA has not given accurate 
measurements for his flooring and that it had agreed  to send a sample of the flooring away  
to be checked   he hadnt had the result  of that sample testing.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought RSA had dealt with the claim fairly.
Mr C disagreed and pointed out that he still hadnt had the result  of the sample testing  from 
RSA.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
use of approved retailers
RSA is entitled  to use its own preferred suppliers and the policy  allows for this. We say this 
is fair, as if RSA arranges to carry out the repairs then it will be responsible  for the quality of 
the repairs. If it were to be obliged to use any supplier nominated by the policyholder  then it 
could potentially be liable for repairs carried out by a supplier it didnt approve of. In those 
cases it is entitled to offer a cash settlement to the consumer  who can then use any supplier  
they wish. If as Mr C says he has found  suppliers that are less costly than those quoted by 
RSA then he could  use the cash settlement and instruct those suppliers. Although  in that 
case RSA wouldnt be responsible for the quality of the repairs.
Mr C has pointed out that under the buildings section of his insurance RSA says:  No 
allowance will be made for VAT when  a cash settlement is made . I took this point up with 
RSA who said:
..a cash settlement is usually made  in lieu of repairs.  No goods or services have been 
purchased and therefore are not subject  to VAT.  This is why we often ask customers to 
Ref: DRN67328252provide us with the VAT invoice when theyve had repairs carried  out and we will pay the 
VAT element of the claim on the basis of the cash settlement.  This is because VAT will only 
be applicable  on delivery of the goods or services.  
So, if Mr C opts to receive cash settlement, as long as the overall cost inclusive of VAT is 
less than RSAs  own suppliers costs (again inclusive of VAT) he could initially  receive  the 
settlement exclusive of VAT. Then when he is invoiced for the repairs  he could  send that 
invoice to RSA and receive the VAT. 
type of flooring/analysis of samples
Im not clear whether Mr C believes the flooring is of better quality  than RSA has said it is or 
if he just disagrees with the colour/type of wood. With regard to the kitchen tiles, the 
particular type was no longer available and Mr C disagreed with RSAs assessment of the 
nearest match, He did however point out that RSAs contractor had told him it was sending  
off an independent sample  to determine if the inspector had based the flooring on like for like 
quality, but hadnt had the result of that. Again I took this up with RSA who confirmed that a 
sample of the flooring was sent off for analysis on 9 October 2018 and the result was that it 
was happy with the original inspectors analysis.
As RSA has carried out an inspection of the tiles and laminate flooring I think it has 
assessed the cost of this fairly.  As the flooring  was quite  old no exact  match could be 
supplied but I think RSA has acted reasonably in the circumstances. Again, Mr C can opt to 
receive a cash settlement  instead.
measurements
Mr C insists that the measurements  are wrong.  As the measurements were carried out twice  
by RSA Im not in a position  to say that they were wrong. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6732825