K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complained they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance  
(MPPI) policy by Coventry Building  Society  (CBS), in 1997. They say they were told they 
needed to have the policy with their mortgage  and they felt pressured  into taking it.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said they thought the complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs E disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when  deciding  this 
case.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
I began by looking at whether I thought  Mr and Mrs E agreed to the cover  and would have 
known it was optional.
The sale is said to have  taken place over the telephone, in October 1997. However, I think 
there would have also been  some  written correspondence too. This is now over 21 years 
ago and so its not particularly unusual,  or indeed, unreasonable that CBS doesnt  still have 
the actual paperwork  associated with the sale. Businesses arent required to keep records  
indefinitely and theres no recording of a phone  call.
Nevertheless, weve been sent a number of example documents  which  CBS would have 
used at the time and Ive used these   together with my extensive experience of MPPI  sales 
 to think about what is more likely to have happened.  
I think its likely that Mr and Mrs E would have initially been asked to complete some 
documentation associated  with their mortgage.  I think there would have been a section 
within their mortgage  application papers about  MPPI and I think  they would  have probably  
needed to first indicate an interest  regarding this type of policy, possibly then speaking to 
someone on the phone thereafter.
Their central point of complaint is that they were  told the MPPI  was compulsory. And whilst 
this may be their recollection  now, Im afraid the evidence points very strongly the other way 
 I think they were given  a choice and the MPPI  was something they wanted to have. 
I say this because  the Mortgage Offer  forms that CBS used at the time would  have included  
information about the MPPI, showing it was something Mr and Mrs E had a choice about 
taking. Given this is an important document, I think they would have wanted to carefully read 
that. I also see that the provider of the cover was a third party insurer, requiring  the 
completion of a separate direct  debit. And they only elected for Mr E to be covered (although  
this later changed),  which to me indicates  an element of choice.
Ref: DRN62348182But most of all, I note Mr and Mrs E kept this cover for a number of years.  This was a 
standalone policy with a major insurance  company and during that time,  Mr and Mrs E 
appear to have periodically  engaged  with the provider about the operation of the policy.  
I can see, for example, that they made several  significant changes to the cover to suit their 
changing requirements. This involved  changing the named person(s) and / or the level of 
benefit on the policy, on at least three occasions.  Changes were made to the cover even 
after Mr and Mrs E changed their mortgage provider. So Im afraid I find it unlikely that they 
would have added and changed the cover in these  ways  for a policy they didnt ever want  
and felt pressured into taking.
I also note they received  numerous policy updates over the subsequent years where the 
cover was clearly described  as optional. Although these  were well after the 1997  date of 
sale, Mr and Mrs E continued to keep and use the cover for many  years and correspond with 
the provider.  To me this adds substantial weight to them  wanting  the MPPI  cover in the first 
place.
Finally, I also now know  they made  a number of successful claims on this policy, totalling 
over £3,000. 
So what  Ive seen shows its much  more likely Mr and Mrs E would have been able to see, at 
the point of sale, that the policy wasnt something they needed to buy. And their later 
engagements with the provider show they continued  to see the MPPI as something that 
fitted their circumstances and was of use to them. 
I think CBS properly obtained Mr and Mrs Es consent when it sold the policy in 1997.
I havent seen  anything that would  make me think this was an advised  sale so this means  
CBSs responsibility  was limited to giving information that was clear, so Mr and Mrs E could 
make their own,  informed decision about  whether or not to buy the cover. 
Obviously after such a long time Im not able to confirm  this happened or that they were told 
everything they ought to have been.  But as Ive said, the information  I have  clearly  shows  
that Mr and Mrs E were well aware  of the policy. They  knew  who it was set up to protect and 
what eventualities it covered. I see Mr and Mrs E say themselves in our questionnaire, that 
the benefit level and monthly premiums were discussed. So I think they had enough 
information when  they were  deciding what to do.
Its possible that CBS could have done more to ensure Mr and Mrs E understood things 
during the sale.  But I dont  think this really matters to the decision about  this case  because I 
think theres strong evidence the cover was something they wanted to have. I also think they 
were eligible  for the cover  and not caught  by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in 
these policies. And at £9.46 per month, I also think the policy  was affordable  for them.
I see Mr and Mrs E would have enjoyed sickness protection with their jobs at the time and I 
agree that it would have probably been quite generous. They  also say they held other  
investments. 
Ive thought carefully about everything theyve told us and I understand the point  being  
made. But again, this doesnt change what I think. As a non-advised sale,  the decision 
about whether  the MPPI suited them was for Mr and Mrs E to make.  This was mortgage 
secured against  their home, so the consequences of them not being  able to keep up 
Ref: DRN62348183payments on it could have  been  serious.  I think the mortgage would have been a long-term 
and important financial commitment and so the policy was, in my view,  of use.  I think this is 
why they decided to buy it and keep  it for a long time, despite their changing circumstances.
In summary,  I think there is strong  and persuasive  evidence that this MPPI was something 
Mr and Mrs E wanted to have. I dont  think it was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint or direct  Coventry Building Society to pay any 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6234818