K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about trustee/fiduciary and portfolio management obligations he says 
were breached by HSBC  Trust  Company  (UK) Ltd (H1) with regards to a trust fund (which  I 
sometimes refer to as Mr Ls fund) he inherited.  Mr L is represented  by solicitors. They say:
H1 did not review risk profiles or objectives with the beneficiaries (including Mr L) of 
the trust fund.
The trust fund was mismanaged from 1999  onwards.
H1 churned the portfolio and/or applied charges/commissions/fees that were 
disproportionate to its size, to its poor performance and to its fall in value.
H1 did not mitigate  the trust funds exposure  to unnecessary capital gains tax (CGT).
H1 conducted  itself with a conflict of interests.
background
The trust fund was established, with H1 as the trustee,  by Mr Ls grandmother for the benefit  
of his mother, who took income from it from around  1980/1981. A deed  of assignment in 
2007 meant the right to receive income from the fund thereafter  was assigned to Mr L (and 
others) but the funds capital  remained within it. H1 explained  that investment advice and 
fund management  roles were delegated to third parties within  the same group  of companies 
(H2 and H3 respectively).  H1 says that despite this arrangement it retained responsibility  as 
trustee and investment manager for the fund.  In 2016 H1s trusteeship ceased and the trust 
fund was vested  in Mr L (and others).
I issued two provisional decisions in this complaint, one on 17 October 2018 (PD1) and the 
other on 9 April 2019 (PD2). Copies of both are attached further below. The abbreviations 
and descriptions  used in this decision are as defined in PD1 and PD2. A summary of the key 
contents in PD2 is as follows:
In terms of the Trust and Fund arrangements, and the portfolio review  allegation,  I 
retained the conclusions reached  in PD1 and said  
I have still not seen  evidence of provisions in the will or trust that gave the 
beneficiaries a basis to take part in or to ask for reviews of the portfolio; the portfolios 
objective, to generate income and grow  capital, was identifiable; H1 does  not appear 
to have been wrong in applying a moderate/balanced  risk profile to the portfolio; and 
it was not unreasonable to have a mix of assets within such  a profile  in order to 
produce the effect of a moderate/balanced portfolio.
With regards to the allegation about mismanagement  from 1999 I provisionally 
concluded that the fund was mismanaged specifically in relation to churning, 
unreasonable charges and mismanagement of its CGT exposure  I referred to these 
matters as the three specific issues. The individual allegations about the three  
specific issues were also provisionally upheld based on evidence  of a questionable  
and significant  increase  in trading activity within the fund from 2005, uneconomical 
trades and the fees/charges attached to them (also from 2005) and deductibles from 
the trusts CGT liability which  were  not used.
With regards to the conflict of interest  allegation,  I said there was arguably some 
merit in it given  the avoidable charges and CGT  exposure in the three specific issues 
which H1 did not avoid for the trust. However, in the main, I said  
Ref: DRN60318182It is possible that a conflict between the interests  of H1, H2, H3 and the trust 
resulted in this. However, overall  and on balance, I am not satisfied that I have  seen 
enough to conclude that such conflict was the probable cause of H1 not upholding 
the interests of the trust in the three specific issues. 
 I consider it safe to provisionally conclude that Mr L has been put into the position 
of having to pursue the present complaint mainly or partly because H1 did not 
prioritise the interests of the trust in the three specific issues. To compensate him for 
the trouble and upset he has been caused in this respect, I provisionally conclude 
that H1 should pay him £500 .
Both parties  were invited  to comment on PD2. Mr L and his solicitors presented 
supplemental submissions from their expert  witness addressing the contents of PD2 and the 
£500 payment  for trouble and upset. The following main submissions were  made:
Beyond the three specific issues, there is evidence of wider  recklessness and 
mismanagement by H1 in the form of its focus  on technology stocks around 1999  
and its failure to use low-cost tracker  funds.
In terms of conflicts of interest,  H1 should establish whether (or not) it received and 
unreasonably retained  mutual fund rebates related to the trust fund.
H1 should  be ordered to meet Mr Ls costs  and expenses (based on the costs  of his 
personal time and the costs of professional assistance from his solicitors, 
accountants and the expert witness) because reasonable third party assistance was 
required and obtained to meet the complexities  of his complaint. The £500 payment 
is significantly insufficient in this respect and a total claim of around £42,000 should 
be considered.
H1 mainly submitted  as follows:
Trading activity in the fund  related to the churning and charges/commission/fees 
allegations  was defined mainly by its need to rebalance the funds risk profile. Prior 
to 1999 gains had accumulated in the fund; around 1999 it decided  to move  the gain 
laden assets into a feeder account separate from the main  portfolio; around 2003 it 
engaged in selling off these assets  over time because they held higher risks than 
others in the fund and they appreciated in value faster than the others,  so the overall  
risk profile of the fund changed;  and between 2006 and 2008 the proceeds of the 
feeder account  sales were reinvested  across  the main portfolio. All of these activities 
legitimately led to the increased  trading  (and related trading  costs) and shows  that 
the increased trading was not due to churning.
Gains management in the fund was important, because it had the potential to 
produce a tangible cash cost to the trust, but risk profile management in the fund was 
more important. Such management  and its reduction of the funds exposure to higher  
risk assets prior to the financial crisis  in 2008/2009 benefited the trust fund.
Its trustee powers allowed it to manage the fund without  responsibility for any loss 
and there is case law that says it was entitled to manage the fund based on its full 
discretion and in line with market conditions and portfolio theory that was current  at 
Ref: DRN60318183the relevant time. In addition,  its fees were consistent with the fee scale  agreed  with 
the testatrix relevant  to the trust fund.
The submissions by Mr Ls expert witness and in relation to the CGT issue are based 
on erroneous figures and tax rates.
Between the 2000/2001  tax year and the 2013/2014  tax year the CGT 
exemption/allowance apportioned to the trust was used well. The fund appreciated by 
over a £100,000,  so the disproportion between this and the sizes  of the allowances  
made CGT liability inevitable in the course  of trading  and the only way to have 
avoided this would have been to leave the fund unmanaged (with no trading).
In response to the allegation about  dealing charges, it considers that it deducted the 
appropriate incidental  costs of making  disposals from the fund.
This service should consider DISP  3.3.4 (14) with regards to our discretion  to dismiss 
a complaint where it is about  a firm exercising its discretion  under a will or private  
trust.
Mr Ls expert witness commented on H1s submissions, mainly  as follows:
His previous submissions continue to stand. However, he apologised for errors in his 
previous CGT related points and resubmitted those points based on H1s figures.
H1s case  for rebalancing the fund through increased trading indicates that it ought to 
have chosen a different portfolio management  strategy from the outset that was more 
suitable for the trust.
With regards to the churning allegation and despite what  H1 has said,  application of 
the regulators rules  to the facts still produces the conclusion that the rebalancing 
efforts (and frequency) described  by H1 gave rise to many uneconomic trades which  
were not in the trusts  interest and which had the effect of churning. In addition, it 
should be noted that the churning  in this case involved crossing the bid offer spread, 
as that caused  extra  costs  and loss of value.
H1 has not explained  why there were so many uneconomical  small  trades which 
would not have had a significant effect on the funds risk profile.  In the course  of 
managing the fund it would have been  better for the portfolio to be slightly  misaligned  
to its risk benchmark  with risk of a loss than it was to execute  many small trades 
which generated high trading fees/costs and which caused a definite  loss to the fund.
The funds CGT position could have been  based on low cost funds which  could have 
been switched,  for other similar low cost funds,  when necessary and to use the full 
CGT allowance in each year; losses could have been carried  forward  to offset 
against future gains;  in addition the bed and breakfast approach could have been 
used to further mitigate the funds CGT  liability; overall, it does not appear that H1 did 
any of these and it does not appear  to have  shown  that it deducted dealing  costs 
from that liability.
CGT mismanagement  by H1 can be illustrated  by considering  that by 2016  the fund 
would have grown by a total of around  £160,000, to which a total apportioned CGT 
allowance of around £65,000 would  have applied; the net total CGT exposure 
Ref: DRN60318184(chargeable gain) would have been  around £97,000;  after deducting around £33,000 
in dealing costs  (which were permissible  deductions) the net total CGT exposure 
would have been around £64,000; CGT charged at 40% against net chargeable 
gains of around £64,000 would have resulted in a CGT liability of around £25,500 for 
the lifetime of the trust fund up to 2016   whereas  a similar total of CGT reserve  
transfers were made by H1 for trust fund disposals  just for the period between  1999 
and 2012.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including the submissions 
made by the parties following PD2  to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have not been persuaded to depart  from 
the conclusions  on merit in PD2. I retain  those  conclusions  and incorporate  them  into this 
decision.
Trust and Fund Arrangements
I retain  the same provisional conclusions reached  in PD1 and PD2, and for the same 
reasons I expressed  in both provisional decisions. I have not been presented with evidence 
that persuades  me to depart from those conclusions.
Churning and Charges/Commissions/Fees
The significant increase in trading frequency and volume which I addressed in PD2 does not 
appear to be in dispute. H1 considers that it has given a reasonable explanation that justifies 
it but Mr L and his expert witness disagree.  There also does not appear to be a dispute 
about the uneconomic trades  I addressed in PD2. Again, H1s position is that its reasonable 
explanation justifies  those trades   its overall  assertion  appears  to be that its portfolio risk 
rebalancing activities were of the most importance  and that the increased trading and 
uneconomic trading were unavoidable as a result.
On this matter, the contents of PD1 included  the following:
COBS 9.3.2
(1)A series of transactions  that are each suitable  when viewed in isolation may be 
unsuitable if the recommendation or the decisions to trade are made with a frequency 
that is not in the best interests of the client.
The above,  from the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Handbook (in its Conduct of Business 
Rules), could be considered as the regulators definition of churning.  The focus is on the 
frequency with which a firm carries out transactions for its client  and on its clients  best 
interests  both elements are important. 
Following PD1, PD2 and all the comments/submissions that have been made by the parties, 
the churning allegation rests on whether (or not) the rebalancing activities  conceded by H1 
are captured by COBS 9.3.2. I note that H1 has now given a detailed explanation of its 
activities, where none appears  to have been previously given, but the task remains  to 
determine whether  its explanation is credible and sufficient to show that its activities cannot  
reasonably be captured by COBS 9.3.2.
Ref: DRN60318185I understand H1s rationale  behind the risk profile rebalancing exercise it conducted.  It says 
this exercise was a priority that was not and should not have been compromised and that it 
outweighed in importance (and justified) the costs of the increased  trading and uneconomic  
trades that resulted. It says, overall,  the increased  trading and uneconomic trades were in 
the trust funds best interests because of the successful  risk profile rebalancing that was 
achieved through  them   so they are not captured by COBS 9.3.2. Overall and on balance, I 
disagree.
The rebalancing exercise ought reasonably to have been carried  out efficiently and I am not 
persuaded that was the case. The accumulation of significant trading costs  (including 
uneconomic trading costs) would have  been foreseeable to H1 in planning this exercise 
and/or at the outset of pursuing  it. The same applies to the detrimental financial impact such 
costs would have  on the fund  that too would have been foreseeable. 
At least, and in the context of upholding the trust funds best interests,  H1 ought to have 
exhausted considerations (and perhaps  application)  of some alternatives in which  such  
detrimental costs  (to the fund) were reduced or avoided. I have not seen evidence that it did 
this and the implication  that arises from its submissions is that it considered the rebalancing 
exercise to be worthy at all or any cost. Overall, on balance and despite H1s rebalancing 
objective, I do not consider that the significantly increased trading activity  (including the 
uneconomic trades)  were in the trust funds best interest. The trading costs produced by that 
activity is captured  by COBS 9.3.2 and amounts to churning.
Mr Ls expert witness has presented specific alternatives that he says should have been 
considered and used to achieve the rebalancing effect that H1 sought. I hesitate to support 
or endorse  any of the alternatives he has presented because due regard should be given to 
H1 having had full discretion in the matter at the time  so there is arguably less ground to 
prescribe the specific type of rebalancing exercise it should have deployed. However, I 
accept what appears to be the expert  witness implicit point that there were alternatives 
available for H1 to consider at the time, it ought to have considered them  but it did not.
CGT
A similar point  applies  to H1s argument  about the CGT liability  matter. I understand its point 
about the inevitability of CGT  liability  arising  from trading in which  significant  gains  which 
far outweigh  the CGT  allowances   are realised. I also do not consider that the trusts annual 
CGT allowance was particularly under used. The issue  is about the gains  that were  realised  
and about whether (or not) the trusts net CGT  liability was managed sufficiently to have 
been net of all relevant permissible  deductibles.
In terms of the gains  that were realised, the effect of the transactions captured by COBS  
9.3.2 cannot reasonably be ignored.  As addressed  above,  I am not persuaded that those 
transactions were  unavoidable, so CGT liability attached  to the gains  that arose from them  
was also not unavoidable. 
I also consider that there is a lack of evidence of meaningful CGT  management at the 
relevant time. H1s approach appears to have been to prioritise justification for the 
rebalancing exercise and then to conclude that the costs of the exercise and CGT liability  
arising from it were equally justified because the rebalancing exercise itself was justified.  In 
addition to the lack of evidence that H1 considered alternatives to reduce or avoid 
detrimental trading  costs  (to the fund)  during the rebalancing exercise, there is also a lack of 
evidence that it considered alternatives to reduce or avoid CGT liability during that exercise.
Ref: DRN60318186I am not persuaded that H1 has presented enough evidence (or explanation) to establish 
that trading costs   which were permissible deductions  were  deducted  from the trusts 
CGT liability.  I note the broad scenario that has been presented  about assumed  total CGT 
liability from the fund through  its lifetime and as of 2016. It is not precise  but it creates helpful 
context which shows that what, broadly speaking, could have been the trust funds total CGT 
liability for gains over its lifetime up to 2016  was around the same amount as the CGT 
liability it incurred for gains over the course  of only around a third of its lifetime.
Mismanagement from 1999
I retain  the findings  for this issue  as expressed  in PD2. I consider that Mr Ls fund was 
mismanaged only in relation to the three specific issues. I have noted all of the arguments 
for mismanagement presented on Mr Ls behalf. I consider that where they relate to the 
three specific issues I have reflected them in my findings above (and in previous findings). In 
terms of the wider arguments  which go beyond those issues and which present other ways 
in which  the fund should have been managed, I consider that there is a risk within those 
arguments of unreasonably breaching the value and effect of H1s discretionary 
management of the fund  as agreed  with the testatrix and settlor of the trust.
Conflict of interest
I retain  the findings  for this issue  as expressed  in PD2 and I consider £500 to be a fair and 
reasonable amount that caters for the trouble  and upset caused to Mr L by H1 not prioritising 
the interests of the fund in the three specific issues.
Mr Ls Costs
I have noted the argument presented for Mr L in this respect.  However, in straightforward  
terms, it is normally the approach within this service that cost awards are not automatically 
issued if a complaint  is successful. 
I acknowledge that Mr L has been  capably  represented by his solicitors  and by his expert 
witness, and I understand  his reference to assistance sought from his accountant. However, 
I do not consider  that there  was an absolute requirement for legal representation,  an expert 
witness or accountancy service in his case.  Their  inputs  were helpful, but in their absence 
this service would  have applied its inquisitorial role and would have pursued broadly  the 
same lines of enquiry  that they highlighted. It should be noted that PD1 illustrated this  
further to the investigators previous enquiries  in the case  by highlighting Outstanding  
Issues to be addressed. In addition, this service  has addressed complaints comparable to 
Mr Ls in which there  were no legal representations  on behalf of the complainant.
DISP 3.3.4 (14)
The provisions under DISP 3.3.4  (which include DISP 3.3.4 (14))  apply  to complaints 
referred to this service   before 9 July 2015  . Mr Ls complaint  was referred to us 
thereafter so the provisions do not apply to it. 
redress
In PD2 I said the following:
Ref: DRN60318187The attention of both parties is drawn  to the basis  on which  part of Mr Ls complaint has 
been upheld. My provisional  conclusions do not uphold the general or wider allegation of 
mismanagement from 1999. As such, the sort of redress that could apply if that allegation 
was upheld does  not apply to this complaint. The provisional conclusions uphold  only the 
three specific issues  limited to the implication of mismanagement  within them.  The three 
specific issues appear to relate  to disputed payments from the trusts portfolio  in terms of 
CGT and charges   so, in straightforward terms, redress  is based on the refunding of those 
payments to Mr L. No other basis for redress arises from the provisional conclusions above.
I repeat  my reference  to the table of disputed payments presented on behalf of Mr L. H1 
must use this table as the basis for redress  to Mr L and must refund to him:
The amounts  in every entry in the table where  the payment type is CGT Payment  
and CGT Transfer.
The amounts  in all of the entries and payment types where  the dispute reason is 
Mis-management & Churning.
H1 must pay interest to Mr L on each payment that is refunded, at the rate of 8% simple  per 
year from the date the payment was deducted from the portfolio to the date of settlement. H1 
must also pay Mr L £500 for the trouble and upset  caused to him, as explained above.
I retain  this finding and confirm that H1 must  calculate and pay Mr L redress as set out in the 
above quote. H1 must  also provide the calculation of redress  to Mr L in a clear and simple 
format.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint.  I order HSBC Trust Company (UK) 
Ltd to carry out redress to Mr L as stated above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 11 November 2019. 
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60318188Copy of PD2
complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about trustee/fiduciary and portfolio management obligations he says were 
breached by HSBC  Trust Company (UK) Ltd (H1) with regards to a trust fund (which I sometimes  
refer to as Mr Ls fund) he inherited. Mr L is represented by solicitors  who,  in response to the PD 
and with regards  to the issues  in the complaint, submitted evidence from their expert witness. They 
say:
H1 did not review risk profiles or objectives with the beneficiaries (including  Mr L) of the trust 
fund.
The trust fund was mismanaged from 1999 onwards.
H1 churned  the portfolio  and/or applied charges/commissions/fees that were disproportionate 
to its size, to its poor performance and to its fall in value.
H1 did not mitigate the trust funds exposure to unnecessary capital gains tax (CGT).
There is also a suggestion (or assertion)  in the complaint that H1 conducted itself with a conflict of 
interests.
background
The trust fund was established, with H1 as the trustee,  by Mr Ls grandmother for the benefit  of his 
mother, who took income from it from around 1980/1981.  A deed of assignment in 2007 meant the 
right to receive income from the fund thereafter  was assigned to Mr L (and others) but the funds  
capital remained within it. H1 explained that investment advice and fund management  roles  were 
delegated to third parties within  the same group of companies (H2 and H3 respectively). H1 says that 
despite this arrangement it retained responsibility  as trustee  and investment manager  for the fund. In 
2016 H1s trusteeship ceased and the trust fund was vested  in Mr L (and others).
A copy of the PD is attached below, so I will not recount  further background  in the case. The PDs 
conclusions were  as follows:
In the main and in terms of the trust and fund arrangements  and the allegation  that HSBC 
did not review the portfolio with the beneficiaries  I said;
I have not seen evidence of provisions in the will or trust that gave the beneficiaries a basis 
to be featured  in or to prompt a review(s) of the funds objective, risk profile or investment 
strategy. The objective  set at the outset was to continue uninterrupted and, given  H1s role as 
a discretionary investment  manager, H1 retained discretion to review the relevant profile and 
strategy in terms of working towards the objective.  Evidence does not show that Mr L was 
entitled to take part in this process.
There is common  ground that the trust fund was set up to provide income for Mr Ls mother. 
She appears to have received such income from around 1980/1981  onwards, and then in 
2007 receipt of the income was passed to Mr L (and others).  Capital  was to be retained in the 
fund. This arrangement shows a somewhat straightforward objective   the generation of 
income on the basis of existing and hopefully  appreciating capital.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded that H1 was wrong  to apply a moderate risk 
profile to the fund.
A moderate (or balanced)  portfolio can reasonably be constituted in a number of ways  and, 
in this case H1, was entitled  to use its discretion in this respect.  It does not automatically 
follow that such  a portfolio must contain nothing but balanced risk assets. It was within  the 
range of options to use a mix of assets over different risk classes with the overall effect  of 
producing a balanced/moderate  portfolio.
Ref: DRN60318189In the main and with regards to the allegation of mismanagement from 1999 my provisional 
conclusion was;
Mismanagement is not the automatic conclusion  to be drawn in this complaint.  It must be 
shown to have been the probable  not possible  cause of the decline in the funds value and 
I have not seen enough evidence to establish this. In hindsight, it can always  be argued that 
particular investment  decisions should not have  been taken  or that decisions that were  not 
taken should have been taken  but that does not necessarily show negligence or 
mismanagement. There is a need for evidence showing, on balance,  that management  
decisions were reckless or were such that no reasonably minded investment manager  would 
have made.  I am not satisfied  that such evidence  has been presented.
In the main and in terms of the allegation about churning and the application of 
charges/commissions/fees, I said;
The first point  to address  is what appears to be an attempt to reopen the overcharged  fees 
issue that was concluded between 2010 and 2011  Any case  for arguing that the 2010/2011 
overcharging issue remains unresolved does not appear to have been put to H1  since 
2010/2011 when it considered it to have been resolved  and that should  be the first step. It 
would be premature  to give a decision on the matter in such circumstances.
I have noted the information  cited by Mr Ls solicitors  about fund activities in 2007, 2008 and 
2012. 
These activities took place during the period in which the funds value  was in decline. That 
decline is the main issue for Mr L and it could be argued that the same was more  likely  (than 
not) to have been the reason for any increased  activity  within the fund during this period   the 
idea being to stem or turn around the decline.
This creates a basis  to conclude that increased activity in the fund after 1999  more likely 
(than not) for the reason  of turning its fortunes  was, overall, intended  to be in the best 
interests of the fund (and its beneficiaries). I appreciate that the result remained  negative, that 
the decline in value continued and that an effect of the increased activity was an increase in 
fees, charges or commissions. However,  these factors  would appear to have been the 
outcomes or consequences  of the increased activity  not the cause.  Overall and on balance,  
I do not consider  that H1 engaged in churning  the trust fund for commission especially as it 
has not been  established that it was not acting in the funds best interests.
I am not persuaded that the complaint goes as far as to establish a definitive set of 
erroneous fees.
I do not consider that I have enough information to determine the allegation about unfair or 
disproportionate charges/commission/fees.  The deduction headings that have been cited are 
not particularly out of the ordinary, they do not appear to be in conflict  with the type of 
deductions H1 applied and they do not appear to be inherently unfair. However,  I agree that in 
Mr Ls case they have not been sufficiently clarified   in general terms and in terms of the few 
examples that have  been  queried by Mr Ls solicitors. This means that I do not have enough 
evidence to uphold  this complaint issue  but I also do not have enough  evidence to say the 
issue lacks merit.
I reached a broadly similar provisional  conclusion  with regards to the CGT issue. In the main, 
I said:
A similar conclusion applies  to this matter. I understand the logic of Mr Ls argument  it is 
arguably odd for CGT to be generated in a fund that was not making  capital gains. However, 
evidence on this issue is not complete, a definitive  financial loss from it does not appear to 
Ref: DRN603181810have been alleged or established and there is not enough  information to properly  determine  
whether (or not) anything is wrong with the CGT payments that were  made.
With regards to the alleged  conflict of interests issue, I mainly said;
"The argument appears to be that H1s use of H2 and H3 conflicted with the need  to take 
independent advice  in the management of the trust fund  The common corporate group  
does not automatically mean that the individual companies are not as independent as they 
present themselves to be. Evidence  of such independence being compromised, by H1, H2 or 
H3 and in favour of the other, would  reasonably be needed to establish this allegation and I 
have not seen  such  evidence.
In addition to presenting  their comments  I also asked  the parties to provide further information to 
assist in determining the issues that remained unclear. As I said above, Mr L and his solicitors 
presented submissions from their expert witness, which addressed information  that H1 had 
presented. The submissions are very detailed and will be broadly reflected in my provisional findings 
below  as will H1s responses and comments from the parties.
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence, arguments, comments and submissions  to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Trust and Fund Arrangements
For this issue,  I retain the same provisional conclusions  reached in the PD and for the same reasons. 
I have still not seen evidence  of provisions  in the will or trust that gave the beneficiaries  a basis to 
take part in or to ask for reviews of the portfolio;  the portfolios objective,  to generate income and grow 
capital, was identifiable; H1 does not appear to have been wrong in applying a moderate/balanced 
risk profile to the portfolio;  and it was not unreasonable to have a mix of assets within such  a profile  in 
order to produce the effect of a moderate/balanced  portfolio. I do not consider that any of the parties 
comments about the PD has swayed  me enough  to depart from these conclusions.
Mismanagement from 1999
Further below, I present new provisional conclusions with regards to the allegations  about the 
churning, charges/commissions/fees and CGT matters  the three specific  issues. I provisionally  
uphold these  issues and I explain why. Mr L and his solicitors will likely say that an implication of 
mismanagement (of a portfolio) arises  from a firms  wrongdoing in terms of churning, 
charges/commissions/fees and CGT. Limited  to these three  specific issues, I agree and provisionally 
conclude that the portfolio  was mismanaged. However,  I disagree with the wider arguments about 
mismanagement that have  been made on Mr Ls behalf.
In terms of investment decisions and selections outside  the three specific issues,  I retain  the 
conclusion that  There is a need for evidence  showing, on balance,  that management decisions 
were reckless or were  such that no reasonably minded  investment manager would  have made. I am 
not satisfied  that such evidence has been presented. 
Beyond the three specific issues, Mr Ls case for mismanagement  supported by detailed  
submissions from his expert witness   mainly raises the following arguments:
Merit in taking an approach, for a trust fund, based on a diversified mixture of equities  and 
bonds  however, lack of merit in gearing  the equities portion towards  technology  stocks 
around 1999, in the context of a moderate risk portfolio.
Tracker funds  should  have been used instead of direct equities and bonds investments. The 
former had the benefit of management and operating costs that were  lower than the latter.
Ref: DRN603181811A distinct point about conflict of interest  aside  from  the wider complaint in this respect  
arising from distribution related rebates  H1 could or would have received and retained from 
mutual fund investments in the portfolio.  Such rebates  ought  reasonably to have  been passed 
on to the trust, but for H1s conflicted  interest in retaining them as revenue.  Furthermore, 
mutual funds unduly created an extra layer  of charges for the trust to incur.
The first two arguments are competent  and I do not suggest that they do not have  merit. However, 
they must be viewed in the context  of H1s discretionary  management role and in this respect I am not 
persuaded that they establish mismanagement. It could well be the case  that H1 could have 
exercised its discretion differently  or in a better way  by following the diversified tracker  funds 
based approach that has been presented, but just because it did not follow such  an approach does 
not automatically mean it was reckless or negligent or that it mismanaged  the portfolio. Overall, on 
balance and beyond the three specific issues, I still consider that I have not seen  evidence  
showing, on balance, that management decisions were reckless  or were such that no reasonably  
minded investment manager  would have made.
I consider the third argument  similarly. I am not quite satisfied that H1s alleged  receipt and retention  
of distribution rebates has been properly established, but even it is established I am not quite satisfied 
that it would amount to conduct that no reasonably minded investment manager  would  have engaged 
in. 
Churning and Charges/Commissions/Fees
I am persuaded by additional evidence and submissions, since the PD, that the trusts  portfolio 
appears to have been  churned,  in parts. This appears to be the crux of the allegation about churning 
and charges/commissions/fees. The argument for this part of Mr Ls complaint is split as follows;
A notable  change  in the frequency/volume of rebalancing trades within the portfolio between 
the 1999  to 2004 period  (period 1) and the 2005 to 2015  period (period 2).
A high quantity of uneconomic trades, from 2005,  in which the fee rates  associated with the 
trades made it arguably implausible that the trades were in the trusts interest.
I consider that there  is merit in both parts of the argument, especially  the second part (with regards to 
the uneconomic  trades).
During period 1, there appear to have been no more  than 10 purchase trades per year in the portfolio, 
no more  than 10 sale trades per year and no more than 1 FX trade per year.  During period 2 there 
appear to have been  between  23 and 94 purchase trades per year in the portfolio, between  22 and 
118 sale trades per year and between 5 and 21 FX trades per year. The difference between the 
periods seems to be quite  apparent. H1s trading in the portfolio during period 2 was significantly 
more active than it was in period 1.
It is H1s case  that the overall terms for the trust and its portfolio were set, by the settlor, at the outset. 
The beneficiaries had no opportunity to influence  those terms and H1 appears to accept that the 
terms remained  unchanged.  The suggestion that arises  is that H1s management  activities within  the 
trusts portfolio ought  reasonably to have been broadly  consistent over time  or, arguably, ought  not 
to feature such a significant  difference in frequency/volume.  Its reviews  (either direct  or delegated) 
and any revisions to the discretionary management models it applied  to the portfolio would still have  
been based on the same  original terms and profile  for the trust, which  never  changed. 
H1 defends its discretion  to have conducted rebalancing within the portfolio in terms of compliance 
with its internal model(s)  and in reaction  to performance and to the market(s). I do not question  its 
discretion in the management of the portfolio. However the fact remains that its discretion was limited 
by its mandate, which was defined  by the terms of and profile for the trust  which appears to have 
never changed. Yet, its management approach appears to have changed,  in period 2, and changed  
significantly. It refers  to a review of performance in 2013, but the change  in trading  frequency/volume 
Ref: DRN603181812began long before that (in 2005). In addition, I am not persuaded that H1 has presented a plausible 
case to justify the difference in trading frequency/volume based on the markets at the time.
From 2005, there appear to be a notable number  of examples in which  individual trade  sizes (in the 
portfolio) in relation to the relevant trade fees resulted in fee rates between the range of 3.7% and 
39% per trade. Mr Ls expert evidence  refers to specific examples,  amongst others, of fee rates per 
trade of around  5%, 7%, 13%, 20%. These uneconomic trades  where the fee rates  appear to 
devalue or defeat commercial merit in the trades   lead  to the provisional conclusion  that the relevant 
trades meet  the regulators definition of churning  (in COBS 9.3.2, as quoted in the PD). Mr L might 
even argue that these uneconomic trades are outside the allowance, within the definition,  for isolated 
trades that might  appear suitable until viewed as part of a collection of trades. He could argue that in 
isolation each individual fee rate per trade in the examples presented is in itself unsuitable and I am 
persuaded to agree. 
Mr Ls expert evidence includes a table of disputed payments. Overall, on balance and for the 
reasons given  above,  I provisionally uphold  the entries within that table related to churning. As I said 
further above,  I am not persuaded by the wider assertion about the portfolio being mismanaged. The 
table of disputed payments  also features charges that relate to this wider assertion but I do not uphold 
those entries  (which are labelled in the table  as Mis-management). For the sake of completeness, I 
have not been persuaded to depart from the conclusion in the PD about any attempt to reopen the 
overcharged fees issue that was concluded between 2010 and 2011.
CGT
I am persuaded by additional evidence and submissions, since the PD, that H1 mismanaged the 
trusts CGT liability in parts. I consider that the relevant  parts  are as defined within  the same table of 
disputed payments that I mentioned above. Overall, on balance and for the reason summarised  
below, I provisionally uphold the entries within that table related to CGT payment(s).
Evidence suggests that dealing charges that could and should have been deductible from the trusts 
portfolios CGT liability between 1999 and 2016 were not deducted. This appears to have 
compounded the detriment  to the trusts portfolio caused by the incidents of churning that have  been 
cited. The suggestion being that the churned trades were already detrimental in terms of the arguably 
unwarranted dealing  charges they generated, but those charges could have been applied  to reduce 
CGT liability but were not so applied. 
I consider that it ought reasonably to have been within H1s responsibility  (direct or delegated) to 
manage the trusts CGT liability competently and sufficiently to ensure  that lawful deductions  were  
made when  they should have been  made. H1 gave a generic statement that said  all relevant 
expenses are deducted  from the gross  sale proceeds which include  the dealing  costs.  However it 
does not appear to have properly explained if and why it disputes the evidence presented on Mr Ls 
behalf which cites specific CGT payments that arose from a failure  to deduct dealing costs.
Conflict of interest
In light of the provisional conclusions above, I consider that there is arguably a degree of merit in Mr 
Ls assertion that H1 has not upheld its fiduciary  duty to primarily safeguard the interests of the trust 
and its portfolio. The avoidable charges and CGT exposure  both of which  it does not appear to have 
avoided  support such a conclusion. 
It is possible that a conflict between  the interests of H1, H2, H3 and the trust resulted  in this. 
However, overall and on balance, I am not satisfied that I have seen enough  to conclude that such  
conflict was the probable cause of H1 not upholding the interests of the trust in the three specific 
issues. Potential for a conflict of interests  does not automatically mean  that such  a conflict  has directly  
caused a wrongdoing.  It is possible for such a conflict to exist but for it to be managed  in a way that 
prevents a wrongdoing  to a firms client. 
Ref: DRN603181813Nevertheless, I consider  it safe to provisionally conclude  that Mr L has been put into the position of 
having to pursue the present  complaint  mainly  or partly  because  H1 did not prioritise the interests of 
the trust in the three  specific  issues.  To compensate him for the trouble and upset he has been 
caused in this respect, I provisionally conclude  that H1 should pay him £500. I note, but I am not 
persuaded by, the case that has been made about H1s delegation of duties to H2 and H3 unduly 
increasing costs  for the trust.  I am not satisfied that the balance of evidence supports the notion that 
H1 lacked reasonable discretion to delegate  the advice and fund management  functions  to H2 and H3 
as it did.
my provisional  conclusion  on redress
The attention of both parties is drawn to the basis on which part of Mr Ls complaint has been upheld. 
My provisional  conclusions do not uphold the general or wider allegation  of mismanagement  from 
1999. As such, the sort of redress  that could  apply if that allegation was upheld does  not apply  to this 
complaint. The provisional conclusions uphold  only the three specific  issues  limited to the 
implication of mismanagement within them.  The three specific issues appear to relate  to disputed 
payments from the trusts  portfolio  in terms of CGT and charges  so, in straightforward terms, 
redress is based on the refunding of those payments to Mr L. No other basis for redress arises from 
the provisional conclusions above.
I repeat my reference to the table of disputed payments presented on behalf of Mr L. H1 must use this 
table as the basis  for redress  to Mr L and must refund to him:
The amounts in every entry in the table where  the payment type is CGT  Payment and CGT  
Transfer.
The amounts in all of the entries and payment types where the dispute reason is Mis-
management & Churning.
H1 must pay interest to Mr L on each payment that is refunded, at the rate of 8% simple per year from 
the date the payment was deducted from the portfolio to the date of settlement. H1 must also pay Mr 
L £500 for the trouble and upset caused to him, as explained above.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint only in relation 
to the disputed  payments detailed above.  
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN603181814Copy of PD1
complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about trustee/fiduciary and portfolio management obligations he says were 
breached by HSBC  Trust Company (UK) Ltd (H1) with regards to a trust fund (which I sometimes  
refer to as Mr Ls fund) he inherited. Mr L is represented by solicitors.  They  say:
The trust fund was mismanaged from 1999 onwards.
H1 applied charges/commissions/fees  that were disproportionate to the size of the trust fund, 
to its poor performance  and to its fall in value.
H1 did not review risk profiles or objectives with the beneficiaries (including  Mr L) of the trust 
fund.
H1 did not mitigate the trust funds exposure to unnecessary tax.
background
The trust fund was established, with H1 as the trustee,  by Mr Ls grandmother for the benefit  of his 
mother, who took income from it from around 1980/1981.  A deed of assignment in 2007 meant the 
right to receive income from the fund thereafter  was assigned to Mr L (and others) but the funds  
capital remained within it. In 2016 H1s trusteeship ceased and the trust fund was vested  in Mr L (and 
others). Its values, over time, were:
In July 1981 the fund was worth  £46,313.56.
From 1981  to 1998 the funds value increased  to £207,550.
Around the end of 1999 the fund was worth £166,752.  Around the same time in 2000 it was 
worth £180,044 and around the same time in 2001  it was worth  £156,850.
Around the end of 2005 the funds value had decreased to £136,382.33 and it decreased  
further to £97,903.75 in 2008.
In September 2010 the fund was worth £114,761.18.
In October  2012  the fund was worth £121,139 and by 2016, around the time that the fund 
became vested in Mr L (and others)  its value  had decreased  to £114,907.
Mr Ls solicitors  accept  that £39,000, in capital,  was withdrawn from the fund in June  1999 for the 
beneficiaries but they say the beneficiaries  made no other withdrawal and they question capital 
redemptions in the fund to meet a total of around £23,000 in capital  gains tax (CGT) during this period  
 they say such CGT  conflicted with the reduction or absence  of gains  during this period.  Enquiries,  
including those relevant  to the complaint  points  above  and about the difference  in performance 
between the period up to 1999 and the period thereafter,  were put to H1 in 2016. 
H1 explained that investment advice and fund management roles were delegated to third parties 
within the same group of companies  (H2 and H3 respectively)  H1 has since confirmed to this 
service that despite this arrangement it retained responsibility as trustee and investment manager for 
the fund. H1 said H3 used a moderate risk profile for the fund; that two funds  were set up under the 
trust at the outset (one for Mr Ls mother and another for her sister)  so CGT applied to trust as a 
whole (including both funds)  meaning Mr Ls fund had only half of the relevant  CGT allowance;  that in 
terms of performance, wider  market growth prior to 1999 helped the funds growth during that period 
but the market  was not the same  between 1999  and 2012 during which there was more volatility, so 
the two periods are not comparable. 
Mr Ls solicitors  argued that H1s failure  to review the profile of the fund in the context of the 
beneficiaries circumstances caused  detriment to it. H1 said its authority to invest the fund was from 
the trust instrument, so a moderate  risk profile  was determined because trustees would not usually 
take high risks with trust funds.  It said the funds objective was based on the terms of the trust,  not the 
circumstances of its beneficiaries, so reviews were conducted to check that the investment strategy  
was in line with the terms of trust. It also said that its charges in the fund were as agreed by the settlor 
at the outset.
Ref: DRN603181815The matter was referred to this service and one of our investigators considered it. H1 summarised its 
points, as above, to us. The investigator  made additional queries, in response to which  H1 said:
To summarise how it discharged its duties, it gave H3 the mandate for managing the fund 
based on the terms  of the trust, the interest of all beneficiaries and the potential longevity of 
the trust; the individual circumstances of the beneficiaries did not define the funds objective; it 
reviewed the investment  strategy,  risk profile  and H3s performance periodically;  and H3 
reviewed the funds performance in 2013  and found  it 0.88% below the benchmark  but within  
acceptable parameters.
Reviews were conducted between H1 and H3, the beneficiaries were  not included in the 
process but they were  sent quarterly reports and H1 responded to their queries.
Suitability related documents  were inapplicable because  the trust was created by will and 
started after the testators death.
The investigator concluded  that the complaint should not be upheld. He noted that H1 had a wide 
discretion to manage the fund and that it appeared to have done so in a fair and reasonable manner  
based on the moderate risk profile  and without  negligence. He considered that poor performance,  
alone, was not enough  to uphold the complaint and that there was no evidence in the terms of the 
trust that said reviews should have been conducted  with the beneficiaries. He noted a period of 
overcharged fees,  on which both parties agree, but said the matter was resolved around 2010/2011 
and he had not seen  evidence that overcharging  happened thereafter. Mr Ls solicitors disagreed and, 
in the main, argued that:
H1 managed the fund unreasonably and negligently. The decline in the funds value after 
1999 has never been  properly explained  and there is evidence in the will, which set up the 
trust, showing that capital appreciation and income generation were its fundamental 
objectives  both of which were defeated during the decline period. The decline period was in 
stark contrast to the previous period in which the fund appreciated  significantly  in value, so 
the facts suggest that there was a negligent  change of approach around 1999 that caused the 
decline.
Despite their requests H1 did not previously  disclose the scale of fees, as referred to in the 
trusts terms, on which charges was based. It did so after the investigators request  but the 
document presented is incomplete   missing a Tariff section   and is doubtful because  it 
mismatches what H1 previously described as a complex scale.  
Events in 2007, when the deed of assignment changed  the recipients  of income,  ought 
reasonably to have prompted a review of the profile  of the fund in order to match  the profiles 
of the new recipients. No evidence  of the trusts objective has been presented and there is 
doubt that such  evidence can be shown  or that H1 knew what  the objective was.
Fundamentally, the notion  of a CGT liability of £23,411 arising during a period in which the 
funds value  was in decline  is conflicting. 
Information about  the fund suggests churning  identification  of a disproportionate level of 
share trading that resulted in unnecessary  fees and commissions that only benefited H1. 
Evidence from activities in October  2008 and all of 2012 (especially January) shows buying  
and selling  of the same equity in low quantities that mismatched the size of the portfolio. 
There was also a high volume of transactions from 2007, matched  by the more  than tripling of 
activity fees charged for the period.
Information about  the fund, which was unavailable  in 2010/2011 when  the previous 
overcharging issue was addressed, also suggests that the previous overcharging issue was 
not properly resolved.
H1s previous reference  to an obligation  to take independent  advice on the fund was defeated 
by it taking advice from a third party within the same group of companies. H1s role as trustee 
was conflicted in this respect.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN603181816my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As stated further above, H1 confirms that it is responsible for the 
management of the trust fund, despite the duties delegated to others, so I have considered the 
complaint on this basis.
Trust and Fund Arrangements
There has been some  debate over whether (or not) H1 took into account the interests of the 
beneficiaries of the fund in its role as investment manager   in order to reflect  the duty to do so in its 
fiduciary role as trustee. Mr Ls solicitors identified some conflicting  information from H1 in this respect 
over the course of its responses. I agree that they are slightly unhelpful but I consider  that they do not 
alter H1s main  acceptance that its role as investment  manager was defined  by the terms of the trust, 
the interests of the beneficiaries and the interests of the fund  all three elements  mattered.
The above conclusion does  not automatically  equate to a beneficiarys entitlement to be involved  in 
the fund management and does not automatically mean that a reason  to review the objective and 
strategy for the fund arose from new beneficiaries receiving income from 2007.  I do not consider that 
either was the case.
Mr Ls solicitors  will appreciate the primary  influence  a settlor would usually have over the terms of a 
trust and over the manner in which the trusts asset is managed.  It is commonly inherent within a trust 
arrangement that the settlors wishes are to be observed during  its lifetime.  Mr L was not the settlor. 
As one of the beneficiaries, secondary to his mother, the influence which his solicitors assert that he 
(and the other beneficiaries) ought to have had in the trust funds management might have been the 
case if the terms of the trust provided for such influence. Otherwise, in the absence  of such a 
provision, his entitlement was limited to H1 managing the trust fund in the interests of the 
beneficiaries. 
I have not seen evidence of provisions in the will or trust that gave the beneficiaries a basis to be 
featured in or to prompt a review(s)  of the funds objective,  risk profile  or investment strategy. The 
objective set at the outset was to continue  uninterrupted and, given H1s role as a discretionary 
investment manager, H1 retained  discretion to review  the relevant  profile and strategy  in terms of 
working towards the objective. Evidence does not show that Mr L was entitled to take part in this 
process. His solicitors say the objective for the fund was unknown or was not evidenced. I am not 
persuaded by this argument. There is common ground that the trust fund was set up to provide 
income for Mr Ls mother. She appears to have received such  income from around 1980/1981 
onwards, and then in 2007  receipt  of the income was passed to Mr L (and others). Capital was to be 
retained in the fund.  This arrangement shows a somewhat straightforward objective   the generation 
of income on the basis of existing  and hopefully appreciating capital.
In this context, I also consider that it is difficult to argue  against the logic of the moderate (or 
balanced) risk profile that H1 used. A high risk profile for the fund could have made  the investment 
strategy too speculative, potentially exposing  the capital to too much risk and going  against the need 
for capital appreciation (or even retention). Growth of the funds capital was necessary  to sustain 
income withdrawals. A low risk profile  might have been too cautious.  If it generated insufficient growth 
and if withdrawals had to come from the capital, in the long term the funds  ability to generate income  
could be hindered and/or its capital could  be wiped out due to the income withdrawn  from it. Overall 
and on balance, I am not persuaded that H1 was wrong  to apply a moderate risk profile to the fund. 
Ref: DRN603181817Mr Ls solicitors  suggest  that H1 did not abide by this moderate risk profile  in its investment decisions 
from 1999.  The argument  appears to be that some investments were  riskier than this profile,  hence 
the losses  that reduced the value of the fund during this period. I do not quite agree.  A moderate (or 
balanced) portfolio can reasonably be constituted in a number of ways  and, in this case  H1, was 
entitled to use its discretion in this respect. It does  not automatically follow that such  a portfolio  must 
contain nothing but balanced  risk assets. It was within  the range  of options to use a mix of assets over 
different risk classes with the overall  effect of producing a balanced/moderate portfolio. 
Mismanagement from 1999
The trust fund did not perform well between 1999  and 2016. It lost around £100,000  of its value over 
this period. In contrast, between 1981 and 1999 it gained over £150,000 in value. I can understand  Mr 
Ls assertion that something went wrong between both periods and I do not consider that H1 
necessarily disagrees.  The point of dispute is what went wrong  Mr L says it was H1s 
mismanagement but H1 denies that and says it was more  to do with the wider market conditions. In 
addressing this issue I am mindful that no guarantee of gains or on performance existed in this case, 
so evidence of poor performance alone would not be enough  to sustain or uphold the complaint.
Mismanagement is not the automatic conclusion to be drawn in this complaint. It must  be shown to 
have been the probable   not possible  cause  of the decline in the funds value and I have not seen 
enough evidence  to establish this. In hindsight, it can always be argued that particular  investment 
decisions should not have  been taken  or that decisions that were not taken should  have been taken 
 but that does not necessarily show  negligence or mismanagement. There  is a need for evidence 
showing, on balance, that management decisions were reckless  or were such that no reasonably  
minded investment manager  would have made. I am not satisfied that such evidence has been 
presented. In terms of investment decisions, in isolation, Mr L does  not even appear to have a 
tangible basis for the negligence he alleges. His solicitors  complaint statement  to this service said  
It is not clear to our client  how so much capital was lost from the fund unless the Trustees had been 
following a high risk strategy in difficult markets. 
Charges/Commissions/Fees
The first point to address is what appears to be an attempt to reopen the overcharged fees issue that 
was concluded between 2010 and 2011.  This appears to have arisen  in the course  of our 
investigation and not before. If Mr Ls solicitors have  since (or now)  become  aware of reason  to 
consider the matter unresolved, I do not consider it fair and reasonable to address it within this 
decision. Any case for arguing that the 2010/2011 overcharging issue remains  unresolved does not 
appear to have been  put to H1  since 2010/2011  when  it considered it to have been resolved  and 
that should  be the first step. It would be premature  to give a decision  on the matter in such 
circumstances.
H1 might make  a similar point about the allegation of churning. Mr Ls solicitors suggested  this issue 
to us in their complaint  statement, but H1 might  argue  that they did not do the same explicitly within 
the queries/issues  they presented to it before the matter was referred to us. Having said this, I 
consider that it could  also be argued that there was ground within the solicitors enquiries to H1 for 
this issue  to have been considered implicit.
COBS 9.3.2
(2)A series of transactions that are each  suitable  when viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if 
the recommendation or the decisions  to trade are made with a frequency  that is not in the 
best interests of the client.
Ref: DRN603181818The above, from the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook  (in its Conduct of Business Rules), 
could be considered as the regulators definition  of churning. The focus is on the frequency  with which 
a firm carries  out transactions for its client and on its clients best interests  both elements are 
important. An interpretation is that frequent transactions in a clients portfolio  ought  not to be carried 
out only or mainly for the purpose  of generating  commission for the firm, they should  be carried out in 
the clients  best interests. I have noted  the information cited  by Mr Ls solicitors  about fund activities in 
2007, 2008 and 2012. I understand the arguments that have been made and I consider  that the 
matter should be viewed in the context of the main  issue in this complaint  the decline of the funds 
value.
These activities took place during the period in which the funds value was in decline.  That decline is 
the main issue for Mr L and it could be argued that the same was more likely (than not) to have  been 
the reason for any increased  activity within  the fund during this period  the idea being  to stem  or turn 
around the decline. If Mr L considers this to be a generous conclusion then the alternative is that the 
possibility of this motive being the reason  behind the increased activity cannot  be discounted  and has 
not been  discounted by what Mr L has presented.
This creates  a basis to conclude that increased  activity in the fund after 1999  more  likely (than not) 
for the reason  of turning its fortunes  was, overall,  intended to be in the best interests of the fund 
(and its beneficiaries). I appreciate that the result remained negative, that the decline in value 
continued and that an effect of the increased activity was an increase in fees, charges or 
commissions. However, these factors would appear to have been the outcomes  or consequences  of 
the increased  activity   not the cause. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that H1 engaged in 
churning the trust fund for commission especially as it has not been established that it was not acting 
in the funds best interests.
I turn to the allegation  that the charges/commissions/fees  were  wrong or unfair. The basis upon which  
to determine this would be evidence  of the fee structure agreed  at the outset of H1s role and then 
any terms, in the trust or related to H1s business  (to which the trust arrangement was subject), that 
influenced how charges,  commissions and fees were to be applied thereafter. The will, on which  the 
trust is based, made provisions for H1 to be remunerated  in accordance with its scale of fees as 
published at the time, for remuneration to be payable out of income or capital in the fund, for it to be 
chargeable for all purposes of the will, for it to be free of duties and for it to be payable to H1 in 
addition to any customary share of brokerage. This suggests the settlor accepted the standard  fees 
applied by H1 and, in addition,  ongoing brokerage related commission. Mr Ls solicitors say 
deductions appear to have been made for the following  commission, annual management charge, 
investment service charge,  and then management  fee together  with activity fees. 
I am not persuaded that the complaint goes as far as to establish  a definitive  set of erroneous  fees. 
The argument  presently  appears to be based,  in the main, on Mr Ls conclusion that he does not 
understand what some  or all of these deductions mean and that H1 has not properly explained  them 
to him. This creates difficulty in considering the matter as a complaint for which, if upheld, redress (for 
financial loss) could be due. No definitive financial loss appears  to have been alleged  or established  
and Mr L still appears  to be at the stage of suspecting that there  could be a financial  loss, but only 
because the deductions are not clear  to him.
I do not consider  that I have  enough information to determine the allegation about  unfair  or 
disproportionate charges/commission/fees.  The deduction headings that have been cited are not 
particularly out of the ordinary, they do not appear to be in conflict with the type of deductions  H1 
applied and they do not appear to be inherently  unfair. However, I agree  that in Mr Ls case  they have  
not been  sufficiently clarified  in general  terms and in terms of the few examples  that have been 
queried by Mr Ls solicitors. This means that I do not have  enough evidence to uphold this complaint 
issue  but I also do not have enough evidence  to say the issue lacks merit.
Ref: DRN603181819CGT
A similar conclusion applies  to this matter. I understand the logic of Mr Ls argument   it is arguably  
odd for CGT  to be generated in a fund that was not making capital gains. However, evidence on this 
issue is not complete, a definitive financial loss from it does not appear to have been alleged or 
established and there is not enough information to properly determine  whether  (or not) anything  is 
wrong with the CGT payments that were made. Mr L appears  to be no further from the point of 
suspecting something is wrong because of the contrast between the generation of CGT and the 
decline of the funds value.
The reason for the above conclusion is that CGT  appears to have been paid for the trust as a whole, 
which included the fund that Mr L has complained about and another  fund. We do not appear to have 
evidence of how much  CGT arose from each  individual fund and the specific gains to which it related.  
H1 says the relevant  calculations relate to both funds/the  trust as a whole  and not to the funds 
individually. It suggests  an inability to disclose the calculations for this reason. However, such  
evidence is necessary  to determine what (if any) CGT was applied to Mr Ls fund and whether,  as he 
suspects, any CGT payments in his fund were in conflict with the declining value of the fund. 
Outstanding Issues
As the complaint stands, I do not consider it should  be upheld for the reasons given above.  However, 
perhaps more can be done to resolve  the loose ends that I have noted about the 
charges/commissions/fees issue,  the churning issue and the CGT issue.  
This provisional decision provides an opportunity to revisit the three issues above, if they remain  no 
clearer when a final decision  is considered the outcome is likely  to be as above. The outstanding 
issues are summarised below and both parties will see that their focused  input is necessary if they are 
to be considered further. If a partys inability to give such input  appears to be unreasonable that might 
reflect upon the merits of its position in the complaint.
Mr L would need to be reasonably and sufficiently clear about  each particular charge,  
commission and/or fee in dispute. This should include clarity over what  each is, where there is 
evidence of it, the event(s)  or activity(ies)  it relates to, the relevant dates  or date period and 
an explanation of why it is in dispute (that is, is it unexplained, or if it has been explained does 
Mr L consider that the explanation is implausible and that the relevant charge/commission/fee 
is an example of the alleged churning,  or is it in dispute for any other reason?).
In response, H1 would need to respond to each element of the clarification provided by Mr L. 
Wherever he says specific charges, commissions and/or fees are unexplained,  meaningful  
explanations  for the understanding of a lay person like   Mr L  will be needed.
H1 should provide  a calculation of the gains (in Mr Ls fund) on which CGT was based for 
each year after 1999  in which CGT was paid in Mr Ls fund. If CGT was paid for a year(s) in 
which no gain was made H1 should specify the particular gain (and period) to which the 
payment applies and anticipate (and address)  the likely query  from Mr Ls solicitors about the 
risk of double  counting gains for which CGT might have previously been paid and about  
offsetting gains with losses  during periods in which the funds value declined.  I consider that 
this sort of calculation could reasonably  be done without  breaching  confidentiality obligations 
owed to the other fund in the trust,  if H1 disagrees it should explain why.
Conflict of interest
The argument  appears to be that H1s use of H2 and H3 conflicted with the need to take 
independent advice  in the management of the trust fund. I understand this argument but, based on 
available evidence, I am not persuaded  by it. A degree of independence can reasonably  exist within 
distinct entities that share the same  corporate group. The common corporate group does not 
automatically mean that the individual companies  are not as independent  as they present themselves 
to be. Evidence of such independence being compromised, by H1, H2 or H3 and in favour of the 
other, would reasonably be needed to establish this allegation and I have not seen such evidence.
Ref: DRN603181820However, if the outstanding issues summarised above are resolved to show probable wrongdoing  
within any of them, a legitimate question could be asked about whether  (or not) as trustees, with a 
fiduciary duty to uphold the best interests of the trusts  beneficiary, H1 knew or ought reasonably to 
have known or ought reasonably  to have monitored H2 and H3 about such issues. Any failing  in this 
respect might suggest a conflict of interest.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6031818