K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC hasnt compensated them for losses  
suffered as a consequence of a mis-sold interest  rate swap.
background
Barclays sold Mr and Mrs M an interest rate swap  in 2007 in connection with borrowing  of
£840,000. The swap effectively fixed the interest rate payable at 5.5% for around 14 years.
The sale of the swap was later considered as part of a review agreed with the industry 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA), into the way interest rate hedging products 
were sold.  Barclays offered to pay Mr and Mrs M what  they paid to the swap,  plus interest  
calculated at 8% simple per year. Mr and Mrs M sought to claim additional losses, but 
Barclays didnt agree.
Barclays paid Mr and Mrs M £152,759.15 in 2014  to reflect what they paid for the swap.  Its 
intention was to later pay the 8% simple interest per year on this when Mr and Mrs Ms claim 
for consequential losses was settled. It also offered £2,805  for fees theyd incurred. 
Mr and Mrs M were  dissatisfied and referred their complaint here.
I issued my second provisional decision  on 3 October 2018 explaining why I was intending  to 
conclude that the offer Barclays has already made  is fair and reasonable. I said that before I 
made my final decision Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me, so long as I got 
it before  3 November 2018. 
Barclays has not provided me with any further points  or evidence to consider in response.
 
Mr and Mrs M asked  for an extension to respond,  and have since  explained why they remain 
unhappy. 
They say that part of the £6,000 they paid each month to Barclays during the period of their 
£80,000 loan went straight to paying  the ongoing cost of the swap; and that the remainder 
went to paying  the £80,000  loan; so the calculation in my second  provisional decision where 
I have apportioned 55/80ths of the £6,000 per month to the swap doesnt  fairly represent 
matters (see below  for more details of this reasoning). Ive since explained to Mr and Mrs M 
that I accept  their point  here. But that even  taking this into account,  Barclayss  offer still puts 
them in a fair and reasonable  position.   
Mr and Mrs M have  made other points which I wont set out in detail here  but, in summary, 
Mr and Mrs M disagree generally with my decision and say that:
Their £25,000  overdraft was approved and authorised.  Without the swap  there would 
have been no need for the £80,000  consolidation loan. And theyve shown 
serviceability of the mortgage because they paid Barclays  £6,000  per month.  They 
wouldnt have needed to pay this amount to Barclays but for the swap, and couldve 
instead used it to pay their mortgage.
Its been professionally calculated that their cash flow would have been £144,977.41 
in July 2013, so they could have easily afforded any extra  mortgage payments they 
mightve needed to pay. This amount isnt just a result of the swap  payments being 
Ref: DRN65861352factored back in (that they wouldnt  have  paid),  but also takes account that their sales  
mightve been in a different place  but for the swap. 
The damage to the amortisation of their mortgage continues  beyond the term of the 
swap. Even after the £80,000  loan was repaid, Barclays told them  to only make 
interest payments  and await  the result  of the review.
Theyve also questioned why the amount Barclays is prepared  to pay for 8% compensatory  
interest has been taken  into account in calculating whether theyve suffered a loss. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This means  that Ive not just considered the points in my summary of the complaint which  
Ive set out above  Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments. Having done 
so, Ive reached the same conclusion and for materially the same reasons  Im satisfied that 
the offer Barclays has already made is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed. And Id like to thank them  for their 
understanding and patience. Im sorry for the time its taken for me to confirm my final 
decision on the matter.  This has been  to allow the parties to fully develop their arguments  
and evidence so that I can safely reach my final decision. Ive explained my reasons for my 
decision below.
Mr and Mrs M and Barclays  agreed  basic compensation for the swap  in 2014  that
Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have taken out the swap  if everything had happened in 2007 as it
shouldve. Barclays paid Mr and Mrs M £152,759.15 to cover the swap  payments
Mr and Mrs M had made, with the intention of later paying Mr and Mrs M 8% simple  interest
per year on the swap payments when the consequential loss claim was settled; Barclays  
position is that the 8% interest is to compensate Mr and Mrs M for having been deprived  of 
the money they paid to the swap, and that its therefore part of any consequential loss 
settlement.
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Barclays has chosen not to pay the 8% interest  until the
consequential loss claim is settled. However, Ive not seen anything  that satisfies me 
Barclays isnt entitled to have done  this.
Mr and Mrs M seek compensation for consequential losses from Barclays  arising from:
lost business  profits
professional fees
mortgage amortisation
Barclays has already  offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ms interest on the swap payments  
calculated at 8% per year up until 21 July 2014 to compensate Mr and Mrs M for having 
been deprived of the money  they paid to the swap up until then.  This is designed  to 
compensate Mr and Mrs M for losses theyve suffered as a result of being deprived of this 
cash.
Ref: DRN65861353To decide whether an award is due, beyond what Barclays has already offered, I need to 
look at whether Barclays failures actually caused  these losses. And if they did, I would need 
to be persuaded  that the 8% simple interest  Barclays has already offered to pay 
Mr and Mrs M doesnt already adequately compensate Mr and Mrs M. I would also need  to 
consider whether its fair to hold Barclays responsible for the losses. To do this, Id need to 
ask whether Barclays could reasonably foresee that its failures would result in losses like 
these. In other words,  Id need to be satisfied  that the losses  werent  too remote from 
Barclays failings.
lost business profits
Ive set out my reasoning on this head of claim below, as previously  set out in my second 
provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs M used  the loan from Barclays to buy a health club. There  was an arrangement 
where a company owned, as I understand matters, wholly by Mr and Mrs M  and which I 
shall call the company   operated at the health  club and paid rent to Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M say they relied on the company paying them rent so they could  in turn repay 
their Barclays loan;  and that Barclays understood this, treated both Mr and Mrs M and the 
company as its customer for the purposes of the loan and swap,  and insisted the rent 
arrangement was through a formal  lease agreement before  it lent them the money. They say 
Barclays was therefore fully aware any increase in borrowing costs  would be borne by the 
company.
Mr and Mrs M argue that the company therefore suffered financial loss because  the money it 
wouldve saved without  the swap couldve been  used in various  ways  to improve the 
business. They say that its clear the swap payments wouldve had an effect simply by 
comparing them to the companys turnover.
Ive thought about this point very carefully,  including what  Mr and Mrs M have said about it
not being their choice  to set up trading like they did, and that it was a condition  of the
Barclays mortgage. I also understand  and appreciate what Mr and Mrs M have said about
Barclays treating them  and the company as one customer, and that, for them,  in practice
they were.  But this doesnt mean  its automatically fair for me to treat them  as the same
entity for the purposes of assessing consequential loss. The liabilities  of the company are
not the liabilities of Mr and Mrs M (and vice versa); Mr and Mrs M wouldnt be personally  
responsible for the liabilities of the company, which has limited  liability.
Its possible the swap couldve  delayed the company taking  off. But the company appears to
be successful and ongoing. So if there  were  any consequential losses suffered by the
company in this regard,  these would be on the companys  balance  sheet. And I wouldnt be
able to make  an award for these losses in this case, because the company is a separate
entity to Mr and Mrs M.
With regards to Mr and Mrs M, theyve said Barclays didnt allow credit facilities  for the 
company; instead  they had to set them up in a personal capacity, and the cost of running the 
business and building  was their responsibility   so any company loss of income  had/has a 
direct effect on them. However, the basic redress Mr and Mrs M have  already  received gave  
them back  the money paid for the swap. Barclays has also offered to pay 8% simple interest 
per year on the swap payments. I also need  to be mindful that if Mr and Mrs M hadnt had 
the swap, it wouldnt have  been  possible for Mr and Mrs M to apply the cash  they saved 
more than once   and theyve indicated  they wouldve used it to pay their mortgage. And 
Ref: DRN65861354they couldnt have used  the same cash to both pay their mortgage  and also apply it 
elsewhere. So even  if Mr and Mrs M suffered lost return  from the company due to the swap,  
this is the type of thing that the 8% interest  on the swap payments is designed to 
compensate for. Ive not seen  any evidence  that any personal loss Mr and Mrs M have 
suffered is greater than the 8% interest,  so Im not persuaded to make any additional  award 
here.
professional fees
Again, Ive set out my reasoning, materially as previously explained in my second provisional 
decision.
Mr and Mrs M have  sought to claim professional fees theyve incurred from a third party 
business review, a valuation fee; and other fees incurred in the preparation and 
advancement of their case.
The third party business review in early 2009 and the valuation in 2012  wouldve most likely 
gone ahead  anyway, even if Mr and Mrs M hadnt  taken  out the swap. I think both are linked 
to difficulties Mr and Mrs Ms business  was experiencing. Mr and Mrs Ms account appears 
to have been moved to Barclays Business Support  team around August 2008.  Barclays 
says its records show this was due to the high gearing of the business,  poor management 
information, the overdraft becoming permanently drawn down, and cash flow issues.  I dont 
think the amount  Mr and Mrs M had paid to the swap  at that time wouldve been significant  
enough to have contributed to these issues. I think that the third party  business review,  that 
seems to have been completed in early 2009, flowed from these separate issues.  I 
appreciate that the valuation fee Mr and Mrs M have referred to was incurred in 2012  but I 
just dont think theres enough  evidence  to say its most likely this wouldnt have been 
incurred anyway (without the swap). Im therefore  not persuaded that the swap caused
Mr and Mrs M to incur  these fees or that Barclays should be required  to refund them.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ms strength of feeling in terms of other fees they say theyve 
incurred in the preparation and advancement of their case. But both the FCA review  and 
bringing a complaint here are free, and I think theyre designed in a way so that professional 
assistance isnt necessary.  So I dont think it would be fair for me to require Barclays  to pay 
professional fees Mr and Mrs M incurred  when they shouldve been  aware  of the FCA 
review. Im aware  Mr and Mrs M previously  indicated they started discussions with 
professional advisers  before the FCA review was announced;  but I asked Mr and Mrs M if 
they could show  they incurred fees for advice before the FCA review  was announced and 
they havent done so.
Mr and Mrs M argue that the fees they incurred in preparing  their consequential loss claim 
are different,  because  the claim needed  to be submitted in a way that satisfied legal tests. 
And they question, since the FCA review  identified them as unsophisticated customers, 
how they could  be expected to meet these legal tests without professional assistance. I can 
see why Mr and Mrs M might have wanted  to obtain professional assistance. But for the 
same reasons Ive already mentioned, I dont think it was necessary. It was the choice 
Mr and Mrs M made  but I dont think they needed  to do that to explain and show their 
consequential loss claim. I therefore make no award  here.  
Ref: DRN65861355mortgage amortisation
This has been the main issue of contention  as this case has progressed.  Mr and Mrs Ms 
central point is that they were unable to pay their mortgage for a significant period because  
of the swap, that this has affected the amortisation  of their mortgage, and that the 
compensation Barclays has offered doesnt  fully compensate for this. Their submissions are 
detailed, which have  included  comparisons  of how their mortgage actually amortised up to 
July 2013 and January 2014, compared to how it would have amortised if theyd made  all of 
their mortgage payments.  Their calculations show a significant difference  between what  the 
mortgage balance  wouldve  been, and they dont think Barclays offer fully makes  up for this.
Ive considered this very carefully. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that Barclays offer is fair and reasonable. In 2014  Barclays 
returned to Mr and Mrs M the £152,759.15 they paid for the swap. Mr and Mrs M could have 
used that money  (the money they paid for the swap) to pay down their mortgage at that 
point. They chose not to, which was their choice and understandable given the priorities  
theyve described. But Ive not found that the swap can reasonably  be said to be responsible 
for other financial losses Mr and Mrs M have sought  to claim (for example business losses, 
for the reasons Ive already explained). So Mr and Mrs M had the opportunity in 2014 to use 
the money they paid for the swap to reduce their mortgage and positively affect the 
amortisation of their mortgage from that point. 
Barclays has also offered to pay Mr and Mrs M 8% simple interest on the swap  payments 
from the date they were  paid until 21 July 2014. Im satisfied that this interest adequately 
compensates Mr and Mrs M for how much extra their mortgage  balance is now as a result  of 
interest accruing  because  Mr and Mrs M were unable, with the swap,  to pay the money that 
they paid for the swap to their mortgage earlier. 
I say this because  in order for the mortgage to amortise as Mr and Mrs M have said they 
expected it to, they would  have needed  to make all of the mortgage payments.  They  didnt 
make any payments to their mortgage from April 2010 until January 2014. Barclays 
calculations indicate  that Mr and Mrs Ms monthly mortgage payments would have been 
approximately £5,280 during this period; whereas Mr and Mrs M have said they wouldve 
been around £4,975. If we use Mr and Mrs Ms figure of £4,975 per month for the mortgage 
here for the sake  of argument (in their favour, because it is lower),  then by July 2013 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve needed to pay an extra £194,000 (approximately) to their mortgage 
(39 payments of £4,975) and by January 2014 they would have needed to pay an extra  
£224,000 (approximately)  to their mortgage (45 payments of £4,975).
However, Mr and Mrs M wouldnt  have been able to meet all of these payments with the 
money they saved  by not having  the swap. As already mentioned, the total amount paid for 
the swap was £152,759.15.  Thats approximately £41,000 short of what  they wouldve 
needed to pay to their mortgage by July 2013,  and £71,000 short of what  they wouldve 
needed to pay to their mortgage by January 2014,  for it to amortise as they wouldve  
expected it to if all mortgage payments had been  made. So even if Mr and Mrs M hadnt had 
the swap and had paid all of the money they saved by not paying the swap to their 
mortgage, there would  still have been a large shortfall in their mortgage payments  and 
their mortgage would not have amortised from these payments alone to the extent 
Mr and Mrs M have  calculated. 
Ref: DRN65861356Mr and Mrs M did pay slightly more because of the swap than what they actually paid to the 
swap. This is because they incurred interest  on the swap payments. All payments  
Mr and Mrs M made for the swap were part and parcel of what they paid to the £80,000 
consolidation loan they took out in February 2010.  This loan comprised approximately  
£55,000 of historic swap payments, and ongoing  swap payments were  also added  to the 
loan and were  payable as part of it. The remaining balance of the loan (approximately 
£25,000) was used  to repay and consolidate  an existing overdraft Mr and Mrs M previously 
had, unconnected to the swap.
So broadly  speaking the swap  was responsible  for £55,000 of the resulting £80,000 loan, 
and therefore  55/80ths of the payments Mr and Mrs M made to repay this balance;  plus the 
ongoing swap payments they made.  This loan started in February 2010 and ended in July 
2013, and it appears  that during this period Mr and Mrs M paid as much (possibly) as 
£186,000 (approximately)  towards both repayment of the £80,000 loan balance and the 
ongoing swap payments. The evidence Ive seen indicates that approximately £100,000 of 
this £186,000 went towards  the ongoing  cost of the swap. And on the basis  that the swap  
was responsible for 55/80ths of the remaining £86,000, which is £59,125,  the actual payments 
Mr and Mrs M paid because  of the swap are fairly  and reasonably represented by £159,125 
(£100,000 plus £59,125). So Mr and Mrs M did pay more because of the swap  during this 
period (£159,125),  compared to what the swap  payments  actually were  (£152,759.12). But 
the parties will appreciate,  if they refer back to (above) the payments  Mr and Mrs M wouldve  
needed to pay to their mortgage during this period for it to amortise in line with 
Mr and Mrs Ms expectations,  that Mr and Mrs M would still have been very substantially 
short (approximately £35,000 short by July 2013 and approximately £65,000 short by 
January 2014) of the amount they needed to pay all of their mortgage payments.
Mr and Mrs M argue that they paid £6,000 per month to the £80,000 loan and that they 
couldve paid this to the mortgage  instead. But as Ive already said,  £25,000 of the £80,000  
loan was to consolidate an overdraft Mr and Mrs M already had (and would still have had but 
for the swap). Mr and Mrs M say without the swap they might  not have repaid this overdraft, 
and so could have used all of the money they paid to the £80,000  loan towards their 
mortgage. I accept  they might have done  this. But Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have been able to 
use all of the money they paid to the £80,000 loan to pay their mortgage and pay off their 
overdraft. If theyd used  the money they paid to repay the £25,000 part of the £80,000 loan 
(that their overdraft was responsible for) to pay their mortgage, their mortgage balance 
would have benefited from those payments, but they would instead have had a 
corresponding balance  due on their overdraft debt cancelling this out, such  that they would 
not be in a significantly different position.  Its true that in this scenario Mr and Mrs M would 
have incurred less interest on their mortgage, but they would have instead incurred interest 
on their overdraft debt. Ive not seen any evidence that makes  me think this wouldnt have 
cancelled out the benefit. And this is why I am satisfied it is fair to compare the amount of 
£159,125 (and not £186,000) as what Mr and Mrs M paid to the £80,000 loan as a result of 
the swap, to the mortgage payments Mr and Mrs M wouldve needed  to make.
 
Im satisfied that the shortfall between the amount Mr and Mrs M wouldve saved by not 
having the swap, and the amount  they wouldve needed to pay to their mortgage,  fully 
explains the difference Mr and Mrs M are concerned about, such that Barclays offer is fair 
and reasonable.  
To make things as clear as I can for Mr and Mrs M, because I know  they have felt strongly 
about this, let me nonetheless consider the recent  calculation Mr M has presented to 
illustrate this point. Mr M has said the mortgage  balance would have been £214,576 lower 
Ref: DRN65861357by July 2013 if Mr and Mrs M had met all mortgage  payments.  Mr Ms position is that its fair 
to assume the entire £186,000 that Mr and Mrs M paid to the £80,000 loan wouldve been 
paid to the mortgage (something I disagree with, for the reasons explained above). But for 
the sake of argument,  lets assume for a moment that this was right. Hes then 
acknowledged that this wouldnt have been  enough  to pay all the mortgage payments  due 
up to that point. So Mr M has taken the amount they wouldve been  short  by, added some 
extra mortgage interest they wouldve  incurred  as a result of being short  on the mortgage 
payments, and then added to this the £25,000  overdraft that wasnt a result of the swap   to 
give an overall shortfall of approximately £47,000. The basis  of Mr Ms calculation is then 
that, essentially, he accepts the swap wasnt responsible for £47,000 of the difference  of 
£214,000 in their mortgage balance. He says, however,  that the swap was responsible  for 
approximately £167,000 of this difference (£214,000  less £47,000). Barclays  offer fully 
compensates for this loss though. The basic redress payment of £152,759.15 (that Barclays  
has already paid Mr and Mrs M) plus the 8% simple  compensatory interest  it has offered to 
pay (which has previously  been  calculated as over £45,000) amounts to more than this. 
Im aware that Mr and Mrs M have previously referred to schedule 1 (page 20) of their 
original consequential  loss claim,  which they say shows their bank balance  in July 2013  
wouldve been £144,977.41 but for the swap. And theyve recently  said this amount doesnt  
just take into account  the swap payments they wouldve saved but other  factors  including  
that sales mightve been in a different place if things had happened differently. So they have 
indicated they could have made up any shortfall  on their mortgage payments  from these  
funds. However, Im satisfied that the figure  of £144,977.41  is based  on all swap  payments 
having not been paid,  and them being applied to Mr and Mrs Ms total cash  balance. But if 
Mr and Mrs M had used  all the money  they saved (from not paying  the swap),  towards their 
mortgage, their total cash balance  would instead  have been  in the negative.  And although 
Mr M has said the estimate is also based  on other  factors  such as sales potentially having  
been different,  as Ive already said, Ive not found their consequential  loss claim for that 
succeeds. So I dont  accept its reasonable to assume Mr and Mrs M wouldve made  any 
additional payments to their mortgage beyond  what  they wouldve  saved  by not having the 
swap. Any in any event,  Mr and Mrs M didnt  make these extra  payments, so I dont think  it 
would be fair to calculate loss on the assumption that they would  have. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M have said the damage to the amortisation of their 
mortgage continues  beyond the term of the swap. And theyve said Barclays told them  to 
make interest only payments whilst  awaiting the outcome of the FCA review. However, the 
cash payments Mr and Mrs M made for the swap were returned to Mr and Mrs M in 2014. 
And it was their choice  then not to pay this compensation to their mortgage in 2014  to 
reduce the balance and reduce the interest  incurred. So I cannot reasonably take into 
account take any extra interest Mr and Mrs M have incurred on their mortgage  since  2014 as 
a result of not paying the basic  redress they received in 2014 to their mortgage then. 
I appreciate there is the issue of Barclays not having  paid Mr and Mrs M the 8% simple  
interest yet. And I can understand why the question  has been  raised  whether there is a 
further loss here  because this hasnt yet been  paid. However, the average interest rate 
applying to Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage since 2014 has been  around 2.45%. And even  if I 
accepted that Mr and Mrs M were  due the 8% compensatory interest in 2014 (and I am not 
necessarily saying that I think that they were)  and even if I accepted  this amount wouldve 
been paid to the mortgage (which Im not convinced on)  then Im still not satisfied that the 
interest Mr and Mrs M wouldve  saved on their mortgage by reducing the balance wouldve  
been enough to mean  Barclays offer still isnt reasonable, given  the examination of the 
figures and reasons Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN65861358To summarise, therefore, Ive found  that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have been able to meet  all 
their mortgage payments  with the money  they saved by not having the swap.  They  would 
have been substantially short, such that if we compare  the difference in how their mortgage 
amortised to how it otherwise would have,  Barclays offer fully compensates  for the 
difference that can be attributed  to the effect  of the swap. 
This isnt inconsistent with what Id expect. Mr and Mrs M have already been refunded what  
they paid for the swap, and their mortgage  amortisation claim therefore essentially centres 
on the extra interest they paid on their mortgage and £80,000 loan. But the interest payable 
on those accounts  appears to have been  less than the 8% simple compensatory interest 
Barclays is offering, which Im satisfied is actually  borne out in an examination of the figures. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that Barclays original offer on this case  is fair and
reasonable. On top of the £152,759.15 its already paid Mr and Mrs M, its offered to pay 
Mr and Mrs M:
£2,805 for returned transaction fees and unpaid referral fees, plus interest on this 
amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date these fees were  incurred to 
the date of settlement;
8% simple interest per year on the swap payments from the date they were  paid until 
21 July 2014.
Barclays has also explained  that if Mr and Mrs M think they have or will pay additional  tax 
because of this compensation, then they can submit a claim for this to Barclays, which 
Barclays will consider, along  with any reasonable accountancy costs  Mr and Mrs M incur in 
calculating any loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that the offer Barclays has already 
made is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6586135