K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains on behalf of the estate of Mr M (her husband).  Shes unhappy about role 
played by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (the business), as the insurer to her 
husbands term assurance policy. 
 
She believes the business couldve done more to ensure her husband was still covered 
whilst a complaint regarding the sale of the policy was being  considered.  She also believes 
the business had an ethical and moral  obligation to do more in the circumstances.  
background
On 10 July 2017, Mr M received a letter from the business to say that his policy, after 15 
years, was due to end on 16 September 2017. It seems that Mr M had only became aware  
that his policy wasnt for whole of life but for a fixed  term only, shortly  before it was to end. 
In early August  2017, Mr M contacted the business to discuss his concerns, and was 
directed to the third-party business that was responsible for the sale (and advice) of the 
policy in 2000.    
On 23 September  2017, Mr M sadly passed away before  he got a response from the seller. 
Mrs P then pursued the complaint  on his behalf and has ended  up representing his estate.  
In due course, our service found that Mr M shouldve been  sold a decreasing  term 
assurance policy in respect of his repayment mortgage, not a level term assurance policy.  
But our service was unable to conclude that the term of the policy had been mis-
represented. Although Mrs P accepted  redress offered  by the seller,  she feels the business 
couldve done more  to help in the circumstances.    
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Having listened  to the (four) call recordings that took place between Mr M and the 
business, on 1 and 2 August 2017,  hes satisfied that the business provided 
adequate clarification regarding Mr Ms queries and outlined options  available  to him 
going forward. 
The call operatives assisted Mr M with a number of issues,  including: 
oExplaining the difference between  a term assurance policy  and a whole  of life 
policy;  
oConfirming that the policy couldnt be extended  so a new policy  would have to 
be arranged; 
oWhy the policy couldnt re-run from 2011, when Mr M corrected his smoker 
status, and the business reduced his sum assured but continued with the 
policy.  
In terms of options, the business provided quotes for two whole of life policies with a 
higher and lower  sum assured, but Mr M never  got back  to the business about setting 
up an alternative cover despite appearing keen  to do so. 
Whilst it mightve been Mr Ms intention to wait for the outcome  of the complaint 
against the seller  before he decided to take out cover, in the circumstances the 
business hasnt  done anything by not arranging cover anyway. 
Ref: DRN68858872The business followed  up Mr M by leaving a voice message and text on 7 August 
2017. Although  Mrs P thinks the business shouldve  followed  this up with another call 
in September  2017, he doesnt agree. 
Mrs P disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In due 
course, she provided a detailed response  about  why she thought  the business fell short  of its 
duties towards Mr M, by failing its basic duties  under  various  principles as set out by the 
industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).  
Overall, she thought the business failed to provide  Mr M with a transitional one-year  term 
assurance policy which wouldve been  suitable. As Mr M died seven days after the policy 
ended, the insurer should treat him as being  within a period  of grace and pay the sum 
assured.  
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs P says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has behaved unreasonably. 
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Ps strength of feeling 
about this matter. Its also important for me to say how sorry I am about the loss of her 
husband in 2017 and her current health  issues. I recognise that it must be a difficult  time for 
her. 
Mrs P has provided detailed and articulate submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered very carefully. However, I hope she wont  take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised, and I dont  intend  to 
go through her submissions point by point. My role is to consider the evidence presented by 
her and the business, and reach  what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its worth  reiterating that in 2002, Mr M was sold the policy  a level term assurance policy 
with a fixed term  by a third-party seller. 
Ref: DRN68858873I note Mr M thought he had a whole of life policy and in July 2017  was surprised to find that it 
was ending in September  2017  but the business, as the insurer  and administrator of the 
policy, isnt responsible for this in any way. Im satisfied that the business  provided cover that 
it was instructed to. 
In other  words, the business  isnt responsible for what Mr M was (and wasnt) told about  the 
policy in terms of its length. Im mindful that a separate  complaint against seller was unable 
to establish that it misrepresented the term of the policy.  
Towards the end of the policy in July 2017, the business notified Mr M that his policy  was 
coming to an end. Im satisfied it did this in good  time, a couple  of months before the policy 
was due to end. I think this wouldve given Mr M time an opportunity to decide  what he 
wanted to do moving  forward   which  is why he called the business in August  2017  which I 
think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
If, the business had forgotten  to write  to Mr M, and Mrs P only found the policy  had ended  
after making an unsuccessful claim,  Id decide differently, but this isnt the case here, and I 
cant say the business  has done  anything wrong.
I note Mr M contacted the business on 1 and 2 August 2017. Having listened  to the call 
recordings Im satisfied  that the business  did its best to try and assist Mr M with his 
concerns, questions and queries, including directing him to the seller  and subsequently  
advising him about alternative  cover.  
Im satisfied that from the outset the business made clear that the policy  couldnt be 
extended  and that Mr W would have to arrange  new cover, going  forward   so Im satisfied 
that the business made its limitations in terms of what it can (and cant  do) clear.    
I note Mr M confirmed  that he wanted  advice from the business,  not from the seller, and that 
he wanted a policy that would pay out a lump sum on death, to his wife, rather than invest  in 
a savings plan as an alternative  or take out another policy with a term. Its important to note 
that in time Mr M didnt accept any recommendation  which was his decision. 
The business was aware of Mr Ms age (68 going on 69), vulnerabilities and his surprise that 
his policy  was due to end. I note the first call operative commented that the older we get the 
more of a risk we become, or words to that effect.  
I appreciate the points  Mrs P makes about  why Mr M wasnt  initially  recommended (an 
interim) term assurance policy  that would cover  the interest-only mortgage that had a year 
left  but this isnt what Mr M wanted.  It seems  to me that Mr M was keen to wait for the 
outcome of the complaint  against the seller  before committing himself  to a specific  policy. 
Im also conscious that Mr M made clear he and Mrs P were meeting with the bank  (in a 
months time) to review the interest-only  mortgage.  Like the investigator I also think its 
reasonable to assume that this was going to happen before the policy  had come to an end, 
and that Mr M would therefore have had the opportunity to weigh up his options  and get 
back in touch with the business in due course. 
So, I dont think the business  inability to deliver some kind of transitional policy, in respect  
of their interest-only mortgage, means the business acted without due care,  skill and 
diligence, because it couldnt force Mr M to do something he didnt want  to do. And that 
seems to be a running theme throughout this complaint.
Ref: DRN68858874 
To assist Mr M  in line with what he wanted (and thought he had)  I note the business  
provided quotes for two different whole of life polices  with different levels of cover  (and 
premiums)  that arguably couldve covered a mortgage and more.  I cant  say that this was 
motivated by profit rather than a desire  to simply help Mr M get what  he wanted. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs P says, Im satisfied that the 
business also provided these quotes in the post as it had undertaken to do so. Its possible 
that Mr M might not have received them  because  letters can go missing in the post. But if 
this is what happened  I cant  blame  the business  for the actions of a third-party postal 
service. I note Mr M was told to call back if he didnt hear from the business,  but it appears  
he didnt do so.  
Instead I note that the business called Mr M as a follow  up call and left a voice message and 
text that was never returned. In the circumstances I dont think  the business can reasonably 
be expected to have done any more.  
I note the business even  suggested that Mr M consider placing the policy  in trust so that in 
the event of a valid claim the money  can go to a nominated person, and not to his estate, as 
hed wanted.  
  
Im mindful of Mrs Ms final point,  but the business  is under  no obligation to honour a claim 
made outside of the term of the policy. Therefore, I cant say the business  has done anything  
wrong by not paying out following the death of Mr M, which  sadly occurred seven  days  after 
the policy ended.
I appreciate Mrs P will be very unhappy  Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the 
investigator. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable  to say that the 
business has behaved unreasonably.  On the contrary Im satisfied it endeavoured  to help 
Mr M. 
So, I realise my decision isnt what Mrs P wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, 
Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P on behalf  of 
the estate of Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 29 November 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6885887