K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limited.  He isnt happy that it 
wouldnt settle his claim under  his taxi insurance policy following an accident.
background
Mr B has made a claim  under his taxi insurance  policy after he was involved in an accident.  
Haven looked  into the circumstances surrounding the accident and turned down the claim. 
This was because it didnt  think the accident  happened as Mr B had described.
So, Mr B complained to Haven and then this service. But our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. She was of the view that Haven hadnt  acted unreasonably as it had genuine  
questions and concerns about  Mr Bs claim.
As Mr B didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration, but Haven is entitled to investigate  the circumstances  
surrounding the claim and to decide whether it will pay the claim. And in this instance, it 
doesnt feel that the accident happened as described. 
I note that there has been differences in description about how the accident happened from 
both sides; that the accident happened  in a remote location; that there  wasnt  any 
independent witnesses or CCTV; that Mr Bs taxi had been off road and had only just been 
put back on the road; that Haven has ongoing enquiries; that the third party made  a number 
of significant injury claims; that Mr B thought  the other side drove into him deliberately  yet he 
didnt contact the police; and that Mr B had to be chased a number of times  for an interview.
Furthermore, I note that Mr B was untruthful about how and when  he purchased his car. 
Although he has acknowledged this, I can understand why Haven has questions around his 
account and the circumstances surrounding  the claim. Given  all of this I dont think I can say 
Haven has acted unreasonably and so Im not upholding this complaint.
Finally, I understand  that Haven has paid Mr B the salvage value for his car which  seems  fair 
as his car was a write  off.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6593276