K822xcomplaint
Ms Js complaint is about the handling  of a claim by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA)
under the home emergency section  of her home insurance policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month,  part of which is copied 
below: 
Ms J made  a claim to IPA on 21 April 2017, in relation to a foul water leak. IPA arranged for 
its contractors to attend. The contractors said theyd need to access  part of the drainpipe 
located under decking in Ms Js garden and she should contact her home insurer  to get the 
decking removed.  Ms Js home buildings insurance  policy covers the cost of tracing  and 
accessing the source of leaks. 
On 26 May 2018, having spoken to her home insurer and the water  supplier, Ms J told IPA it 
could access the drain  pipe without  the decking  being removed, so asked one of its 
engineers to visit the property again. The contractor initially visited  while Ms J was abroad so 
couldnt carry out any work (Ms J says she told IPA she would  be away) as there  was no 
adult in the property. 
Ms J called IPA again on 4 June 2017  to report that sewage had again flooded  her kitchen, 
emanating from behind the dishwasher. IPA returned on 5 June 2017  and said it could still 
not access the drain, so it cut the main soil stack and used a high pressure jet to clear the 
drain.
Ms J contacted IPA again on 10 June 2017 to say the problem had reoccurred;  albeit  not 
from the dishwasher this time but when  the shower  or toilet were  being used, water was 
coming up from the kitchen sink. IPA apparently agreed that a CCTV survey  should be 
carried out but the contractor who came out that day, didnt know  that and so jetted the drain  
again. 
Ms J then reported on 14 June 2017 that there was a leak from the new joint on the soil 
stack, where IPA had cut the soil pipe to jet the drain.
 
IPA came back  out on 16 June 2017 and carried out a CCTV survey of the drain. The report 
from this stated that there were cracks in the drainpipe, which  had caused  cloths and wipes 
to accumulate causing a blockage. It was this that resulted in the escape  of water into Ms Js 
home. IPA says the drain  was cleared  and left running clear on that day.
Ms J says that IPAs  contractor caused  the damage  to the drainpipe, so should  cover the 
cost of repairing  it. Shes also raised  concerns  about the service received and the amount of 
time taken  to resolve the problem.  Ms J has also said that IPA didnt look into the complaint 
when she first raised it. 
IPA says its policy only covers emergency  situations  and once  the drain was cleared, it had 
met its obligation under the policy. It says the policy doesnt provide cover  for the work 
required to permanently repair the drain.  
I understand that the results of the CCTV survey  was passed to Ms Js home insurer  and it 
has agreed to carry out the repair of the drain and the repairs to Ms Js home under her 
Ref: DRN60942832home insurance policy, including damage to the wooden  floor in the kitchen. I understand 
that claim is still ongoing. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and considered that IPA couldve done more  
to assist in getting  the report from the contractor  to confirm what  the cause of the damage 
was, so that Ms J could  pass  it onto her home insurer. During this period Ms J was also sent 
a report for the wrong property causing  unnecessary  delay and worry. However, the 
investigator didnt  think  there was enough  evidence to suggest  that IPA had caused  the 
cracks in the drainpipe. The investigator  recommended that IPA pay Ms J compensation of 
£150 for the handling of her claim.  
IPA accepts that it failed  to provide  a reasonable service to Ms J but thinks that £100 
compensation would be more appropriate.  
Ms J does not accept  the investigators  assessment. She says IPA lied about  the reason it 
took so long to address and fix the issue and this is unacceptable; yet it still doesnt agree to 
pay the nominal award the investigator recommended.  Ms J says she does not use wipes 
and as the drain was cracked it should have been repaired. Ms J also says that IPA has 
misled the investigator  about the number  of times she had to contact it to try and get its 
contractors to come out and do the necessary repair. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  referred  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The section of cover  underwritten by IPA provides cover for emergency situations arising 
from blocked mains drainpipes. The main  part of the buildings  policy (provided by a different  
insurer) provides cover for the repair of the pipe itself but not clearing it. So the two sections  
of cover are intended to work together. I therefore agree that IPA is not responsible for 
repairing the damaged pipe under its section of cover. 
Ms J has also suggested that IPAs  contractors caused the damage to the pipe itself but 
there is no convincing  evidence to support this. It does seem reasonable to accept that it 
was cracks  in the pipework that caused  the blockage. Ms J says that she doesnt use wipes  
but I dont think  this is significant. The fact is the drain was blocked,  it doesnt really matter  
what with, and IPA was responsible, under the policy, for clearing  this.
It took approximately six weeks  to effectively jet the drain clear. This delay meant that there  
were further  leaks of foul water into Ms Js kitchen. It also seems  to me that there was 
around six weeks delay  (between 21 April to 5 June) caused by IPA saying the decking 
needed to be removed, when it was able to clear the drain without removing it. And then 
when Ms J re-reported the problem, there  was a delay of several days  before the contractors 
came out again.  For a foul waste blockage and in the context of home emergency cover, this 
was not reasonable. 
I also note there were other issues: Ms J was apparently  sent a survey report for another  
customer and had to ask again  for her report to provide to her home insurer;  and IPA did 
register her complaint when she first raised it but then closed it erroneously.  
Ref: DRN60942833Overall, I consider that IPA has caused  additional distress and inconvenience  to Ms J which  
could have been avoided. I consider that the sum of £400 is appropriate in all the 
circumstances of the case.  
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA and require it to pay   
Ms J the sum of £400 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its 
handling of this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
IPA has confirmed it received my provisional decision and has not provided any further 
information. 
Ms J has also responded and confirmed she accepts my provisional decision. She has 
pointed out that my provisional decision didnt mention or was incorrect  about some  details: 
for instance, IPA failed  to say that there  was meant  to be an appointment before she went  on 
holiday but it didnt  turn up; they booked the next appointment knowing she was away  but 
failed to query if there would be an adult present; she didnt accuse IPA of damaging  the 
drains but she did suggest  that the damaged  parts were also the parts where the blockages 
were and so it is plausible. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that there was apparently meant to be another appointment before Ms J went 
away and Ms Js clarification about  the possibility of the attempts to clear  the blockages  
causing damage. 
Ms J has also asked  if the lack of communication between the two insurers  will be 
investigated separately. This decision is about  the handling of the home emergency claim by 
IPA. It takes into account that IPA apparently advised incorrectly  that she would  need  to get 
her home insurer to take up her decking and the time taken  to provide her with the report  for 
her home insurer. I have no power  to require insurers to change their practices,  including  
how they communicate with other insurers, so I did not make any further  investigation or 
findings about how or why these matters happened. I can only address the effect of any 
such difficulties on an individual consumer. 
I addressed in my provisional decision the effect  these failings in communication had on    
Ms J, which was mainly to unnecessarily delays getting the matter finally resolved. Ms J has 
also started a new complaint against  her home insurer, which will address any failings on its 
part. 
Overall, I dont  consider  that these comments make  a difference  to the outcome; and as both 
parties accept my provisional  decision, I see no reason to change  it. 
Ref: DRN60942834I therefore remain of the opinion  that the claim  was not handled as it should, resulting in 
avoidable and unnecessary distress  and inconvenience to Ms J and that the sum of £400 
compensation is appropriate for this. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Inter Partner  Assistance  SA and require it to pay Ms J the 
sum of £400  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its handling of this 
matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6094283