K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Topaz Finance Limited (trading  as Rosinca Mortgages) would only 
correspond with him by email about his two buy-to-let  (BTL) mortgage accounts, as he says 
every time a letter is posted  to him, he has to pay £127.50 for a third-party company to 
decode it for him. Mr P wants Rosinca to pay the costs he says hes incurred so far for that 
service, and to only use email going forward. 
Hes also unhappy that a letter was sent to one of the BTL properties (rather  than his 
residential address)  when he redeemed the mortgage secured on it. He says the tenants 
opened the letter and then they refused to pay the full rent that was due. 
The other BTL mortgage  account remains open.
background
An ombudsman colleague issued  a decision in January 2020 in which he explained we 
couldnt consider  everything Mr P had initially complained  about.  My summary  of the 
complaint above  only includes the points my colleague said we could consider.
The first investigator that looked at things felt the £200 offered by Rosinca for the letter being 
sent to the BTL property was fair and reasonable. He also said Rosinca should cover the 
costs of the third-party decoding the letters from 24 July 2018 onwards, and that all future 
correspondence should be sent in font size 12 in line with Mr Ps request in 2018.
Rosinca didnt agree  as it wasnt happy with the invoices Mr P had provided. It said it would 
reconsider if Mr P provided suitable  evidence of the costs he said hed incurred.
As the first investigator left our service the case was reassigned  to a new investigator.  He 
looked at things afresh and agreed  with Rosinca that the invoices werent sufficient to prove 
the costs Mr P wanted to claim. As Mr P wasnt happy with that the case  has been  passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr P wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Mr Ps made detailed submissions  in support of his complaint and I thank him for 
those. Ive taken  note of everything hes said, but I wont be responding to each and every  
point, or in as much  detail. No discourtesy is intended by this; it simply reflects  the informal 
nature of our service and my role in it. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment on any specific  point,  such 
as the individual laws Mr P thinks Rosinca has breached, its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome. 
Tenants
In April 2018 Rosinca  sent a letter to the BTL property address, rather than Mr Ps residential 
address, saying the mortgage had been redeemed. Mr P says the letter was opened by his 
Ref: DRN63708512tenants, and they then refused to pay the full rent as they could see the mortgage had been 
redeemed. Mr P says that led to him asking the tenants to leave the property and it then took 
some time to find new tenants, which led to a void period. Rosinca  offered Mr P £200  
compensation.
The starting point  here is that theres  no link between a mortgage being repaid (or even 
whether there is a mortgage in the first place) and the rent that is due on a property. The 
financial standing of the landlord has no bearing on the rent due from the tenants,  and a 
mortgage being repaid  doesnt mean a replacement mortgage hasnt (or isnt going to be) 
taken out elsewhere.  In any event, a mortgaged property can be rented out for the same 
amount as a property  that is unencumbered,  there  is simply no link between the two things.  I 
cant hold Rosinca liable for the actions of Mr Ps tenants  either in opening his post, or in 
deciding they no longer  needed to pay their contractual rent  and so I cant uphold the main 
thrust of this part of the complaint.
That said,  Rosinca admitted it made a mistake and Im satisfied the £200 it offered for that is 
fair and reasonable. Rosinca isnt liable  for the rent Mr P says he lost as thats not a 
reasonably foreseeable outcome to the letter being  sent to the property address, rather than 
Mr Ps residential address  next door.
Invoices
Mr P has provided copies of invoices  from a company that he says he had to pay to decode  
letters that were sent to him by Rosinca.  Ill refer to the company in question  as S and the 
named individual on the invoices as Mr B.
Rosinca wasnt comfortable  with the invoices  that had been  provided, and I share  its 
concerns. Whilst I have absolutely no doubt about  Mr Ps integrity, Im sure he can 
understand that invoices like hes provided  can be easily produced and that less honest 
people could  abuse that and try to claim money that isnt due, and that they havent  paid.
Ill reiterate that Ive no reason to believe Mr P is doing that, but it is an important part of our 
service that we test all the evidence provided,  and a quick and simple test of this evidence  is 
for us to be able to independently locate and verify  the company in question and/or be 
provided with proof of the invoices being  paid.
On 24 September  2020 our investigator emailed Mr P saying:
I have attempted to find out more information  about  the service  that you have paid for but 
a Google search  of [S] and the name [Mr B] dont bring up anything. It may help if you 
were able to explain  how you were introduced to them.
Mr P emailed back on 28 September  2020:
After further  communications with [S], regarding the above aforementioned  matters, 
and your attempt  to backpedal  the original findings of the [original investigator] . [Mr B] 
has provided me with permission to give you their email [email  address] to confirm his 
support and my expenses  incurred.
Then on 6 November 2020 Mr P provided a website address for S.
Ref: DRN63708513Ive considered this information carefully  but I have some serious concerns about the 
information provided. A look behind the scenes  of the website seems  to indicate that the 
website was only created  on 25 September 2020  which was the day after our investigator 
told Mr P he couldnt find any trace of the company. The website can only be found by 
entering the exact address into the internet; it doesnt show in any searches and there  
doesnt seem to be any other online or social media presence. The only contact information 
on the website  is the email  address  Mr P provided,  and theres no real explanation of how 
the company can support anyone that wants to use its service, such that youd expect from a 
website advertising  a companys services.
Because we couldnt be satisfied that we could independently locate and verify the company 
we asked Mr P to provide bank statements to prove hed paid the invoices that hed 
supplied. We asked  Mr P to supply those  on 15 December 2020, and we also asked again 
how Mr P had found the company S as hed not answered that question  when wed asked it 
previously:
As we dont have  sufficient information  regarding the invoices (and the ombudsman 
doesnt think that the reply from the email  address  you provided is sufficient) then 
can you please provide bank statements to show each of the payments made to pay 
each of the invoices.
The ombudsman has asked for further  clarification regarding  how you found the 
company. For example, was it recommended by someone; an online  search; an 
advert or some other method?
Mr P replied  but didnt  provide copies of his bank statements. In relation to how he found the 
company he said:
Irrelevant and personal. The question that should be requested is why Rosinca keep 
refusing to email  me in accordance with my provisions and the Equality  Act 2010
Despite a reminder from our investigator  on 23 December 2020  that we wouldnt be able to 
order Rosinca to pay the invoices without copies  of Mr Ps bank statements to show  hed 
made the payments, weve not received the statements. Mr P had said hed only provide 
copies of his bank statements if we guaranteed that wed then order Rosinca to pay all the 
invoices. But as it was explained to Mr P, thats not how this service  works. It is up to each 
side to provide the evidence requested, and once weve got everything we need  we then 
reach a decision  on what a fair outcome  is.
As Mr P has chosen to not provide the evidence required to prove the invoices were paid 
then I cant order Rosinca  to cover those costs.  For that reason  I dont  uphold  this part of 
Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN63708514Reasonable adjustments
Mr P has made different requests over the years as to what reasonable adjustments he 
needs. Thats understandable  as needs  change. For instance, in November  2012  Mr P 
requested all correspondence be sent to him on grey paper, with blue ink and a size 14 font.
In February 2018  that changed to black print in a size 12 font as he had a machine that 
could read that. And in July 2018 Mr P asked  he no longer be sent A3 correspondence, and 
that was switched off 
In April 2020 Mr P emailed Rosinca and said:
Rosinca mortgages continue to abuse the environment by mailing  superfluous further 
5 pages of A4 letters and X2 A3 that is absolutely  incomprehensible,  as I cannot 
decode the aforementioned letters, that then imposing me to attached further  paper 
exhibits
And in August 2020 Mr P emailed our investigator, saying:
Paper waste & text Size: You may recall I have informed your goods selves  on 
numerous occasions that I am still receiving unlawful mailed letters from Rosinca 
dated 27-29  March 2020, and in superfluous  A3 and A4 formats that is considered 
harassment and is causing me superfluous alarm  and distress. It is evident that 
Rosinca has breached their duty of care to me by obviating my correspondence and 
requests.
Our investigator asked  for examples of correspondence still being  sent in A3 as Rosinca  
believed that had been turned off in 2018,  so it was important that we got to the bottom of 
what had gone  wrong. Mr P replied that [S] will look through the voluminous documentation  
and I return with a accurate  response.  But we never heard anything  further.  As weve not 
been provided with details  of any letters going  out in A3 format since that was turned off 
mid-2018 were  unable to contact Rosinca  to try to rectify that situation for Mr P so I cant 
uphold this part of his complaint.
In terms of the size 12 font, and the machine  to read it, our investigator asked Mr P in his 
email of 15 December  2020:
You mentioned previously being  able to receive paper letters in font 12 as you could 
feed them into a machine. What was the machine and are you still able to use it? If you 
are unable to use the machine then could  you please explain why this is the case.
In reply, Mr P said:
 the 12 font and colour wording were for my dear wife to assist me with decoding 
mailed documents. The only way I can now decode mailed letters  in via digital text i.e. 
email correspondence.
Ref: DRN63708515Our investigator pointed  out that couldnt  be right as Mr Ps wife had sadly died in July 2017, 
and the request to use size 12 font (so the machine could be used)  wasnt  made until 
February 2018. In reply  Mr P said:
Owing to my disabilities and short-term memory I cannot provide your good selves 
with a definitive answer as I cannot  recall  the events of 2018 and the fact I was 
grieving heavily. However, if you could provide me with further  calcifications and 
illustrations of what you are trying to ascertain I may assist your good selves.
Mr P had emailed Rosinca on 6 February 2018,  and in that hed said:
 my text and speak  software is set to black 12 font.
We also mentioned accessibility software  that is freely available  and asked whether Mr P 
had considered that option as hed have  been able to use this to scan the normal  letters and 
read that into a suitable format. Mr P said he couldnt do that because:
 
Owing to my short term memeory issues and my Raynaud disease, I cannot  scan  
papers as my fingers are always painful a feeling  of being on fire and I cannot recall  
what has been scanned
But Mr P wouldnt need to scan papers. Hed simply need to take a photo of them, just like 
he has with the piles of letters hes sent us and the business as exhibits. Accessibility 
software could then be run on those  photographs to convert the text to speech.
If Mr P is unaware of the various different options for support thats available to him then Id 
recommend he contact a professional, recognised body that can signpost him to the support 
that might  be available, rather than a company that charges him £127.50 to help with every  
single letter he receives in the post.  For signposting  to the help available,  Mr P could  contact 
his GP or Citizens Advice. Alternatively, Mr Ps local council  may be able to assist.  Its clear 
from Mr Ps submissions  that he has various different needs, and I cant imagine how hard 
things have been for him, especially with the loss of his wife in 2017.  I do understand how 
hard it can be to ask for help, but I really hope Mr P does  ask as he may find help is 
available that he was unaware  of, rather than being  beholden  to a company that is charging 
him £127.50 each  time for something  that freely available software can do.
I hope Mr P is able to access the assistance he needs, but as weve  explained we cant  
order a business  to only correspond with him by email, however much he may want  us to. 
Were not the regulator so weve no power to order a business  to change the way it 
operates. For all the reasons given I cant uphold  this part of Mr Ps complaint.
Looking forward
I understand Mr P has recently said that hes moved  out of his residential property, and that 
he isnt willing to disclose  his new address, thus meaning the only method of contact is 
email.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps mortgage  account (at 16e) state:
We will send all notices to you at the property address  unless you have given us 
written details of another address which we should  send notices to. In this case we will 
send notices to the last address you have  given us.
Ref: DRN63708516Based on this it seems  if Mr P doesnt  give Rosinca a new address to write to then it will 
either write to the property address or the last address hed given it (so his residential 
property next door).  If any such post is then opened  by a third-party, we wont be able to 
hold Rosinca liable for that as that is the risk Mr P will be taking by not providing  the correct  
address for Rosinca  to write to.
I would urge Mr P to provide his current address  to the business as it has the right to know 
where its customers are living. If Mr P doesnt provide that information then the business 
may instruct tracing agents  to locate Mr P, and any costs  involved  in that may possibly be 
charged to his mortgage account thus increasing  the amount he owes.
Ive only added this final section as an explanation to try to help Mr P find a way forward  as 
these are new issues that have only recently been  mentioned so weve no power to formally  
consider them. Our formal  consideration is limited to the issues  I set out in the complaint 
section at the start of this decision, new issues cant be added  whilst a complaint is ongoing. 
I leave it to Mr P to deal with any new complaints  directly with Rosinca, and if he remains 
unhappy he can then refer those new complaints to us (subject to our usual rules, of course).
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6370851