K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Canada Square  Operations  Limited (Canada Square), trading as Egg, 
mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2002, Mr L applied for a credit card online.  At the same time he was sold PPI. The PPI 
protected his card repayments if he wasnt able to work because of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. In these circumstances, it would have paid off ten percent of the outstanding 
balance each month for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr L says that he doesnt recall deciding to take PPI when he applied  for his credit  card.  He 
thinks that the option in his online application to take PPI may have been  pre-selected. He 
also doesnt think Canada  Square made it sufficiently  clear that PPI was a separate,  optional  
product. And he says he thinks  he recalls being pushed into saying he required the PPI to 
get his card application accepted in a conversation with a Canada Square  representative.  
However, it doesnt seem as if Mr L has a particularly vivid recollection of this sale. This isnt 
that surprising  given how long ago it took place. But to be fair to both parties, I need to look 
at all the information I have available to me and decide what I think  is most likely to have 
happened at the time.
Canada Square  has provided screen shots which it says would have been seen by Mr L at 
the time he completed  his application. These show two options  for PPI:
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments  against accident, sickness and unemployment...  
No, I do not wish to protect  my repayments... 
There are radio buttons  which can be selected  to choose the desired option and neither 
appears to be pre-selected. Canada Square says that it would have been necessary for Mr L 
to select one of these buttons  for the application to progress further. And I dont think Ive got 
any good reason  for thinking  that this wasnt the case.
Canada Square  has also provided a copy of a computer generated Applications  Report  for 
Mr L which shows Y under the heading  Payment protection.
Ive also considered what we know more generally  about how Canada  Square sold PPI 
online at around  this time. And this leads me to think that Mr L would have needed  to choose 
Ref: DRN67500742whether he wanted  PPI when he was completing his card application. And I dont think it 
would have been added to his card account unless  he had chosen to take it.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr L has said about recalling being pushed into taking the 
PPI. But Canada Square doesnt appear to have any record  of a phone call with Mr L at 
around the time of the sale. And from what I know about its normal sales practices,  I dont 
think its that likely that one of its telephone representatives would have wrongly put pressure  
on Mr L to take PPI in this way.
So on the evidence  available  to me, I think its more likely than not that Mr L actively decided 
to take the PPI offered,  knowing  he could  choose not to. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Canada Square  gave Mr L the wrong impression that he needed to agree to 
PPI to get his card application approved. But this sale took place a long time ago, so I can 
understand why Mr L may not be able to remember making this choice now. 
In responding  to our adjudicators view, Mr L has said that Canada Square didnt make  sure 
that the policy it sold him was suitable,  given  his circumstances  at the time. But I dont think 
Canada Square  recommended  the PPI policy to Mr L, so it didnt have  to ensure that it was 
suitable for him. What it did need to do was to give him enough information about the PPI for 
him to decide, himself,  whether  he wanted to take it.
I can see that the cost of the policy was given  to Mr L when he was making his decision. The 
policys key terms and conditions also seem to have available  for him to read. And in 
selecting to take it, he was also being asked to confirm that he had read and agreed  to these 
terms. 
Nevertheless, I think that the information  which Canada Square  gave Mr L about the PPI 
policy could have been better  than it was. But from what  I know of his circumstances at the 
time, I dont think better information would have changed his mind  about taking the cover.  I 
say this because:
Mr L appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions and limitations.
Mr L says he had other means of making his card repayments if he wasnt  able to work  
and didnt need the cover that the PPI policy gave him. But he chose  to take it out, so it 
seems he valued  this type of protection. And the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any other means that he had available. It would have paid off ten percent of his 
outstanding card balance each month,  leaving his alternative means available  to be used 
for other  essential  expenditure. So I think he would  have still found  the cover  useful in 
providing him with this additional level of security.
The cost of the PPI seems to have been priced relatively competitively when compared 
with similar  products  from other  providers and Ive no reason to think  that it was 
unaffordable for Mr L. And as the monthly premium  for the PPI cover was shown on his 
card statements,  he could have  cancelled the policy  if he thought  it no longer met his 
needs and wasnt  worth paying  for. 
Ive thought carefully about all the reasons why Mr L thinks  that the PPI was mis-sold to him 
by Canada Square. But these havent  changed  my mind about not upholding his complaint. I 
still dont think that hes lost out by anything that Canada Square may have done wrong 
when it sold him this PPI policy.
Ref: DRN67500743my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Canada Square  Operations 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6750074