K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs G says National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think NatWest  most likely made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it. I say that because NatWest  has provided the 
actual documentation  from the time of the sale.  To get the cover  Mr and Mrs G had to 
select it. And the application  for the PPI was separate to the application for the 
mortgage and with a separate payment mandate. It seems most likely  this was done  
following a discussion with the representative.  Mr and Mrs G signed  the form 
agreeing to its contents. Mr and Mrs G chose  the cover by completing the form and 
did so, most likely, knowing  they had a choice about  it  although I can understand 
why they cant  remember this now, many years  later
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs G got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been   such as details of how much the policy would cost. But 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it seems  they were  eligible 
for the policy and it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions from 
or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that Mr and Mrs G told us that Mr G 
had sick pay that would not have  lasted more then three months. Whilst Miss Hs sick 
pay was good  initially it dropped significantly after six months. Mr and Mrs G also told 
us they had only modest other  means  they could  have relied on in that circumstance 
or if they lost a job. This PPI policy could have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr and 
Mrs G were too ill to work for a long time and would  have done so in addition to any 
sick pay arrangements Mr and Mrs G may have had. And the policy  would have paid 
out for up to 12 months if Mr and Mrs G lost a job. So, I think the policy would have  
been useful to them if something  went wrong.  So, considering all of the above, I dont 
think better information about  the PPI and its cost would have put Mr and Mrs G off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said about the case, but these points dont 
change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs G paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
Ref: DRN65014262NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Gs PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Gs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs G back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6501426