K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs K complain  that they were unfairly  charged fees for exiting their investments
with Zopa  Limited.
background
Mr C and Mrs K held loan-based (peer-to-peer) crowdfunding accounts with Zopa. Mr C 
opened his Access  account in December 2012  and Mrs K in June  2016.
In December 2017, Zopa made the decision to retire its Access  and Classic accounts and so
its members had to decide whether to move  their loan repayments into either  its Core  or
Plus accounts.
Mr C decided to open a Core account  in February  2018. As did Mrs K in March 2018. She
also opened an additional Core account in the form of an ISA wrapper  in April 2018.
Mr C and Mrs K say they were told the main difference between the Access  and Core
accounts was that a 1% fee applied  to selling loans on the secondary market in the Core
account. However, they later found  out that the safeguard fund (a provision fund designed to
protect investors when  borrowers are unable to make their repayments) also didnt apply to
investments made in the Core  account.  Mr C and Mrs K say they found out about this
through a third-party website and immediately  requested to cancel their investments with
Zopa on 16 April 2018.  At the time, Zopa  explained  they had waived their rights to a 14-day
cooling off period when they originally became a member of the platform and invested  in
loans. Mr C and Mrs K say Zopa  also didnt  make them aware  of this when they opened  their
accounts.
Mr C and Mrs K complained to Zopa as they felt they werent given all the information they
needed to make an informed decision to invest. If they had, they wouldnt have invested  in
the Core account  as it had no safeguard fund protection, the interest  rates were too low, and
their investments were  tied up for five years. Having been told they couldnt  cancel  their 
investments they decided  to sell. However,  they were charged a market  rate adjustment fee
for doing so.
Ref: DRN60776982Zopa didnt  agree that it had mis-led Mr C and Mrs K. In summary it said:
It sent its investors several communications about the retirement  of the safeguard 
fund, along with posts being shared on Zopas website and messages being 
displayed when  investors accessed  their account.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) requires it to offer a 14-day 
cancellation period when an investor initially opens an account.  However,  Mr C and 
Mrs K forfeited  the right to cancel  when they invested in loans within the 14 days of 
becoming members of Zopa.
This is clearly outlined in the Principles Mr C and Mrs K agreed  to.
When Mr C and Mrs K opened  their Core account they were  presented  with key 
features of the account, which they had to acknowledge theyd understood before 
proceeding.
These explained the annualised projected  return for the account was 4.5% and that 
loans could be for a term of up to five years.
The Core key features  also explained  their capital was at risk and mentioned the 1% 
sale fee and market rate adjustment fee.
The Principles also explained that all Zopa  products  are subject to the market rate 
adjustment fee.
So it didnt agree to refund Mr C and Mrs K any fees for exiting their investments.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr C and Mrs Ks complaint but didnt  uphold  it. In
summary he said:
He was satisfied  that Zopa provided  clear,  fair and not misleading  information about 
the Core account.
Mr C and Mrs K ought to have known  their investments could be matched to loans 
with terms of up to five years; their loans could default and so their capital was at 
risk; there was a 1 % sale fee to access funds early and that a market  rate 
adjustment could  apply when selling loans.
Zopa had evidenced  several communications were sent out to investors,  along  with 
posts being shared on Zopas  website  about  the retirement of the safeguard fund.
All investments  have  to have a 14-day cooling off period, but he thought  an exception 
applied which meant Mr C and Mrs K couldnt cancel.
Mr C and Mrs K didnt  accept our investigators  opinion. They say the five-year  term was not
listed on the Core key features screen when opening up the account. They also say Zopa
didnt make it clear that advertised interest rates  are based on continued re-investment.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2021. In it I said:
In reaching my provisional conclusions on this case,  Ive taken into account  industry  good
practice and any applicable guidance  or rules  from the FCA. These include the Principles for
Business (PRIN). Most relevant are:
2.1 A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence; and
2.7 A firm must pay due regard to the information needs  of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Ref: DRN60776983Ive also considered the obligations set out in the Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
Most relevant are:
2.1.1R (1) A firm must  act honestly,  fairly and professionally in accordance  with the 
best interests of its client; and
4.2.1R (1) A firm must  ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading.
There are two questions I need to answer in order to decide the complaint. Namely:
Did Zopa  provide Mr C and Mrs K with fair, clear  and not misleading information 
about the Core  account before they decided to invest?
Should Zopa have  allowed Mr C and Mrs K to cancel their investments and withdraw  
their funds  without paying  any fees?
Did Zopa  provide Mr C and Mrs K with fair, clear  and not misleading information about  the
Core account before  they decided to invest?
Mr C and Mrs K feel quite  strongly that Zopa  failed  to inform them of the important features
of the Core account  and how it differed from their old accounts with Zopa.  However, having
reviewed all the information Zopa provided to Mr C and Mrs K when they opened their Core
accounts, I dont  agree.
Zopa has provided our service with an explanation of the process Mr C and Mrs K followed
in order to open their Core accounts   including  screenshots of what information was
presented to them. When selecting  the option  of adding the Core account as a new
investment product, Mr C and Mrs K were presented with information regarding the account.
This included an annualised projected  return for the account of 4.5%. From the wording
used, its clear this is only a projected  return rate and not guaranteed.  Furthermore,  Zopa
explained that the rate was based  on the capital weighted average loan interest minus the
expected principle loss and Zopas  loan servicing fee. Again, reinforcing that this was simply
a target  interest rate based on average  loan interest rates  and expected losses.  Zopa also
explained at this stage of the process that the Core account involved lending  to individuals
taking loans of up to five years. So Im satisfied  Zopa made them  aware that they might  not
be able to achieve a 4.5%  rate of return on their investments  and that they could be invested
in loans with terms  of up to five years.
Mr C and Mrs K also say Zopa didnt make  it clear that the advertised rate was based on
continued re-investment and so its impossible to withdraw money and still achieve this rate
of return. Its difficult for me to say with any certainty  whether re-investment is required in
order to achieve  the projected rate of return, as it would depend on number of factors.  Such
as the interest  rates on the individual loans Mr C and Mrs K were  matched to, as well as the
amount of bad debt that incurs on these.  Both of which were  listed  by Zopa in its explanation
of how the projected  rate of return was calculated. However, what  I can safely say is that
Zopa made no guarantee as to what rate of return Mr C and Mrs K would achieve through
investing in the Core  account. Im also minded that Mr C and Mrs K had the option to not
have their interest repayments re-invested  into new loans if they didnt want to. So again,  I
dont think Zopa misled Mr C and Mrs K here.
Ref: DRN60776984When adding the Core account,  Mr C and Mrs K were also given information  regarding
accessing money already invested  in the account.  It made it clear  there  was no guarantee
that investors would  be able to access their money  before the loans they invested in had
matured. But investors could try to sell their outstanding loans to other investors  on the
secondary market  and fees would apply.
Having clicked to add the Core account, Mr C and Mrs K were  presented  with the key
features of the Core account. Before proceeding, they had to confirm they had read and
understood these.  One of the key features was that a 1% fee would apply  to any loans sold
to other  investors before the end of the loan term. Another was that a market  rate adjustment
fee would  be payable to the purchasing  investor for any loans being sold that are worth  less
than equivalent  loans. The market rate adjustment fee was also clearly outlined  in the
Principles Mr C and Mrs K agreed  to when  becoming a Zopa member:
In the event that any Market Loan you wish to cash out using the Rapid Return  
Facility is at a lower  interest rate than any other Lenders Market Offer, you will incur
a charge, payable  to the incoming Lender, equivalent to the shortfall in interest that
the incoming Lender would otherwise  have  received  on that Loan Contract at the
incoming Lenders Market Offer rate.
Therefore, Im also satisfied Zopa made Mr C and Mrs K aware that accessing  money
already invested  wasnt  guaranteed and that if they were able to sell before the loans
matures, a market rate adjustment fee could apply in addition  to the 1% selling fee they were
aware of.
With regards to the Core  account not having  the benefit of the safeguard  fund, I cant  see
any mention of this in the screenshots provided. Mr C and Mrs K were  already members of
Zopa when  they opened their Core accounts and were aware of the Safeguard fund
previously applying. So I understand why they may have thought it would  apply to the Core
account also. But ultimately, there was no mention of the Safeguard fund in the key features
because it didnt apply.  Whilst I think it would have been helpful for Zopa to say the Core
account didnt  benefit from the Safeguard fund, I dont think it misled  Mr C and Mrs K. I also
understand that Zopa had previously  communicated the retirement of the Safeguard fund to
its members  including messages  being  displayed when members access  their accounts
and through blog posts on its website. If having  the benefit of the Safeguard  fund was a
significant consideration in their decision to invest through the Core account,  then, as there
was no mention of this in the key features, I think they ought  to have questioned this with 
Zopa before proceeding.
Considering the above, Im persuaded Zopa provided Mr C and Mrs K with fair, clear  and not
misleading information regarding their Core  accounts.
Should Zopa  have  allowed Mr C and Mrs K to cancel their investments and withdraw  their 
funds without paying any fees?
Mr C and Mrs K requested to cancel  their investments shortly after opening their Core
accounts but Zopa said they had waived  their right to cancel.
Ref: DRN60776985The FCA published a consultation paper in October  2013 regarding the regulatory approach
to crowdfunding  (and similar activities).  Included in this was a section on cancellation rights.
It explains:
The Distance Marketing  Directive (DMD) requires that most financial services
contracts made at a distance  (that is, without the simultaneous physical presence of
the supplier or intermediary and the customer)  give customers  the right to
cancellation, without  penalty and without  giving a reason. Where this applies,
customers generally have  the right to withdraw their money within  the first 14
calendar days. The DMD does not allow consumers to waive  this right.
However, it goes on to explain that exceptions do exist,  such  as:
There is no right to cancel distance  contracts  for investments whose price depends
on fluctuations  in the financial  market  outside the firms control. Therefore, where
platforms include a secondary market and investors are able to sell their interest in a
loan at prevailing market prices, there  is no automatic  right to cancel the contract.
So essentially, the DMD  creates a 14-day cancellation rights  for consumers investing on
platforms that offer no secondary market. But where there is a secondary market,
consumers wishing to access  their capital early  can do so via this option  and so theyre not
afforded the same cancelation  rights.
In Mr C and Mrs Ks case, Zopa offered a secondary market at the time they opened their 
Core accounts and so the 14-day cancellation  period didnt  apply. This is confirmed  in
Zopas principles, which explains:
Once the loan agreement has been  formed you wont be able to change its terms or
withdraw from it. You accept that this is so even if you had intended to cancel your
investment but failed  to do so or your message to us to cancel was not received and
processed by us before your funds  were matched and the resulting loan agreement
formed.
Zopa has confirmed that Mr C was first matched to a loan on 6 April 2018  and Mrs K on 30
March 2018 in their respective Core accounts. Zopa has also confirmed Mrs K was first
matched to a loan on 6 April 2018 in her ISA Core account. Whilst I appreciate  Mr C and Mrs
K requested to cancel shortly after this on 16 April 2018, Im satisfied  they only way they
were able to exit was by way of selling on the secondary market. And in doing  so, they had
to incur the 1% selling fee or any applicable market rate adjustment fee.
responses to my provisional  decision  
Zopa didnt  respond  to my provisional decision.  Mr C and Mrs K did. They didnt agree with 
my findings.  In summary they said Zopa didnt provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information about their Core accounts.  In particular,  they said Zopa should have made it 
clear that the 1% fee would  need to be paid in order to access  their invested funds, if they 
re-invest their monthly repayments. And this makes  the annualised projected return  mis-
leading as it doesnt factor in the 1% fee.
Ref: DRN60776986my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  raised any substantive 
issues around my provisional conclusions,  so I see no reason to depart from them. 
In relation to Mr C and Mrs Ks comments around the 1% fee. I understand they previously 
raised concerns  regarding  the need to re-invest monthly repayments in order achieve the 
annualised projected return. And so I appreciate why they feel they would always need  to 
pay the 1% fee in order to access their funds. However, Mr C and Mrs K did have the option  
to access their funds without paying the 1% fee. They could  do this by electing not to have 
their monthly repayments re-invested and instead  withdraw their monthly  repayments  over 
the full length of the loan terms.  This was all explained on Zopas website. Whilst its 
possible that taking  such action might result  in an investor receiving less than the annualised 
projected return, ultimately,  this rate was never guaranteed. 
I also dont think Zopa  needed  to include  the 1% fee in its explanation around how the 
annualised rate is projected, as Ive explained,  it only applies to investors who want  to sell 
their loans early. Zopa made it clear when  the 1% fee would apply and so Mr C and Mrs K 
ought to have known when and how it would apply to their annualised rate. 
So for these reasons and those in my provisional decision, Im persuaded Zopa provided Mr 
C and Mrs K with fair, clear and not misleading  information about their Core  account and it 
was fair to charge them a fee for selling their loans early. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr C and Mrs Ks complaint against Zopa Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2021.
Ben Waites
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6077698