K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
When arranging their joint mortgage in 1999,  Mr and Mrs T took out PPI during  a meeting at 
a Halifax branch. The policy covered Mr T and it protected the monthly  mortgage  
repayments in the event  that he couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion. Their main  complaint  is that they didnt need PPI as they had other means to pay 
the mortgage if they werent working.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Heres  why I say this.
Although PPI was taken  out just for Mr T, as this was a joint mortgage with Mrs T, Ive 
looked at both their circumstances  at the time. 
While they were in the process of arranging their mortgage Mr T also completed  a separate  
PPI application.  On this form, he put his name down as the person to be insured and Mr T 
signed the completed form to get the policy. So I can see why the insurance was just in 
Mr Ts name  and this appears  to reflect the wishes of Mr and Mrs T at the time.
On balance, I find that Mr and Mrs T wouldve known it was up to them to say if they wanted 
the PPI and it was added on to their mortgage account when they chose to take it out for 
Mr T.
Halifax says it recommended PPI and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable. 
Mr T was eligible  for the policy given  his circumstances and the terms and conditions that 
applied. 
Mr T was covered for disability and unemployment.  Ive taken into account  that Mr T had 
some sick pay. But if he made  a successful accident  or sickness claim the policy  couldve 
paid out for longer than he couldve depended  on getting sick pay from his employer - up to 
24 months per claim. And the monthly benefit wouldve been paid on top of any sick pay 
received through work. This couldve been useful  particularly if he had extra  costs  as a 
result of illness or disability.  
PPI also protected  Mr T for up to 24 months per claim  in the event he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ref: DRN69983512Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs T had a five figure amount of savings. But it looks  
like they preferred not to spend  this, or they had other plans for that money, since  they took 
out this mortgage rather  than invest all their savings  in buying their house. Having PPI meant 
Mr and Mrs T could  depend on being  able to continue to keep their savings intact  to spend 
on other things or to provide  them  with financial security. And there was no guarantee when  
Mr and Mrs T took out this mortgage that they would always  have savings to rely on. The 
policy provided long term protection as Mr T couldve made repeated  claims on it. 
Their mortgage  was a long term financial commitment and their home couldve been at risk if 
Mr and Mrs T found themselves unexpectedly  unable to keep up the monthly mortgage 
repayments. So I think PPI couldve been a useful  benefit in what  wouldve been  difficult 
circumstances for Mr and Mrs T.  
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs T could also keep  their other  investments secure in the long 
term as they wouldnt  have been  forced to use these to pay the mortgage.
The mortgage was taken out over a 16 year term when Mr and Mrs T were  both in work. 
I think its likely that losing  Mr Ts income  wouldve had a substantial impact on their joint 
financial circumstances in the long term  PPI protected them against that risk. So, overall, 
I think that Halifaxs recommendation was suitable.  
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But it doesnt look as if Mr T wouldve  been affected by any of the 
things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think its likely that having  more information about  
the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put them off the PPI. 
I dont know what information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about the monthly  policy cost. But 
they chose to take out cover when  they didnt have  to. So they seem to have  been  happy to 
pay for it at the time. And as they chose  to buy some extra  benefit  to protect mortgage 
related costs, as well as the mortgage  monthly repayments, it doesnt  look as if paying  for 
the cover  was a problem  for them. As Mr and Mrs T paid for the policy each month,  they 
couldve cancelled it at any time without losing out financially if they no longer wanted  to pay 
for it. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs T still wouldve decided to buy the policy  for Mr T even if theyd  been  
better informed as the PPI gave them useful protection in their particular  situation.  
So I dont  find they have lost out as a result  of anything  that Halifax mightve  done  wrong.  
This means  there isnt anything Halifax needs to do to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive taken carefully  into account everything Mr and Mrs T said in 
response to the adjudicators view. But, for the reasons Ive set out above,  this doesnt affect 
my decision  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. And whilst I appreciate that they will be 
disappointed in my decision, I hope that setting things  out as Ive done will help explain how 
Ive come to my final decision.
Ref: DRN69983513my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6998351