K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) imposed unfair 
charges for damage to the car he returned  at the end of his hire purchase agreement.
Background
In February 2016  acquired a car funded  by a hire purchase agreement with VFS. In the 
summer of 2018 Mr S voluntarily terminated the agreement and the car was inspected on 
9 August and collected on 16 August.
The car was inspected and the damaged  areas  which the inspector considered  went beyond 
fair wear and tear were  photographed. VFS charged  Mr S £459.22 plus VAT for the 
following:
Rear Bumper Broken.
Right hand rear door scratch  and
Right Hand front door sill dent.
Mr S complained and VFS reviewed the report and agreed to waive £55.20  as the rear door 
scratch wasnt as serious first thought. Mr S didnt think the marks went beyond fair wear 
and tear. He also said he hadnt been told when he bought  the car that it would be subjected  
to a very critical inspection. As VFS refused to forgo  the remaining  charge Mr S brought his 
complaint to this service.
It was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said the 
car had been  inspected  using the British Vehicle Leasing and Rental Association (BVRLA)  
guidelines. He went on to explain this is a trade body for leasing and rental companies which 
sets out best practices and is used to assess damage charges for rented or leased vehicles. 
He reviewed each  area of damage  and concluded that they fell outside of fair wear and tear.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for clarification of a number matters  and reiterated  his point that 
he hadnt been told about the possibility of having to pay for damages.  The adjudicator said 
the contract  allowed VFS to inspect the car and he wouldnt expect the salesman to mention 
every aspect of the contract.
Mr S asked the matter  be referred to an ombudsman. He likened the finance  system to the 
PPI scandal and while he understood an inspection reasonable he didnt think it fair that he 
wasnt able to see the BVRLA  guidelines.  He felt the judgement as to what constituted  fair 
wear and tear should be based on what a reasonable man would  decide.  He felt the rules  
were one sided.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S entered into a contract whereby he hired a car and decided to terminate the contract. 
The contract he signed said: 
You will be responsible for any damage  to or deterioration of the Vehicle which  is in excess 
of fair wear  and tear commensurate with the age and mileage of the Vehicle.
Ref: DRN69486282That is normal and is based on the premise that any damage beyond  fair wear and tear is 
likely to diminish the value of the car. In this case there were three areas of damage and 
having reviewed  the photographs I consider  they went  beyond fair wear and tear. That is 
based on the standard BVRLA  guidelines,  but to be honest even if I were  to apply the 
reasonable man test suggested by Mr S my opinion remains  the same.
I understand Mr Ss concern that the BVRLA is an industry body, but it sets out clear 
standards as to what constitutes unacceptable damage. It means  that each company 
adhering to it operates to the same standard. Quite simply the car was damaged and VFS 
was entitled to make a charge for the costs of repairs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6948628