K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Q are unhappy about  the way in which Metro Bank PLC dealt with their 
application for a buy-to-let  (BTL) mortgage.  They say that they have incurred Stamp  Duty 
Land Tax (SDLT) of £11,375 because Metro refused to allow a joint  borrower,  sole 
proprietor (JBSP) mortgage. They want Metro to reimburse  this amount.
The complaint has been submitted on behalf  of Mr and Mrs Q by their mortgage  broker. For 
simplicity, I will refer to Mr and Mrs Q throughout.
background
The events can be summarised briefly. In 2018 Mr and Mrs Q wanted  to raise £100,000 to 
build an extension on their family  home. In order to fund this, they decided to remortgage a 
BTL property owned in the sole name  of Mr Q. A decision in principle was issued by Metro in 
October 2018, but on considering the application,  it didnt meet Metros affordability criteria.
There were discussions between Mr Qs mortgage broker and Metro, when it was 
established that the best way to proceed was to add Mrs Q to the title, which  would allow 
Metro to take her income into account.  Mr and Mrs Q decided  to proceed on that basis. A 
mortgage offer in joint names was issued  on 11 February 2019.
But after discussing  the situation with their solicitors,  Mr and Mrs Q discovered  that, by 
putting Mrs Q on the property title, a liability  for SDLT of £11,375 would be incurred.
Mr Qs mortgage broker reviewed Metros  lending criteria and noted that Metro offered  JBSP  
mortgages  which meant  that the mortgage  would be in the joint names  of Mr and Mrs Q, 
but the property  would be in the sole name of Mr Q.  The broker approached Metro  about a 
JBSP mortgage on 28 February 2019. 
Metro said that it would not consent  to this, as it was an attempt to avoid paying SDLT. After  
further discussions, Metro clarified that the JBSP mortgage was aimed  at helping first-time 
buyers, where a parent would  be a joint mortgagor but the property would be in the son or 
daughters sole name  and that it wasnt a product  that was available for BTL borrowers. 
In addition, Metro  said a JBSP mortgage was not available for capital  raising, unless it was 
for the benefit  of all borrowers. Metro didnt  consider  that to be the case here  because Mrs 
Q would be taking on a mortgage of almost  £1 million where only £100,000 was for her 
benefit.
The broker  said that this restriction didnt appear  on Metros website. The broker  also 
queried what risk there would be to Metro in offering a JBSP mortgage to Mr and Mrs Q.
Mr and Mrs Q complained  to Metro, but the bank would not change  its position. 
With a date for the builders to begin  work  on the extension  already  agreed,  Mr and Mrs Q 
went ahead  with putting the property  into joint names, incurring a SDLT  liability  of £11,375. 
Mr and Mrs Q had to increase their mortgage borrowing to cover  this. A fresh mortgage offer 
was issued on 8 March 2019. The total mortgage  borrowing  was £966,000, of which 
£100,000 was for home improvements on Mr and Mrs Qs residence. 
Ref: DRN63876162Mr and Mrs Q brought their complaint to us. They  want Metro to refund  £11,375  back  to the 
mortgage account.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
Metro had acted  fairly  and reasonably.
Mr and Mrs Q disagreed  with the investigators findings. They say that they consider the 
SDLT liability was incurred because Metro unfairly  refused to allow the JBSP mortgage. 
They have asked  to see Metros full, hidden lending criteria and be provided  with transcripts 
of all telephone  calls or call recordings.  If the investigator was unable to comply, Mr and 
Mrs Q wanted the matter referred  to an ombudsman.
As Mr and Mrs Qs demands were not met, the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ill begin by explaining what the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is and my remit as an ombudsman.  
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked 
and answered. So although Ive noted Mr and Mrs Qs demands for information, its up to me 
to determine what information I require in order to determine this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Q believe  Metro  has treated them  unfairly. Their submissions 
highlight all the issues they are unhappy  about. But this complaint is simpler than its been 
presented: the issue is about the exercise  by Metro of its commercial judgment when 
deciding the terms  on which  to offer a mortgage  to Mr and Mrs Q. 
Where a complaint  is about the exercise  by a lender  of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether  that judgement has been  exercised fairly and reasonably;  it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of Metro. In other words, I have to decide if Metro  took into 
account all relevant factors and gave proper  consideration to them before reaching its 
decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably  have made the decisions Metro 
made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my part.
Metro is entitled  to set its own lending criteria and to decide what products  to offer to both 
residential and BTL customers. Decisions that Metro  makes  in respect of what  those  criteria  
are, its attitude to risk, and whether it should lend and if so, on what  terms are clearly 
discretionary matters for Metros own commercial judgement  that I would not interfere with. 
Initially the application did not meet Metros affordability criteria,  so the decision was taken 
by Mr and Mrs Q to put the property  into joint names and proceed on that basis.  I appreciate  
that it was a shock for them  to learn that they would incur a SDLT liability  of over £11,000 for 
doing so. Thats not something for which Metro  is responsible though.
I understand why Mr and Mrs Q wanted  to explore other options to see if they could proceed 
without this additional expense. I understand their broker advised  them  that a JBSP 
mortgage would be a way forward and this was put to Metro. 
Ref: DRN63876163Mr and Mrs Qs broker says that Metros lending criteria does not say that JBSP mortgages 
are not available to BTL borrowers, and so the assumption must be drawn that this type of 
mortgage was available  for Mr and Mrs Q.  The argument put forward is that the only reason 
the JBSP mortgage request was declined is because Metro thought it was being done  for tax 
avoidance reasons.  This has caused offence to Mr and Mrs Q. 
Mr and Mrs Q also believe  Metro has applied hidden lending criteria  when deciding not to 
offer them a JBSP mortgage.
But I disagree with this. Ive looked at Metros intermediary portal.  On this portal, which  is 
accessed by mortgage brokers, there is a section for residential mortgage borrowing. This 
says (and the highlighted part is my emphasis):
Residential mortgages, including remortgaging
Why Metro Bank Mortgages?
Personal service  one single point  of contact through  your mortgage process
Individual case underwriting so we can take account of a Customers  personal 
circumstances
A choice  of two fee assisted re-mortgage  options  up to a maximum property  
value of £2 million
Interest only available  up to 75% loan to value with a credible and provable 
repayment strategy in place from the outset
Joint borrower  / sole proprietor  joint incomes considered but only one 
party named  on the title deeds
Second homes up to 85% LTV
20% annual  overpayment (Residential Mortgages)
Contract Workers from all industries accepted
Unencumbered properties accepted
 
It is clear from this that a JBSP mortgage  is available for residential mortgage  customers.
There also is a separate  section of the intermediary  portal for BTL borrowers, which  I have 
looked at closely.  This says:
Buy-to-let mortgages, including remortgaging
Why Metro Bank for Buy to Let Mortgages?
Personal service  one single point  of contact through  your mortgage process
Individual case underwriting so we can take account of a Customers  personal 
circumstances
For new lending the rental cover  required  for the property  is 140% of the 
mortgage interest amount calculated at a stress  rate of 5.50%. The 
assessment of existing  lending  to Portfolio Landlords will be calculated at 
5.50%. Earned  income may be considered,  conditions apply
Not available  for Limited  Company  Buy to Let 
Ref: DRN63876164A choice  of two fee assisted re-mortgage  options - up to a maximum property 
value of £2 million
There is nothing in this section referring  to JBSP mortgages.
There is also a link on the BTL section of the intermediary portal to a .pdf document  detailing 
all Metros BTL mortgage products.  There is no mention in that document  of JBSP 
mortgages for BTL borrowers. 
After looking at all the information available to mortgage intermediaries through Metros 
portal, Im satisfied there  is nothing in the BTL section of the portal that says  or even 
suggests - that JBSP mortgages are available for BTL customers. The only reference to 
them is in relation to residential  mortgages. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that a JBSP  
mortgage was a product that was from the outset never  available  for Mr and Mrs Q, as BTL 
customers. 
Arguments have been put forward about  whether  or not Metro declined  the JBSP request 
because it was unhappy about tax avoidance, or whether the mortgage was not to Mrs Qs 
advantage given that she would only benefit from about 10% of the amount borrowed. But 
Im satisfied these arguments now fall away   because Mr and Mrs Q, as BTL borrowers, 
were not  and never would have been  eligible for a JBSP mortgage in any event.
As the information  on Metros intermediary portal is quite  clear on this, Im not sure why 
Mr and Mrs Qs broker advised them that this type of mortgage would be suitable  for their 
needs. Thats something theyll need to take up with the broker. Its not something we can 
consider though, as complaints against  brokers about advice to take out commercial 
mortgages (including BTL products) are not covered under our rules.
Given this was not a straightforward application,  I dont think the timescale  involved was 
unreasonable. There was detailed consideration of Mr Qs income  before  the sole 
application was declined. It then became necessary for there  to be a joint application taking 
Mrs Qs income  into account. Metro gave detailed consideration to the applications.
Mr Q didnt meet Metros lending criteria for a sole application, but jointly  Mr and Mrs Q were  
eligible for the loan and it was up to them to decide if they wanted to proceed on that basis. 
This was a commercial transaction  and Metro was under  no duty to give Mr and Mrs Q 
advice about SDLT or any other  aspect of the conveyancing. Indeed, Mr and Mrs Q had their 
own solicitors  to do this. 
Mr and Mrs Qs decision to transfer  the property from Mr Qs sole name into their joint 
names has resulted  in a SDLT liability which Mr and Mrs Q are, understandably, unhappy  
about. But the liability for SDLT arises from Government legislation  and not from anything  
Metro has, or has not, done in relation  to the mortgage application.  Consequently,  I can find 
no basis upon which I can hold Metro responsible for this..
It wasnt until 28 February 2019  that the broker suggested to Metro that a JBSP mortgage 
would be a better option. I think Metro should at that point have explained that this type of 
mortgage wasnt available to BTL customers,  but I dont think  this has impacted on the 
overall length of time the application took. 
I say this because  the joint mortgage  offer had already been issued by that point, and I note 
that on 8 March 2019 the revised  mortgage offer (increasing the borrowing to cover the 
Ref: DRN63876165SDLT expense) was issued. Overall  I find the timescale taken by Metro  to consider the 
applications was reasonable.
In all the circumstances, I find Metro has fairly and legitimately exercised  its commercial 
judgment when  deciding the terms upon  which it would lend to Mr and Mrs Q and that the 
time it took to reach its decision was reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This final decision brings to an end our consideration  of this complaint. This means  that we 
will not be entering into any further discussion about  the merits of the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6387616