K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Amigo Loans Ltd (AL)  engaged in irresponsible lending to him.
background
Mr A says he had three loans from AL and hes complaining about the last one. He says he 
doesnt believe it did enough checks before making this loan as his finances at the time were  
bad, due to him having to repay too many  other  loans each month.
So, Mr A says he wants AL to refund the interest hes paid on the loan.
AL says it made a loan of £750 to Mr A in 2014,  it made a further loan of £5,000 to him in 
June 2016 and this was topped up to £6,000 in November 2016. It says hes repaid each of 
his loans early. And it says in each case,  having received Mr As application, it ran a series  
of checks to confirm his suitability to take out the loan.
AL also says it checked Mr As credit file to ensure he wasnt  bankrupt  or on an IVA. It says it 
went through an income and expenditure assessment with him and compared his 
expenditure figures to national averages  to ensure they were realistic.  And it says it reviewed  
his credit file to ensure it budgeted for any other creditors.
In addition, AL says as both of Mr As first two loans  were  well maintained,  with all payments 
being made in full and on time, he became eligible to apply for a top up loan. It says he 
applied for a top up loan of £6,000 in November 2016. It says it was again  able to verify his 
income and outgoings and confirm  the loan was fully affordable for him. And it says this loan 
was perfectly maintained  for over a year until it was settled early. 
Our investigator thought Mr As complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  He said he still doesnt believe enough 
checks were carried  out by AL as he was constantly  using payday  loans. And he said his 
statements show his disposable income  wouldnt have enabled him to repay  the loan.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
I note Mr As complaint  is mainly about  the third loan AL made to him, in November 2016,  
when it topped up the £5,000 loan hed received  a few months earlier  to £6,000.  So, my 
decision concentrates  on that matter.
I see when Mr A applied for the loan, AL cross referenced  the information  he gave it about 
his income and expenditure with his credit report to verify that the details  hed given it were  
correct. I see at the time Mr As declared income was £1,750 per month and his expenditure 
just under £1,400, leaving  him with a disposable income of just over £350. And I see the 
loan repayments  were around  £237 per month.
Ref: DRN69235982I also see ALs told us whilst Mr A had previously had payday loans, these had all been 
repaid, as expected. And its told us if there  were  any active  payday loans, these were taken 
into account appropriately.  
Theres no specific list of checks a lender must carry out before deciding to make a loan. But 
the checks do need to be proportionate to the circumstances, including the amount of the 
loan. The information Ive seen indicates the checks AL carried  out before each of the loans 
it made to Mr A, were  proportionate to the amount involved and that they were appropriate in 
the circumstances. 
In particular, I think it was reasonable for AL to rely on Mr As declared income and 
expenditure, as verified by his credit  report. I also think it was entitled  to take into account his 
successful track record of making  repayments to it when agreeing to lend him £5,000 in 
June 2016 and agreeing  to top that loan up to £6,000 in November 2016.
I acknowledge Mr A says his bank statements wouldve  shown the top up loan wasnt 
affordable to him in view of his other loan commitments.  But I dont think  it was necessary for 
AL to consider these, in light of the other information it had obtained.  I also think  ALs 
conclusion that the loan was affordable  to Mr A was reasonable  in light of this information.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr As complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  Amigo Loans Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6923598