K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the amount that hes been charged by LeasePlan UK Limited  for 
damage to a car that he returned  at the end of his hire agreement.  His wife is also involved 
in his complaint.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr M under a hire agreement with LeasePlan that he signed  in 
March 2016. The car was collected from him in March 2019 when the agreement ended  and 
was inspected on behalf of LeasePlan. The inspection report  identified  damage to the car, 
which was shown on photos in the report,  with a repair cost of £456  and Mr M was charged  
for that damage.  He complained to LeasePlan and it agreed to remove  the £20 charge for a 
scratch on the offside  rear door.  Mr M wasnt satisfied  with its response so complained  to 
this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that the 
damage for which LeasePlan was charging  Mr M fell outside  what  would be considered  to be 
fair wear and tear and she couldnt  say that it was unfair for it to apply the charges.
Mr Ms wife  on his behalf  - has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. She says, in summary, that they accept the charges for the damage to the 
front bumper and nearside front door but the photos  in the report  exaggerate the damage to 
the offside wing and rear bumper which could  be removed by mechanical polishing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M signed the hire agreement in March 2016 and agreed that:
If, when this agreement  ends, the vehicle  is for any reason returned in a condition 
not consistent with the performance  of your obligations (fair wear and tear as defined 
by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association excepted),  we shall be entitled 
to reclaim from you a sum equivalent  to the actual or estimated cost of repairs.
The car was collected from him in March 2019  when the agreement  ended and an inspection  
report was prepared which identified damage  to the car and included photos of the damage. 
The cars mileage when it was collected from Mr M was 24,884. Mr M was charged  £456 for 
the damage but LeasePlan  agreed to remove the £20 charge for a scratch on the offside 
rear door.  
LeasePlan is charging Mr M for scratches  to the primer on the front bumper (£100), the 
nearside front door (£93), the offside wing (£93) and the rear bumper (£150).  I consider  that 
the photos in the report clearly show the damage  to the car and that the damage is more  
than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance  with the British  
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  guidelines on fair wear and tear. I dont consider 
that the damage to the offside wing and rear bumper would be removed by mechanical 
polishing.
Ref: DRN62773372Mr M had agreed in the hire agreement to pay the estimated cost of repairs and I dont 
consider that there was any requirement  for LeasePlan to provide an invoice showing that 
the repairs have  been carried out or to provide  details of the price  for which  it sold the car.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that LeasePlan has acted 
incorrectly in connection with these charges. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require it to further  reduce (or waive) those charges  or to 
take any other action  in response to Mr Ms complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6277337