K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Ms F says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Ms Fs signed  credit  agreement. On it there  is a section related to 
PPI and the box opting for the policy has a printed cross in it. As this policy was sold in a 
face-to-face meeting  I think its likely this selection came  about as a result of a 
conversation between Halifax and Ms F, where  PPI was discussed.  Ms F has signed the 
form so I think  its likely to reflect what she wanted. And theres nothing on the form to 
suggest the PPI was compulsory. So on balance I think its likely Halifax  made it clear 
that Ms F didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms F so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Ms F says she wouldve received some sick pay at the time of sale. She also says she 
had medical insurance and a work  pension  scheme in place at the time but hasnt given  
us much detail about these. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any employee 
benefits or other means she had  and for up to 12 months if she was unable to work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  So I think she wouldve found the policy 
useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms F about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund everything  Ms F paid for it. But I understand Halifax  has 
offered to give Ms F back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything 
more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms F now Ive issued my final decision  if it has not 
already done so. 
Ref: DRN64954952my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6495495