K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that it was irresponsible for Capital One (Europe) plc to have increased  the 
credit limit on his credit  card account and to have opened a new account for him.
background
Mr C has had a credit card account  with Capital One since  December 2011. The credit limit 
on the account was £500 until it was increased  to £750 in January 2016.  Mr C successfully 
applied for another credit  card account with Capital  One in May 2016 with a credit limit of 
£200. He complained to Capital One in December 2018 that the increase in credit was 
unaffordable for him but he wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He didnt think  that 
Capital One had done anything wrong so he said that he was unable to ask it to refund  any 
interest and charges to Mr C.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that:
the account started in April 2013  with a limit of £500 which  he quickly used up and in 
the 32 months until January 2016 - when his credit limit was increased  - he paid only 
the minimum payment  in 30 months  (and he cleared the balance  in full in July 2013  
and February 2015);
in late 2013  he was in severe financial crisis with multiple short term loans and he 
started a debt management  plan in early 2014  and his lenders registered arrears  and 
defaults on his credit file in 2014;
Capital One increased his credit limit from £500  to £750 in early 2016 despite  his 
defaults with other  lenders and the payment history on his account;
four months later it opened  a second account with a £200 credit  limit; and
he cant see that the credit limit increase and the additional account were responsible 
lending and they werent affordable for him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C successfully applied to Capital  One for a credit card account in December 2011 and an 
account was opened for him with a credit limit of £500. His spending on the card reached his 
credit limit within a few months but he made at least the minimum payment required each 
month (and he says that in July 2013 and February  2013 he cleared the balance  on his 
account). 
Mr C says that he experienced financial  difficulties  in late 2013 so he entered into a debt 
management plan and defaults were  recorded  on his credit  file. But in December 2015 he 
was offered an increase to his credit  limit. Capital One says that before the increase  was 
offered to Mr C it checked his credit file and no recent  defaults  had been recorded and there 
werent any missed payments with any of his other financial agreements in the past twelve  
months. And it says that it could see that there  werent any missed payments on the account 
in the past ten months.
Ref: DRN68853622A credit provider should make proportionate checks about the affordability of any credit 
before it makes that credit  available to a customer.  What is proportionate will depend  on the 
circumstances of the credit. I consider that it was proportionate for Capital One to review 
Mr Cs account history  and to check his credit  file before offering to increase his credit limit. 
And on the basis of those  proportionate checks,  I consider that it was reasonable for it to 
conclude that as £250 increase in his credit limit was affordable for him.
Capital One also gave Mr C the opportunity to opt out of the increased limit when it was 
offered to him  but he didnt do so. I consider that it was reasonable for Capital One to 
conclude that Mr C wanted the increased credit limit  and I can see that he soon used  the 
additional credit  that had been made available to him.
Mr C applied to Capital  One for an additional  credit card account in May 2016. As part of the 
application he said that his annual income was £27,000. Capital One says that it checked his 
credit file and his payment history on his other account with it. And it says that there no 
indications from his application that a second credit card account with a credit limit of £200 
was unaffordable for him. I consider that Capital One made  proportionate checks before 
opening that account and that it was reasonable for it to conclude,  on the basis  of those 
proportionate checks, that he could afford a credit card account with a credit limit of £200  
from his declared annual income  of £27,000. 
So Im not persuaded that it was irresponsible for Capital One to have made  the additional 
credit available to Mr C or that it was unaffordable for him at that time. Capital One says that 
Mr C started to miss payments on his accounts  from August 2018 and that it agreed short  
term payment arrangements with him in October  2018 which  were free of fees and interest.
I sympathise with Mr C for the financial difficulties that hes experienced. But I consider that 
Capital One has responded to them positively and sympathetically  as its required to do. 
And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Capital One to refund to Mr C any of the interest  and charges that have been applied  to his 
credit card accounts  or to take any other  action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6885362