K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) mishandled his claim for 
breakdown assistance while outside  of the UK.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August  2019,  which  sets out the 
background to Mr Ws dispute and forms part of this final decision. In my provisional 
decision, I said I was minded  to uphold Mr Ws complaint as I thought  IPA ought to have 
repatriated his vehicle  in line with the policy terms and conditions,  given  that it was 
uneconomical to repair.  As a result, I said I intended asking IPA to:
Pay the difference between what it wouldve cost Mr W to have his vehicle repaired in 
the UK (£3,361),  and the amount he actually paid to the French garage (£8238.83). 
Reimburse any outstanding expenses incurred by Mr W in line with the policy  terms 
and conditions.
Pay a total of £350 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (less the £100 
already offered if paid already).
I invited further comments  from both parties.  Mr W accepted my proposals  and explained 
that, in terms of his outstanding expenses, he had incurred approximately  £907  in costs but 
that IPA had only been reimbursed £558.72  of this so far.
IPA did not provide any further comments in relation to the proposals set out in my 
provisional decision, but said the following about Mr Ws expenses:
The list submitted  by Mr W was a mix of expenses  incurred  in euros and pounds  
sterling, so the total figure of 907 is a mixture of currencies. The totals were €491.90 
and £416.41.  So using the 1.1299 exchange  rate they used  at the time, the amount  
in euros  equates to £435.31, leaving a total of £851.72 claimed by Mr W.
IPA explained  that one of Mr Ws claimed expenses  (Eurotunnel hire car home)  had 
mistakenly been paid as £23.86  instead of the £231.86 the amount converted to in 
pounds sterling. They  acknowledge  that they had therefore underpaid Mr W by £208, 
which they said they will reimburse.
This brings the total reimbursed to £766.72  (including the £558.72 already paid). 
However, IPA declined to pay the remaining £85 of the £851.72 total, as they say this 
was spent on petrol for the hire car, which is not covered by the policy.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Given that neither  party  has objected to the findings made in my provisional decision,  I see 
no reason to depart from the reasoning or proposals set out previously. However, I will set 
out my findings in further detail in relation  to the outstanding expenses,  in light of the further 
evidence that has been submitted. 
Having seen the expenses form submitted by Mr W, I accept  that it is a mix of currencies 
and doesnt equate to £907, and I accept  that the total costs  he incurred would amount to 
£851.72 according to the exchange rate used at the time. 
Ref: DRN60912422IPA say they will not reimburse  the £85 outstanding because it was spent on petrol  for the 
hire car Mr W used  to drive back to the UK, which would  not be covered by the policy. I 
appreciate that such costs  may not be covered by the policy.  But in my provisional decision,  
I said that IPA ought to have repatriated Mr W and his vehicle in the first place. If they had 
done so, he wouldnt  have incurred any additional  costs in petrol for a hire car. So although it 
may not be covered by the policy, I will still be directing IPA to pay this amount because  it is 
a reasonably foreseeable loss that has resulted from their breach of the insurance contract 
when they failed to repatriate Mr W and his vehicle. 
So, including the £208 Mr W was initially underpaid, IPA should  reimburse  a total of £293 in 
outstanding expenses, plus 8% simple interest  from the date Mr W paid these costs  until the 
date of settlement.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Inter Partner  Assistance  SA 
to:
Pay the difference between what it wouldve cost Mr W to have his vehicle repaired in 
the UK (£3,361),  and the amount he actually paid to the French garage (£8238.83). 
IPA should also add 8% simple interest  per year from the date Mr W paid these costs 
until the date of settlement (less  any tax properly deductible).
Reimburse the £293 in outstanding expenses incurred by Mr W. IPA should also pay 
8% simple interest  per year from the date Mr W paid these costs until the date of 
settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
Pay £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience  (less the £100  offered if 
already paid)   to be paid within 28 days of Mr Ws acceptance of my decision being 
received by IPA, failing  which  interest will start to accrue at the simple rate of 8% per 
year until settlement (less any tax properly deductible).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60912423COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr W complains  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) mishandled his claim for breakdown 
assistance while outside of the UK.
background
Mr W holds  a European breakdown assistance policy with IPA, upon  which he made a claim  for 
assistance when his motorhome broke down on 31 October 2017 while he was in France with his 
wife. His vehicle was taken to a local garage where  he was told that it would need a new engine that 
would cost him between €5,000 and €10,000, and which  would take around one month to repair. 
Mr W says he didnt have the money to pay for the repairs quoted by the French  garage,  and so 
wanted his vehicle to be repatriated to the UK, where he had been quoted much lower prices  of 
around £2,000 to £4,000 for a replacement  engine. But IPA said they would  not cover the costs of 
repatriation as the repairs could be completed in France before he planned on returning home. As a 
result, they offered £419 (the remainder  of Mr Ws policy  limit after hotel/taxi  costs expended as a 
result of the breakdown) towards  the cost of arranging  a private repatriation, or so that Mr W could  
hire another vehicle to return home. 
Mr W said he had no choice but to have his vehicle repaired in France, for which he had to loan 
money from his family to cover the costs.  He accepted IPAs offer of a hire car in order to return home  
on 4 November  2017,  as he was unable to get the passenger ferry as they would not allow him to 
travel with his dog. But he was not able to drop the car off in the UK, so he had to return  to France  the 
following day to return the hire car, and then take the passenger ferry back to the UK on his own.  Mr 
W then had to return to France again a few weeks later on 18 November 2017  to collect his vehicle 
after it had been repaired.
Mr W complained as he believes that IPA ought to have repatriated his vehicle  so he could have  it 
repaired at a cheaper rate in the UK, and because it also would have saved him from going back  and 
forth to France a number of times. Mr W also complained about the standard of service he received 
from IPA, which includes (but is not strictly limited to):
Having to make numerous  calls to IPA as they repeatedly failed to return calls as promised.
He wasnt provided with any continuity with a single agent and had to repeat the entire 
circumstances of his claim each time he called.
He was left waiting hours  on one occasion where they told him a taxi was on the way, despite 
no taxi being ordered.
Certain expenses have  still not been paid by IPA despite  invoices being sent.
IPAs failure  to repatriate Mr W and his wife has left them in severe financial  hardship to the 
extent that they had to sell their motorhome  to repay the loan for the repair  bill.
Mr W says that IPAs  mistreatment and handling of his claim has caused him significant stress, which 
resulted in him being hospitalised due to chest  pains.  
IPA said that Mr Ws repatriation  request had been declined correctly under  the policy, but 
acknowledged that their service had, on occasion, fallen  below  an acceptable standard. As a result  
they offered £100 compensation, which was rejected by Mr W who then brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as he considered  that IPA ought to have repatriated Mr Ws 
vehicle, as the repair  quote from the French garage meant  it was uneconomical to repair given that 
IPA had valued it at £3,530. So he recommended they pay for the entire cost of repairs  that Mr W had 
been billed for by the French  garage, as well as paying £350 in recognition of the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.  IPA disagreed,  so the complaint  has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN60912424my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently minded to uphold it.
repatriation
In terms of repatriation, the terms  and conditions  of Mr Ws policy  set out that in addition  to providing 
breakdown assistance:
We will also pay for you and the motorhome to be returned  home  if the motorhome  cannot be 
repaired within a reasonable  period or is so badly damaged that it is not economical to repair 
it. 
IPA said that Mr W and his vehicle did not qualify  for repatriation under this section however, as the 
repairs could be completed in France before  he planned on returning  home  in a few months  time.  
Theyve also referred to an exclusionary  term under  the policy,  which sets out that IPA will not cover:
The return of the motorhome to the British Islands if repairs can be completed  locally and you 
are either  unable  or unwilling  to allow this to happen. 
IPA say that Mr Ws concerns regarding  the potential cost of the repair in France  did not necessitate 
the repatriation of his vehicle. But while  I appreciate  the repairs could be completed in France before 
the end of Mr Ws trip, I consider that he did qualify for repatriation under  the policy  terms and 
conditions, as the insurance  promises to repatriate the vehicle if it is not economical  to repair .
I can see from IPAs claim notes from 7 November 2017 that they valued Mr Ws vehicle at £3,530.  
The final bill Mr W paid to the French garage was over €9020.10 which  is far in excess of the 
valuation obtained  by IPA. So, given that they were aware of the vehicles value, I think they ought  
reasonably to have recognised that it was going to be uneconomical to repair when Mr W was 
originally quoted a repair bill of €5,000 to €10,000  which  even at the lower end of the scale would 
still be in excess of the vehicles  value. 
IPA have referred to the exclusionary term that states they are not obliged to repatriate the vehicle if 
repairs can be carried  out locally. But I do not consider this to apply if such repairs  would be 
uneconomical to carry out as originally specified in their repatriation criteria.  So in the circumstances, I 
think IPA ought to have repatriated Mr W and his vehicle.   
Given that there has ultimately been a breach of the insurance contract,  I have to consider what likely 
wouldve happened if Mr Ws vehicle  had been repatriated as it should  have been, when considering 
how IPA ought to put things  right. Our investigator recommended that IPA pay the full cost of the 
repair bill. But Mr W has consistently stated that he would have had the vehicle repaired in the UK if it 
had been repatriated, so I do not consider it would be a fair to ask IPA to cover the entirety of the 
repair costs,  given that Mr W wouldve  always incurred  some cost towards this end.
Mr W paid a total of €9,020.72 (including a €1,000 deposit paid up front) to the French garage.  He has 
provided his bank statements from November  2017 which shows the total amount debited from his 
account was £8,238.83 including non-sterling transaction fees. Mr W has provided a quote he 
obtained from a UK garage on 8 November 2017, which estimated the repair costs at £1,945. But as 
well as having  to replace the engine, the French garage reported on 6 November 2017 that four 
injectors also needed replacing  at a cost of €1,600 (approximately £1416 at the exchange  rate of 1.13 
euros to the pound he received from his bank).
Assuming this additional work was necessary and wouldve also been carried out by the UK garage 
(and I havent seen anything to suggest that it wouldnt) this means  Mr W wouldve only incurred 
repair costs of £3,361 if his vehicle had been repatriated. As a result, I intend asking IPA to pay the 
Ref: DRN60912425difference between what it wouldve cost Mr W to have  his vehicle repaired  in the UK (£3,361), and 
the amount he actually paid to the French garage (£8,238.83), as he would not have incurred these 
extra costs if IPA had repatriated  the vehicle  when they should have.  
compensation
I can see that Mr W has been caused a considerable degree of distress and inconvenience as a result 
of IPA not repatriating him and his vehicle.  Had they have done  so, he wouldnt have had to make 
numerous trips back and forth between  France.  He also says he wouldnt have had to borrow  money 
from his family to pay for the repairs,  which  has caused him financial hardship  and that he has since 
had to sell his motorhome in order to repay. 
I can also see that the level of service provided by IPA has at times fallen below  an acceptable 
standard, such as their failure to follow up phone calls, and keeping Mr W waiting as a result of the 
miscommunication about the taxi pick up. And taking everything into account,  I can see how IPAs 
failure to repatriate his vehicle and their level of service  has caused Mr W a significant amount of 
stress. As a result, I do think  that further compensation is warranted, and I consider the additional  
amount of £250 recommended by the investigator (i.e. £350 in total including the £100 already offered 
by IPA) to be commensurate and fair compensation in the circumstances. So I intend asking them  to 
pay this amount. 
expenses
Mr W has also complained that IPA failed  to reimburse  his expenses despite him sending the relevant 
invoices. He says he received a payment of £558 on 23 January 2018, but with no remarks or 
explanation as to what this payment was covering.  Mr W says he paid out over £900 which IPA said 
they would reimburse, although he hasnt clarified what expenses are still outstanding. If IPA have in 
fact agreed to cover  any particular expenses under the policy, then I will also be asking  them to 
reimburse any outstanding amounts in line with the policy terms and conditions. However,  Mr W will 
need to clarify  what costs he considers to still be outstanding,  and provide reasonable proof of such 
costs being expended. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint and ask Inter Partner Assistance 
SA to:
Pay the difference  between what it wouldve cost Mr W to have his vehicle repaired in the UK 
(£3,361), and the amount he actually paid to the French  garage (£8238.83).  IPA should also 
add 8% simple interest  per year from the date Mr W paid these  costs until the date of 
settlement (less  any tax properly deductible).
Reimburse any outstanding expenses incurred  by Mr W in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. IPA should  also pay 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr W paid these  
costs until the date of settlement (less  any tax properly deductible).
Pay £350  compensation  for distress and inconvenience (less  the £100 offered if already paid)  
 to be paid within 28 days  of Mr Ws acceptance of my decision  being  received by IPA, 
failing which interest will start to accrue at the simple rate of 8% per year until settlement  (less 
any tax properly deductible).  
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6091242