K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly  advised him to set up three separate  pension 
plans over a period of time. He thinks he may have  been disadvantaged as a result. 
background
Our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. They set out the circumstances at the time of 
the three points of advice in detail. However  in summary, Mr M was advised to start a 
stakeholder personal  pension  in 2002. Regular contributions of £100 per month were paid 
into the plan. The plans charges were 1% of the fund accumulated each year.
In 2007 Mr Ms employment  situation  had changed.  He was Managing Director of a 
business. He was advised to set up a new stakeholder pension plan and the business would 
pay additional contributions into it. It was agreed that regular payments of £250 per month  
would be paid into the plan. The plans charges were the same as the first plan. 
In 2008 Mr M was still in the same employment. He was advised to set up a personal 
pension plan and to stop contributions to the other plans.  It was recorded that Mr M was 
looking at putting commercial premises  into his pension and the personal plan could be 
migrated to a Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP) plan which  allowed this. The suitability 
letter said Mr M had decided he would  like to diversify and not have all his assets in one type 
of approach. He selected his own funds (stocks, safety plus and cash funds) that werent  
available through the stakeholder plan. The plans charges were the same as the previous 
plans. 
Our investigators didnt  think that Mr M has been disadvantaged financially as a result  of 
setting up three separate plans. So they didnt recommend that the complaint should  be 
upheld. 
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators  findings.  He said he didnt think his complaint had 
been handled correctly as it had always only been one complaint. He also said he was 
surprised by the comments about  opening a pension that could incorporate commercial 
property. He said this had never been discussed,  and it had never been his intention  to buy 
commercial property as part of a pension. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusions as the investigators and largely  for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN62653032I realise that Mr M has said the issues he has raised all relate and form part of one 
complaint. However,  for the reasons  explained  by the investigator, in this decision Ive only 
considered the complaint as set out above about  being advised to take out three  separate  
pension plans.
Our investigators set out the circumstances behind each sale in detail. At each point of 
advice the adviser  provided reasons why a new plan was appropriate. I think the new plans 
did provide some benefits - albeit they were marginal; there was some additional flexibility in 
terms of taking benefits and investment choice (even if Mr M wasnt  planning on investing  in 
commercial property).
I think Mr M could have  been advised  differently  which may have resulted in fewer  plans. 
However that doesnt necessarily mean  the advice he was given was inappropriate. I think 
whats key here is that the charges on each of the plans  were the same.  And I dont think the 
advice to take out three separate pension plans  has caused Mr M any financial loss. There 
were no other apparent  material  disadvantages. So overall, taking everything  into account, I 
dont think the advice that Mr M was given about  setting  up three pensions plans was 
inappropriate in the particular circumstances of his case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6265303