K820x#14Complaint
Mr J has complained about an individual savings account (ISA) he held with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva).  He is unhappy  that it decreased in value in 2018.  He is also 
unhappy that because Aviva didnt respond  to his complaint in good time he was prevented 
from transferring his ISA elsewhere, thereby causing  him financial loss.
Background
Mr J held an ISA with Aviva for some  years. In November 2018  he spoke to Aviva  because 
he was concerned about the drop in value of the ISA since June 2018  (around £600). He felt 
that Aviva  had been negligent in the management of his ISA because it had lost so much in 
value even though the stock market at the time had been performing well.
Mr J raised his complaint  with Aviva in November 2018 but Aviva didnt respond until March 
2019, some  four months  after the complaint was raised. It didnt uphold  Mr Js complaint 
explaining that the loss in value was due to market fluctuations and not because  of any mis-
management of the fund.
Mr J wasnt happy with the response  from Aviva.  He then raised  further complaint points. He 
disputed the explanation of the fund performance  which Aviva presented. He also said Aviva  
didnt address the negligent aspect of his complaint. He also felt that the delay in Avivas  
response had prevented  him from transferring his ISA elsewhere and so has caused him 
financial loss.
Aviva didnt uphold  his complaint again.  It said the original complaint  made  no reference to 
Mr J wanting to transfer his ISA to another provider nor did he ask for any information about 
what options were available to him. Also, Aviva stated that while  it did delay in responding 
due to its own mistake this didnt stop Mr J from transferring his ISA elsewhere, so it didnt 
feel any award for financial loss was justified. It also acknowledged that Mr J hadnt chased 
Aviva for a response for four months.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who didnt feel it should  be upheld.  
She wasnt satisfied that the drop in performance of the ISA was enough  to say the fund had 
been mis-managed. She was satisfied with Avivas  explanation of how the fund management 
worked and how this related to the performance of his investment.
She also felt the fund had been  managed in line with its objectives and that while Mr J said 
Aviva had been negligent, he hadnt actually provided anything  to support this. She also 
wasnt persuaded that that the delay in Aviva responding  caused  Mr J any financial loss 
because he could have  moved his ISA elsewhere  at any time.
Mr J didnt agree with assessment but provided no further arguments  or comments.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN65063542Mr J has said Aviva was negligent in the management his fund but hasnt provided any 
reason why he thinks this other than the drop in the value of his ISA at a time when in his 
view the stock market was flourishing. However, in my opinion  this alone isnt enough  to 
show the fund was mis-managed.
Any investment involving  equities will fluctuate in value over the course of its life. This is the 
nature of investing.  And investments such as ISA are usually held over the longer term 
which therefore allows for such fluctuations. In other words, they can remain  in force so they 
can regain value. These fluctuations in value, or performance  of an investment, isnt 
evidence that a fund has been mis-managed  or a fund manager has been negligent. 
Having looked  at the objective of the fund  to provide an income above that of the FTSE All-
Share Index I am satisfied  that the fund was managed within these lines to allow this 
objective to be met. I cant see that the makeup of the fund diverted away from where it 
should have been to meet that objective.  As Mr J well knows share prices and their 
fluctuations cant  be predicted and while the market may overall  be performing well or seem  
to be robust  individual shares  of the individual companies/assets that make up the fund may 
not always be reflecting  that robust  performance.
Therefore, in lieu of any other compelling evidence  from Mr J I think  his ISA has performed 
in the way I would expect  given the make-up of the fund. And while I appreciate a drop in 
value is disappointing  this alone isnt enough for me to safely conclude  that Aviva  has been  
negligent in the management  of the fund.
I know Mr J has said he feels Avivas delay in responding to his initial  complaint caused him 
financial loss. But I am not persuaded by this. I agree the delay wasnt good service by 
Aviva, but I dont  think it impacted Mr J and his ISA. Nothing was stopping Mr J from 
transferring his ISA elsewhere if he had wanted  - this wasnt  reliant upon Aviva  responding 
to his complaint.  Also,  Mr J could have chased Avivas response  if he was keen to transfer  
his ISA. But as he didnt do that this indicates to me he wasnt in a rush to change his 
investment at that time.
Overall, therefore, I havent seen  anything from either party  that leads me to conclude the 
fund in which Mr Js ISA was invested  was mis-managed or that Aviva was negligent  in its 
management of the fund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6506354