K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco), mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms M took out a credit card in October 2000.  At the same time she was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments  on her credit  card for up to 12 months at a time 
if she couldnt work. It also provided  life cover for the outstanding balance  up to £5000.
Ms M says she was told she had to have the PPI to get the credit card. She says she didnt 
need it and it wasnt right for her.
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Ms complaint  should  be upheld. Ms M disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Ms M says that she completed a postal  application  form. She says that she later received a 
telephone call from Tesco advising her that she had to take PPI to be successful in having 
her credit card application approved. 
Tesco say this wasnt the case.  It says that Ms M chose to take the PPI when she filled out 
the postal application form. It has provided a copy of Ms Ms original application form and 
this shows that Ms M ticked a box to say she wanted the PPI. She couldve left this box 
blank if she didnt want it.
On balance, on the information  I have,  I think its likely Ms M chose to take the PPI knowing  
she didnt have to.
Tesco didnt  provide personal advice  to Ms M about the PPI, so it didnt have to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Ms M had all 
the information about the PPI to make her own decision.
The application form doesnt provide much information about  the policy,  so I think its likely 
Ms M didnt have all the information she ideally shouldve done.  But this doesnt mean I 
should automatically uphold Ms Ms complaint. I need to think  about whether Ms M wouldve 
acted differently if shed  had all the information she needed. 
I dont think more, or better, information wouldve changed Ms Ms mind about the policy.  I 
say this because:
Ref: DRN68882582Ms M was eligible for the policy, and she wasnt affected by any of the terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Ms M wouldve received some  sick pay from her employer. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for much longer than her full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So it provided  an additional benefit;
Ms M wouldve received some  redundancy pay, but again  the policy  wouldve  paid 
out in addition to this and for up to a year at a time. So any redundancy pay Ms M 
received from the government or her employer couldve been used for other 
uninsured expenses;
Ms M says she couldve relied  on her partners help if she couldnt  meet  her 
repayments. But while Im sure Ms Ms partner wouldve wanted to help if they 
couldve done, this type of support cant be guaranteed. The policy  wouldve meant 
Ms M didnt have to rely on a third party;
The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  at the 
same time. It was flexible  as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty.
So I dont  think Ms M lost out as a result  of Tesco not providing  all the information  it 
shouldve done  in relation  to the terms and exclusions of the policy  This means Tesco  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M. 
But Tesco has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because:
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms M about  that. Because  Tesco  didnt tell Ms M, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share 
that was  above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said  including what  her representatives said about 
claims for back  pain and mental health  conditions. But these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy itself wasnt  mis-sold  so Tesco  Personal Finance PLC doesnt  have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6888258