K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Ms W payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened over 21 years  ago when the 
sale took place.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
I think its likely the PPI would have been mentioned  in the documents at the time, and 
that it would  have been presented as a choice. And I dont have  strong evidence  to show 
that Bank of Scotland didnt make clear the PPI was optional;  or that it didnt  ensure  that 
Ms W freely chose  to take it. So, without  stronger evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
say that Bank of Scotland  acted wrongly in that way.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms W, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Ms W received any employer sick pay, and potentially  for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it 
seems she didnt  at the time have savings to fall back on  and if she had, it would have 
put off the time shed need to use these or any other forms of help she might have. So 
this all would have  put Ms W in a more secure  position, if she eventually lost income due 
to long term sickness or unemployment.  Ive not been told anything to suggest  she 
couldnt afford the PPI when she took it out and its likely she was eligible for the policy.
Ref: DRN62367672Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Ms W took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Ms W would have  been  affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6236767