K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Santander  UK plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about regular premium PPI policy taken  out with a mortgage arranged  by 
Mr and Mrs D in 1990. 
Mr and Mrs D had also mentioned a PPI policy they thought was sold in 1983. But 
Santander has said it didnt sell them a policy in 1983, and that its PPI sales didnt begin  until 
around 1985. 
So for the purpose of this complaint we have only considered the sale that took place in 
1990.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. Santander disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint about  and Ive set out my reasons below.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check  it was right for their 
circumstances and needs. But I dont think it was suitable for them.
Santander has provided a sample  of the policy it says was sold to Mr and Mrs D. Ive 
assumed thats  right,  and that the sample  is representative of what Mr and Mrs D bought. 
That policy has an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions  which  says the policy 
doesnt insure the borrower against:
(i) The recurrence  of disability or illness  for which medical advice was sought in the 2 year 
period immediately prior to the commencement  of cover.
Mrs D has told us from the outset of the complaint  that by 1990 shed been diagnosed with a 
serious medical condition,  and was under the regular care of her GP and hospital consultant.  
Santander considers  Mrs D should provide further  information and evidence of the condition  
and the treatment she received.
But Mrs Ds testimony has been  consistent since the start of the complaint.  And given the
amount of time thats passed since the policy was sold,  I dont think its fair to expect her to
Ref: DRN66471632provide the evidence Santander is seeking.  I think its reasonable to accept what Mrs D has
told me about her health issue.
From what  shes  told me, I think its likely that Mrs D had sought  medical  advice about  her 
condition in the two years before she and Mr D bought the policy.  So she wouldnt have 
been covered  if shed  had to take time off work in connection with her condition.
As such,  Ive concluded that Santanders  recommendation  to take the policy was 
unreasonable.
Ive not been clearly  shown that Santander discussed Mrs Ds health with her at the
time of sale.  Santander thinks  its adviser wouldve done so, but hasnt given me anything
showing it did this or if so what was said, including the questions asked or what  answers
Mrs D gave, or that she was given  any advice about the exclusion and how it might affect
her.
Santander should have checked Mrs Ds medical  history to make  sure that the PPI was
suitable for her. As Ive already said, had it done  so I think it wouldve realised that the PPI
wasnt right for her. Or at the very least,  Santander shouldve  told Mrs D clearly that she
might not be covered if she needed time off work in connection with her medical  condition.  
I dont think Mr and Mrs D would have bought the policy if Santander had made it clear it 
wasnt suitable, or hadnt recommended it to them.
fair compensation
Santander should put Mr and Mrs D in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander  UK plc to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs D in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66471633
Ref: DRN6647163