K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Investors UK Fund  Services  Limited displays misleading and 
confusing figures on its online platform which makes it impossible to assess how his 
investments are performing. He also says it hasnt offered practical  support in trying to 
understand the contradictory data used  or resolved anything.
background 
In December 2018, three months after hed complained, Aviva upheld  his complaint, 
admitting its columns  were confusing.  It said it would raise this with its technical department 
and paid him £100 as an apology. As of August 2019 this problem was still unresolved.
An investigator at this service said Aviva  admitted  it had been unable to fix the problem and 
was seeking outside help.  He noted  it said Mr T was paying an ongoing  advice fee and so 
could seek assistance  as well obtaining the current value of his investments over the phone.
He said that this service  could not force Aviva to fix the problem but felt it should pay an 
additional £100 given these issues remained unresolved. He also felt it should  offer Mr T the 
option of transferring his investments elsewhere  - and cost-free. Aviva agreed to this. 
Mr T didnt  agree and detailed a range of objections. Briefly, he said:
The offer of an additional £100 is derisory
The offer of paying any transfer charges is vague; does this include exit costs, annual  
management charges,  on costs etc.?
His advisor is not employed  by Aviva so will need paying for any advice
Avivas Key Facts  document promises bi-annual statements to help track of benefits;  
he has never been sent these
It has rejected his requests for clarification of the confusing  tables  by arguing that 
customer information is not made available to staff.  This is ridiculous
The FCA requires businesses to provide  important information to help you decide;  
Aviva has failed  to do this for two years
Avivas platform  is completely flawed and continues to publish  data which is 
inaccurate and misleading
Aviva  is repeatedly failed to keep him informed  or respond  to queries
His ability to take a measured  view of his investments and their performance  has 
been severely curtailed
The investigator said that Mr T had not raised the issue of the bi-annual statements till now 
and he would therefore have to make  a separate complaint about this.
Mr T replied, saying:
Ref: DRN68154312He had now transferred his investments  to a new provider  but had not been given 
any clarity about what costs Aviva  was expected to pay
As an example  of Avivas incompetence his closing statement showed that his initial 
investment of just under £12,000  had fallen in value  by £25,000!
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it is important to say that Mr T has been able to check  his investments values over 
the phone  so has not been prevented from making  decisions  about  his portfolio. I therefore 
dont believe  he has lost out financially as a result  of the problems with Avivas platform.
That said,  I think Aviva  has caused  Mr T very considerable  trouble and upset in terms of the 
time it has taken to respond to his concerns, the quality  of its responses and its failure to 
resolve things.
I share  Mr Ts concerns  about the very lengthy  period during which  he was not able to see 
accurate figures  about his investment, including the recent statement which is confusing, at 
best.
I think it is entirely understandable that he eventually  chose to move his investments to 
another provider  and may have incurred  some cost as he spoke to his independent financial 
advisor about this. From  what  Aviva has said, I accept that it did not charge him for this 
transfer and I dont believe there would have been  any other associated costs. If there were 
any direct  and unavoidable costs I expect Aviva  to pay these. This,  however, does  not 
include any payment  he made to his advisor  for advice about  switching or any additional 
costs associated with his new provider (such as higher charges). 
Overall, I think the investigators recommendation of a total of £200 is only sufficient to 
compensate Mr T for Avivas initial failings. In lieu of its poor ongoing communication,  failure 
to resolve things a year on and its unhelpfully confusing recent statement I am satisfied that 
this figure  should  be increased to £400.
I told Aviva  why I felt that it should  pay this increased sum and while  it didnt agree with a 
number of my arguments it agreed  to this in order to settle  this long-standing dispute.
my final decision
I instruct Aviva Investors UK Fund  Services Limited  to pay Mr T £300 (in addition  to the £100 
it originally paid him).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6815431