K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mrs D and Mr D say Nationwide  Building  Society, trading as Cheshire, mis-sold them  
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs D and Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs D and Mr D took the PPI when they took their mortgage. Theyve told us they were  told 
they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage. But the sale was well over twenty  years  ago. 
So I wouldnt  expect Mrs D and Mr Ds memory of what was said at the sale to be vivid. With 
this in mind,  Mrs D and Mr Ds recollections  arent, on their own,  enough  to make me think 
Nationwide misled them in the way theyve  said. And I havent anything  else that makes me 
think that this is what  Nationwide did.
Having taken into account what Mrs D and Mr D have said,  I think  they agreed to the cover 
but I havent seen enough  overall  to make me think  Nationwide  misled  them  or didnt made 
clear that they had a choice about taking it. Also I havent seen enough  to make me think  
Nationwide pressured  Mrs D and Mr D into taking  the cover or didnt give them  a real choice.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D and Mr D. Mrs D and Mr D have said 
it did. If Nationwide did recommend the cover, it wouldve had to do more and check the 
cover was right for Mrs D and Mr D. And Ive assessed the case on that basis  which places  
more responsibility  on Nationwide.
But based  on what Ive seen of Mrs D and Mr Ds circumstances at the time, I think  the PPI 
was right for them. For example Mr D, who the cover was on, wasnt  affected  by any of the 
limits on or exclusions to the cover. And Mrs D and Mr D seem to have had a need for the 
cover. From  what theyve  told us, Mr Ds work sick pay wouldve lasted for only six months.  
For a successful sickness or unemployment claim the PPI wouldve paid out for longer  up 
to twelve months  and on top of any work benefits  Mr D received. Mrs D and Mr D have told 
us they couldve  sold their car instead.  But taking the PPI made it less likely theyd have to 
sell their car to meet their mortgage payments. 
I dont know if Mrs D couldve paid the mortgage on her own if Mr D lost his income  due to 
unemployment or disability. But even if she couldve, Mrs D and Mr D would still be suffering 
a drop in income in that situation due to Mr Ds loss of income. And the PPI was affordable 
insurance that would  help them with that. And although theyve said their family couldve 
paid their mortgage instead, other  peoples circumstances and ability  to help can change. 
Mrs D and Mr D have said Nationwide didnt explain the PPI terms and conditions. I cant  
say exactly what Nationwide told them. So its possible  the information given about  the PPI 
wasnt as full or as clear  as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look like Mrs D and Mr D were 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. And, for the reasons Ive 
Ref: DRN62366622already given above, it looks like the cover would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. Also the PPI was cover for Mrs D and Mr Ds mortgage  a long term liability 
secured on their home.  Taking  everything  into account, I dont think better  information  about 
the PPI would have put Mrs D and Mr D off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mrs D and Mr Ds points but for the reasons given above these points 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6236662