K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly cancelled his car insurance  
policy.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
background
On 14 June 2014, Mr E called UKI to renew his policy and to update his address. The 
change of address  meant he had to pay an additional premium. At renewal Mr E had a 
different bank card to the one UKI had for him previously, so he had to provide his new card 
details so that payment could be made. UKI told Mr E that he had 14 days  to make  payment  
or the policy would  be cancelled.  Mr E said that he called UKI back  that same day as he was 
concerned and wanted to ensure payment  was made. He said UKIs call handler told him 
payment would be made automatically, but as the call handlers systems were  down  they 
were unable to say if payment went through.
Mr E said he called UKI the following day on 15 June and was told payment would be made 
automatically, although it wouldnt be taken until 21 June. He said UKI told him his policy  
was renewed, but he would  need to talk with the accounts department who were  not open  
that day. Mr E said he also received a letter from UKI confirming his policy had been 
renewed.
Mr E said he next received a letter from UKI in July 2014 that said his policy had been 
cancelled on 30 June  2014 for non-payment.  Mr E asked for the policy to be reinstated  but 
UKI said that couldnt be done and he would have  to take out a new policy.
Mr E complained. He said he thought payment had been made  as he had provided his new 
card details and the policy  had been  renewed. He said UKI shouldnt have cancelled  the 
policy without first writing to warn him. He said he now had to declare the cancellation every  
time he takes out car insurance and his premiums  have been higher. UKI didnt uphold  
Mr Es complaint so he brought it to our service.  One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint. He felt that UKI hadnt treated Mr E fairly. He said UKI should have first tried to 
contact Mr E to warn him the policy would  be cancelled  before they went  ahead and 
cancelled it. He recommended  that UKI should:  refund the difference between the premium 
Mr E paid for the new policy  and what he would have paid for the cancelled  policy;  pay £75 
compensation for the inconvenience Mr E experienced; and for UKI to remove from all 
records any reference to the cancellation. As UKI didnt agree  with our investigator,  the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I must decide if UKI have dealt with Mr E in a fair and reasonable way.
Im told by UKI that given the passage of time, the call recordings are no longer available. So 
I have to rely on the notes and the parties recollections. What is clear  is that Mr E did call 
UKI on 14 and 15 June to renew his policy. He accepted  the additional premium and was 
Ref: DRN61599622happy to pay it. It seems to me that there  was some  misunderstanding as Mr E thought  
payment was going to be taken automatically.  I can understand why he thought that given he 
said he gave his new card details to UKI and they confirmed his policy had been renewed. 
Mr E accepts that when  he called  on 15 June 2014 he was told he needed to talk with the 
accounts department, which was closed  that day. He also accepts he didnt call them after 
that date. But at the same time UKIs accounts department didnt contact Mr E, which they 
could have done if payment hadnt  been  received.
While I accept UKI told Mr E on 14 June 2014  that the policy would be cancelled  unless  
payment was made within 14 days, I think they should have warned him they were  going to 
cancel the policy because payment hadnt been made. The policy terms say we have the 
right to cancel this policy by sending seven  days written notice... But UKI didnt send  Mr E 
written notice that they were going  to cancel, which I think was unfair. Cancellation  of an 
insurance policy by an insurer can have serious  consequences for a policy holder given they 
have to declare  it when  applying for a new policy. And having had a policy cancelled is often 
considered by insurers as a negative thing and can lead to higher premiums.  Im therefore  
upholding this complaint.
I understand that after his policy was cancelled, Mr E took out a new policy with UKI which 
cost higher than his renewal premium. To put things  right I require UKI to refund  the 
difference in premium paid between the policy Mr E took out after the cancellation and the 
premium he should  have paid had his policy not been wrongly  cancelled.  That is of course  if 
the risk factors for his new policy were identical to those of the cancelled  policy. What  I mean  
by that is if when Mr E took out the new policy he asked for different factors  to be covered, 
for example an additional driver to be added, that may have led to an increase  in premium, 
allowance should  be made for that. Any amount due to be refunded to Mr E should include 
simple interest at a rate of 8% a year from the date he made payment until the refund is 
made.
If Mr E renewed his policy with UKI in subsequent years and if they charged him an 
additional premium  to reflect the fact that his 2014  policy had been cancelled,  UKI should 
refund Mr E that part of the premium together with simple interest  at a rate of 8% a year from 
the date of payment until the refund is made.
Given this incident  has caused Mr E inconvenience I require UKI to pay him £75 
compensation. I also require UKI to correct all internal and external records to remove  any 
reference to the 2014  policy being  cancelled by UKI and to write to Mr E to confirm  that they 
cancelled his policy in error. Mr E wont have to declare that cancellation when applying for 
future policies.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited to:
Refund the difference in premium  paid between the policy Mr E took out after the 
cancellation and the premium he should  have paid had his policy  not been wrongly 
cancelled. Simple interest at a rate of 8% a year should be added  from the date he 
made payment  until the refund is made.1
1 If UKI consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr E how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
Ref: DRN61599623Refund Mr E any additional  premium  he was charged during subsequent policy 
renewals with UKI because of the 2014 cancellation. Simple  interest  at a rate of 8% a 
year should be added to any refund from the date of payment  until the refund is 
made.
Pay Mr E £75 compensation for the inconvenience he experienced. This should be 
paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr E has accepted my final decision. If 
they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Correct all internal and external records to remove any reference  to the 2014 policy 
being cancelled  by UKI and to write to Mr E to confirm  that they cancelled his policy  
in error.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.  
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6159962