K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Great Lakes Insurance SE acted unfairly  and unreasonably in 
declining her claim under a legal expenses insurance policy.  She wants  a legal firm 
appointed to deal with her case.
background
Miss A had a legal expenses insurance policy with Great Lakes. She made a claim for her 
legal costs to be funded  to deal with a dispute with her neighbour. A boundary  wall had 
moved and collapsed in November 2018,  following the building  of an extension by the 
neighbour in 2013. Great  Lakes said that the claim arose before the policy  was in place as it 
stemmed from the work done  in 2013,  and there  wasnt  continuous similar cover in place 
from 2013 onwards.  There was a gap of about four days. Miss As claim was declined.
Miss A complained to Great Lakes. It said that the event which gave rise to the claim 
happened in 2013, and this was excluded under the policy  as it happened before it was in 
place. Great Lakes said that the policy didnt  cover claims if there was an alternative policy  
available to deal with the matter; it thought  that Miss As building and contents policy may 
cover the claim and asked  her to check. Great  Lakes told Miss A that to be covered she 
would need to have reasonable prospects of success, and shed need  to get a surveyors 
report to show this.
Miss A complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. 
He said that there was no dispute over the level of cover Miss A had in place between 2013  
and 2018, but there  was a four day gap in 2016 between the policies. The investigator noted 
that Miss A thought  this had been an administrative error or oversight, and Great  Lakes 
wasnt prejudiced  by the gap. He thought the claim should be considered  and noted the 
insurance did cover claims in relation to the home,  and that there was a supportive  
surveyors report. The investigator also pointed out that the home insurer  had refused cover. 
He said Great Lakes  should consider the claim under  the terms and conditions  of the policy.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said that that based  on the evidence  provided to it, the event that 
caused the claim pre-dated its policy. Great Lakes felt that it was Miss As duty to ensure 
that she was insured  for the whole period and there was no evidence  of a mistake  being 
made by her, causing  the four day gap. It was willing to consider the matter again if Miss A 
provided more evidence about  the gap in cover. Miss A said that she couldnt really explain, 
other than at times she had overlapping cover for a few days and mayve been  away. She 
pointed out that she generally  had cover. The insurer who covered Miss A in 2013 refused to 
cover her for this claim as it said the event  happened in 2018,  when the wall collapsed.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
When I refer to Great Lakes, Im also referring  to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility  to handle claims promptly  and fairly. 
And it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN64627642The policy says that it doesnt cover events  that happened before the insurance  policy  
started. And it defines event  as the initial event,  act or omission which sets off a natural 
and continuous  sequence of events  that subsequently gives rise to a claim for indemnity 
against us.
But Great Lakes also has said if Miss A had similar  continuous legal expenses insurance  in 
place from 2013,  when it says the event first happened (the building work which the 
evidence suggests  led to the wall collapse in 2018), to 2018,  it will consider dealing  with the 
claim. Both parties agree  that theres been  a four day gap in cover from 2016.
I would question whether Great Lakes is acting  fairly  and reasonably  in taking the view that 
the event date is 2013. The 2013  insurer has said the event is when the wall collapsed in 
2018. And from a legal point of view, I think theres an argument that the loss (and ability to 
bring the claim) didnt  arise until 2018,  though I accept that the building work in 2013  
appears to be a likely cause of the wall collapse. But as Great Lakes has focused its refusal 
to consider the claim on the four day gap in cover in 2016, Ill concentrate  on this.
Looking at the history  of Miss As policies from 2013  to date, its clear that she historically did 
arrange for cover to be in place. There are years  when policies overlap by a few days, and in 
2016 the reverse happened and Miss A was without cover for four days. But Im satisfied 
that the pattern indicates that Miss A made a mistake; its more  likely than not that she didnt  
intend to be without cover. Great Lakes has asked for more evidence, but it isnt possible  to 
provide evidence of an oversight  all that can be made available has been  provided.
Great Lakes has said that this isnt good enough. But what  prejudice does it suffer compared 
to Miss A? Miss A is left without cover for the legal expenses  in bringing a claim  jointly with 
her neighbours to deal with a significant  issue. Miss As 2013 legal expenses  insurer is 
refusing cover on the basis that the event happened in 2018, when Great Lakes were at risk. 
The home insurer has also refused cover. Great Lakes on the other hand is in no worse a 
position than if the gap didnt exist at all. Four days arent a significant period of time 
compared to five years. I dont think its fair or reasonable  for Great Lakes to refuse to 
consider the claim  in the circumstances.
I think Great Lakes should consider  the claim under the terms and conditions of the rest of 
its policy. This includes considering whether the claim has reasonable prospects of success, 
which is a matter for legal  assessment. I note that it has concerns  about the surveyors  
report obtained. I would invite  Great Lakes to consider carefully  what the report  says and 
how the surveyor has approached his task before deciding  to refuse to accept its contents as 
valid. Insurers do have to act fairly  and reasonably  in all aspects of their decision-making  
role.
I thought about  whether Miss A should receive compensation for any trouble and upset  
caused by Great Lakes refusal to consider her claim. I think  that its fair and reasonable for 
Great Lakes to do so as it didnt act fairly or reasonably and the evidence shows Miss A was 
upset (and had to go to the trouble of bringing this complaint). Money never truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset, but I think £150 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64627643In response to my provisional decision,  Miss M said that she agreed with it. Great Lakes said 
that it didnt particularly agree  with my findings,  but it had no further comments  or 
submissions to make.
In light of the comments of the parties,  I dont  see any reason to change my view, though I 
have considered the position again to ensure that my decision is fair and reasonable. I have 
taken the opportunity to amend a tying error in my provisional decision, but it doesnt change  
my view. Accordingly, I confirm that my provisional  decision  will be confirmed as my final 
decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Great Lakes Insurance SE should consider 
Miss As claim under the terms and conditions of its policy and pay £150  compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to Miss A. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6462764