K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision which I issued in 
February 2019. That provisional decision is attached here and forms part of my final 
decision.
Both parties  were invited  to make further comment and representation.  Mrs R was invited to 
submit some  additional information  to support her position that she was working less than 16 
hours a week.  Neither party had anything further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further to add, and Mrs R wasnt  able to supply the requested 
information, I see no reason to depart  from my conclusions in my provisional decision.
my final decision
The policy wasnt mis-sold,  but Tesco will pay back to Mrs R any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, as detailed in my provisional  
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61198882Provisional decision
complaint
Mrs R complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs R applied online  for a credit card with Tesco in 2009. At the same time she bought a PPI policy  
which wouldve helped cover her repayments for up to a year at a time if she couldnt  work.
Mrs R says she thought she had a better chance of qualifying for the credit card if she took the PPI. 
She indicates  that she didnt need the cover.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld, because  they thought  Mrs R wasnt 
eligible for the policy. Tesco  disagree, so the case has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when making my provisional  decision. Having done so, I dont currently  intend to uphold Mrs 
Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R applied for the credit card and PPI online. Mrs R doesnt suggest  the PPI was added  without 
her knowledge or consent; indeed the details of the screens  seen by Mrs R provided by Tesco  shows 
that Mrs R selected the PPI and that it was optional. Mrs R does, however,  say that she thought by 
taking the PPI shed have a better  chance of qualifying for the credit card.
Mrs R doesnt say what made her think that way. But theres nothing on the screens to suggest this 
was the case, and Mrs R didnt have any contact with a Tesco  representative. So I dont think Mrs R 
was erroneously led to believe the PPI wouldve influenced  the outcome of her credit application by 
anything Tesco did wrong.
Turning now to Mrs Rs eligibility for the cover and the reason why the adjudicator  thought Mrs Rs 
complaint should be upheld. I think that Mrs R was  eligible for the cover. 
Mrs R told us in her questionnaire to this service  that she worked variable hours  between  0 and 30 
hours per week.  The adjudicator thought that this meant Mrs R didnt meet  the eligibility criterion to be 
working at least 16 hours a week. 
But when Mrs R applied for her card she told Tesco she was working  full time.  And at the time she 
stated she had a salary  which appears commensurate with working no less than 16 hours a week in 
the role that she was employed  in. 
Mrs R also told this service  that she wouldve received six months  full sick pay and six months half 
sick pay in her role, although this differs to the information Mrs R gave Tesco when they first 
investigated her complaint.  I dont think  this sick pay would have been possible in a role where Mrs R 
didnt work regular hours. 
We asked  for evidence that Mrs R was working  less than 16 hours  a week but Mrs R wasnt  able to 
supply this. So, on the balance of evidence I have,  I dont think I can safely  say that Mrs R wasnt 
eligible for the policy.
Tesco didnt give Mrs R a personal recommendation  to buy the policy, so it didnt need  to check it was 
right for her. But it did need to make sure Mrs R had enough information  to make her own decision.
Ref: DRN61198883Its possible Tesco didnt  do this. But this doesnt  mean I should  automatically uphold  Mrs Rs 
complaint. I have to consider whether Mrs R wouldve  acted  differently and not bought the policy if 
shed had all the details.
I dont think Mrs R wouldve acted differently.  I say this because:
Mrs R wouldnt have been affected  by any terms which mightve made it more difficult for her 
to make a successful  claim;
I think Mrs R wouldve understood the basic premise  that the PPI wouldve helped with her 
repayments if she couldnt  work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because  the 
application form explained this. So it was up to her to decide whether  her existing means  such 
as sick pay, redundancy pay, savings or help from friends and family were sufficient;
The cost of the policy  was comparable  with other similar policies on the market  at the time. 
And I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for her. 
So although I think its possible Mrs R didnt  get all the information she shouldve done in relation to 
the policy,  I dont think she lost out as a result.  This means Tesco doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Tesco will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because:
When the policy was sold, Tesco expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. 
Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco  has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mrs R any extra  interest she paid because  of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs R the difference between what she 
owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of 
the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs R 8%* simple interest if Mrs R paid off her credit card 
at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my provisional  decision
Im not currently intending  to uphold Mrs Rs mis-sale  complaint. However,  if Mrs R is able to provide 
evidence of her employment  situation at the time of sale, along with evidence of her employee 
benefits and other financial  means to meet her repayments  if she wasnt working I will reconsider her 
complaint. Mrs R should also explain  why she ticked to confirm she was working in excess  of 16 
hours a week  as part of her application, if this wasnt the case.
Both parties have  until 25 March 2019 to provide any further information they wish me to consider.
If my decision becomes final Tesco Personal Finance PLC will be directed to pay the compensation  
detailed above in relation to commission payments.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61198884
Ref: DRN6119888