K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Crownhouse IFAS  Ltd (Crownhouse) gave him unsuitable advice to 
invest in three unregulated patent investment/tax mitigation  schemes. This decision is about  
his investment of £70,000, on a leveraged basis, in the Zink Technologies (Zink) patent 
scheme in January 2012. The complaint about  the other two investments is being addressed 
separately. Mr B is represented in his complaint.
background
Mr Bs position, as he and his representative have presented  it, is mainly  as follows:
He was advised to invest in Zink in late 2011,  as a way to use part of an employment 
related lump sum he previously received in that year. He says Crownhouse assured 
him that the application  for the relevant patent  would be successful and the patent 
would be valuable  thereafter but, in the alternative, if the scheme was unsuccessful  
the resulting loss could be used as a tax benefit  that is, the loss could be written  off 
against his tax liability. The patent  was granted but it turned out to be worthless,  his 
investment capital was lost and he subsequently  learnt that HMRC would  not allow 
the loss to be written  off against his tax liability.
Before investing  in Zink his investment experience was limited to buy-to-let 
properties, an Individual Savings  Account (ISA), pensions and investment in a 
government backed Business Property  Renovation Allowance (BPRA)  Scheme. He 
did not have experience  of unregulated investments  and his BPRA  related 
experience involved  an industry sector that he was/is professionally familiar with. He 
says the investment in Zink was unsuitable because it was beyond his appetite for 
risk, because  the investment was beyond his experience and expertise and because 
Crownhouses advice was given without  an assessment of his personal 
circumstances at the time.
In support of the complaint, his representative also alleges that Crownhouse 
breached the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the regulators 
Handbook, in terms of COBS 9.2.1(R),  COBS 9.2.2(R)  and COBS  9.4.1(R)   the first 
two rules relate to Crownhouses alleged failure  to assess  suitability of the Zink 
investment for Mr B and the third relates  to its alleged failure to provide a suitability 
report.
Crownhouses position  is mainly  as follows:
It did not promote  itself or the investment to Mr B. He approached Crownhouse for 
assistance in investing his lump  sum into a tax mitigation scheme. It first met with him 
in December 2011. Thereafter, and on his behalf, it looked into the market  for a 
scheme(s) that matched his circumstances. It advised/recommended  some  regulated  
options to Mr B. It also identified unregulated options but, in this respect, it told Mr B 
that it could neither  give advice on their prospects for success  nor could it give tax 
advice in relation  to them  and that it could only discharge the role of an introducer , to 
the relevant scheme  operator, in this respect. Mr B preferred the unregulated options 
and it introduced him to the operator of the Zink investment  scheme  the same  
operator of the other two schemes he subsequently invested in. It believes the 
scheme operator advised Mr B.
Mr Bs objective was tax mitigation. His accountant provided certification that he was 
a high net worth (HNW) investor,  he and his wife jointly  earned over £300,000 per 
year, the total lump  sum he had was around  £380,000, his and his wifes joint net 
Ref: DRN65104092worth (aside from the lump sum and excluding their home)  was over £1 million and 
his previous investment experience included a comparable leverage  based tax 
mitigation scheme  in the form of the BPRA investment he made in the year before.
The tax mitigation objective  was important to Mr B. When the patent in the Zink 
investment was granted that meant  no loss arose from it so he initiated the 
investment in another patent related tax mitigation scheme in the hope  that an 
unsuccessful patent application within it would produce a loss which,  in a leveraged 
context, could be written off against his tax liability. This led to the second  scheme  
investment in March  2012, the opportunity for which Crownhouse identified for him. 
The patent application in that scheme  was also successful so Mr B initiated  the 
investment in a third patent scheme for the same reason. The patent application in 
the third scheme  was unsuccessful and as far as Crownhouse was aware, until 
around 2013, Mr B proceeded  to claim the relevant tax relief. In 2013  it learnt  that he 
had a problem  in this respect  but he did not make  contact thereafter  until his 
representatives complaint(s) in 2016.
It suggests that the complaint was not made in time after Mr B learnt  about the 
HMRC problems in 2013.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaints  about Mr Bs investments in all three 
schemes. She did not consider  that they should  be upheld and the reasons she gave in 
relation to the Zink investment are broadly similar  to her reasons for the others. In the main, 
she said that the complaints were in time  within six years  of the dates of investments  but 
she was not persuaded by evidence that Crownhouse recommended  the investments to    
Mr B. Mr B and his representative rejected this outcome, re-presented and elaborated upon 
their points and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said above,  this decision is only 
about the Zink investment.  
Time Limit
I too consider  that the complaint is in time.  The regulators rules say that we cannot  consider 
a complaint referred more than six years after the event or (if later) more  than three  years  
after the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have known there  was cause to complain 
 unless the complainant has a written (or some  other) record  that shows a complaint was 
made in time. A late complaint can be considered where exceptional circumstances have 
caused the delay. In straightforward terms, the Zink investment  event took place in January 
2012, the complaint to Crownhouse was made in July 2016 and was referred to us thereafter 
in the same year. Both the complaint and the referral are within  the six years time limit.
Advice
Crownhouse does not dispute that it gave Mr B advice, but it says its advice was limited  to 
regulated tax mitigation schemes which he declined  to invest in. Its dispute  is that it did not 
recommend his investment in the unregulated  Zink investment  or in the other  two 
unregulated patent scheme investments that followed.
There is sufficient evidence to conclude that, at the very least,  Crownhouse was engaged in 
the regulated  activity  of arranging deals in investment for Mr Bs Zink investment. Arranging 
Ref: DRN65104093deals in investments  is defined  as  making  arrangements for another person (whether as 
principal or agent)  to buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment  This 
conclusion arises from the extent to which  Crownhouse was involved,  as it concedes, in 
searching the market  for the schemes, in identifying  such schemes, in reporting  back to Mr B 
and in introducing Mr B to the operator of the schemes. It is (or should be) arguably  beyond 
dispute that it arranged the Zink investment for Mr B.
In order for Mr Bs complaint, as it has been presented, to succeed he needs to show more 
than Crownhouses role in arranging the investment. The complaint needs persuasive  
evidence that an express  recommendation  of the Zink investment was given to him by 
Crownhouse. The regulatory rules (about suitability)  cited by his representative apply if there 
was advice  which the regulations require to be suitable  from Crownhouse in relation to 
the Zink investment. Investment advice (advising on investments) is defined  as:
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential  investor   on the 
merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
buying selling,  subscribing for or underwriting  a particular investment  which  is a security  or a 
[relevant investment], or
exercising any right conferred by such an investment  to buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite 
such an investment.
I am satisfied that Crownhouse was engaged in advising Mr B on the investment of his lump  
sum for a tax mitigation  purpose.  It accepts that it recommended  regulated  investments in 
this respect and there is evidence in the form of its letter of February 2012  albeit after the 
investment in January 2011  referring to such  investments. However, this does not 
automatically mean that it recommended  the Zink investment. The core issues  are whether 
(or not) it went as far as to recommend unregulated investments, as Mr B alleges, or as far 
as to recommend  the Zink investment  specifically,  as is also alleged in the complaint.
The letter of February 2012 is the main available piece of evidence  from around the time of 
the Zink investment. It includes reference  to the unregulated  patent  scheme  investment  
option for the tax mitigation purpose. It has been suggested that this letter  could be 
unreliable or of limited value given that it refers to investment options after the relevant 
investment had been executed in the preceding month. However, as I address below, it is 
arguable that in this case there  is a degree of evidence  value arising  from the fact that it was 
sent after the Zink investment. 
There does not appear  to be evidence, from the relevant  time,  showing that Mr B objected  to 
the letter or to its contents. Such  absence  suggests  that even if the letter  should  have  
preceded the Zink investment, its contents remain arguably reliable  because  Mr B does not 
appear to have objected to it at the time in 2012 or between then and his complaint in 2016.
The letter expressly  says that Crownhouse was unable to give advice on the prospects of a 
patent scheme as an investment or in the context of tax planning, and that the scheme 
operator was responsible  for such advice. There appears to be no evidence that Mr B 
disputed this at the time. Given that the Zink investment had already taken place in the 
previous month,  it is reasonable to expect that he would have commented on this statement 
if it misrepresented the source of any advice he received  for the investment. After  the letter, 
Mr B returned to Crownhouse for two further  patent  scheme investments. If the letter 
misrepresented its role in the Zink investment  it is more likely (than not) that he would have 
sought to clarify such a misrepresentation  in the course  of the next two investments  but 
Ref: DRN65104094there appears to be no evidence showing  this. The implication,  on balance, is that the 
statement was correct  and that Crownhouse did not give advice on the Zink investment.
Mr Bs representative recently  provided  this service  with an email from the scheme operator, 
which was also drafted recently, in which it says it was not responsible  for advice on the 
patent scheme investment(s).  This suggests that reference in Crownhouses letter to the 
scheme operators responsibility for such advice might have been inaccurate. If this is so, it 
is arguably also possible that Crownhouse did not know that the scheme operator might  not 
give such advice when  it made the statement in the letter. Primarily, I consider that the point  
noted above applies. If Mr B had not received  advice from the scheme operator leading to 
the Zink investment in January, it is reasonable to expect that he would have corrected the 
February letter in this respect.  I have not seen  evidence  that he did.
As I said above there is a need  to show that Crownhouse recommended (advised) Mr Bs 
investment in the Zink scheme, in order to consider whether  (or not) it discharged its 
regulated obligation to provide suitable advice  which is the crux of the complaint. I am 
satisfied that it arranged the investment but that is not enough to uphold  the complaint as 
presented. On balance,  there is not enough  evidence to conclude  that it advised  Mr B to 
make the investment. Available evidence is that it expressly disclaimed responsibility for 
such advice and that Mr B does  not appear  to have disputed that at the time.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 6 March  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6510409