K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Nationwide  Building Society  refused to raise a chargeback  claim in 
relation to her cancelled  package holiday, failed to cancel a payment as instructed, and 
failed to reply to her correspondence.
background
In January 2018 Mrs D booked a package holiday with a third party.  She paid a deposit of 
£240 on her debit card, and pre-authorised the payment of the balance,  which  was £1,915.  
(There is a dispute about what  kind of payment that was.) She says (and has proved) that 
the third party  had described  the hotel as wheelchair accessible, which  was important to 
her as she uses a wheelchair.  But a few days later, she looked at photos of the hotel online, 
and saw that the wheelchair ramps were  much too steep. She also says the ramps are 
unsafe for other  reasons,  such  as having  a gap next to them  where a wheelchair  could  fall 
off, and being too close to windows. So she cancelled  the holiday,  and asked Nationwide  to 
raise a chargeback  for the deposit,  and to cancel the payment of the outstanding balance.
Nationwide refused to raise a chargeback. The tour operators terms and conditions  said that 
in some circumstances,  a full refund would not be paid in the event  of cancellation. It said 
the tour operator had told it that the ramps conformed to the standards required in the 
country where the hotel was. It said that none of the recognised chargeback  reasons were  
applicable. And it said that a pre-authorised payment could not be cancelled  (contrary to 
what it had told her originally), so it had no choice but to process  the payment, which it did in 
June. (Mrs D says she received a refund of about  a third of the holiday money from the tour 
operator, but it kept the rest.)
Mrs Ds husband brought  this complaint  to our Service on her behalf.  Mr and Mrs D also say 
that Nationwide asked them to send copies of documents  they had already sent before, and 
ignored their letters. Nationwide has paid her £250  for the customer service issues.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed that there was not enough  
evidence that the hotel  was not wheelchair accessible, so he thought a chargeback would 
not have succeeded. He said that Nationwide couldnt refuse  to process  a pre-authorised 
transaction. He acknowledged that this transaction had been described on Mrs Ds 
statement as a recurring payment (which can be cancelled), but he said this had been 
wrong. He said that the £250  was fair compensation for that and for the other  service  issues.
Mr D asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He insisted that the payment of £1,915 was 
unauthorised, and that Nationwide had assured him that it was a recurring payment 
authority.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the account is now in Mr and Mrs Ds joint names, Nationwide  says it was her sole 
account at the relevant time, and so I have  treated  this complaint as solely  her complaint,  
since he is not an eligible  complainant under our rules. This has not affected the outcome, 
however.
Ref: DRN69147072The transaction for £1,915.20 is clearly  described on the relevant bank statement as a 
Recurring VISA Transaction.  So I can understand why Mr and Mrs D thought  it could be 
cancelled. But on the balance of probabilities, I accept that this was most likely a mistake,  as 
Nationwide says, because  Mrs D only wanted  to make this payment once. A recurring 
payment would not have been suitable for a one-off  payment, which  was not to be repeated. 
It is intended for monthly or annual  subscriptions  and the like. So I accept Nationwides 
explanation for why it didnt cancel the payment.
I think that sufficient evidence was provided to show that the wheelchair  ramps would not 
have met UK standards, if the hotel had been  in the UK. But I dont think that the two words 
wheelchair accessible on their own, in a brochure,  means that the ramps  at a foreign resort 
will conform to UK standards.  Theres no evidence  that the ramps  did not conform to the 
laws of the country in which they were situated, or of what  those laws require. It is a less 
developed country  than the UK, so I will not assume that the laws are similar. So I agree that 
a chargeback based on the inadequacy of the ramps would not have succeeded.
Finally, I think  that £250 is fair compensation for the general customer service failings, and is 
in line with what our Service would typically award.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020 (but Mr D may reply  on her behalf if she prefers).
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6914707