K821x#15summary of complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that Positive  Solutions  (Financial Services)  Limited gave  him unsuitable  
advice to transfer his pensions  to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP)  in order  to invest  
in an overseas property  investment scheme  with Harlequin Property. That scheme has failed 
and Mr S has lost the pension money  he invested.  
background to complaint
This complaint relates to events in 2010. The allegation is that Mr S was advised by an 
adviser I will call Mr H. Mr S says Mr H was acting for Positive Solutions and its responsible 
for the advice Mr H gave.  Mr S says that was advice to transfer existing  pensions  to a new 
SIPP in order to invest in a Harlequin  Property investment. Positive Solutions says Mr H was 
not acting for it and its not responsible.  
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019. I said I thought  we could  consider  the 
complaint against  Positive Solutions, that it was responsible for the advice Mr H gave and 
that the advice  was unsuitable. I also explained how I thought Positive Solutions should put 
things right.  
Both parties  are represented by lawyers.  Mr S agreed with my provisional  decision. Positive 
Solutions did not. Their  lawyers said a number of things, including:
It considers my provisional conclusions on jurisdiction are wrong as a matter of law. 
And the conclusions I drew from the case law dealing with principals and agents are 
wrong.
My provisional decision fundamentally misses that Mr S was not and has never 
been a client of Positive Solutions. And to be an eligible complainant  Mr S must have 
been a customer  of Positive Solutions. But there  is no evidence  he ever was. Positive 
Solutions has no record of the earlier re-mortgage advice  referred  to in the 
provisional decision.
My provisional decision fundamentally misses Mr H advised Mr S without Positive 
Solutions knowledge or authority,  as he was operating on behalf of another  company, 
Tailor Made,  which  had nothing to do with Positive Solutions. Further Positive  
Solutions gave no representation to Mr S in respect of either the pension transfer 
advice or the investment into Harlequin.
The provisional conclusion appears  to wrongly  ask whether Positive Solutions gave 
Mr H authority to transact a general  class  of acts and assuming that Positive 
Solutions did so, it has granted apparent authority.  This is not the correct  question.  
The correct question  is whether  there is ostensible authority in relation to this 
transaction. And in any event Positive  Solutions had not given Mr H authority to 
advise on pension  transfers of this type or the Harlequin investment.
None of the alleged representations  were relevant representations in the 
circumstances. 
As no relevant  representations were made the issue of reliance  is irrelevant.
Mr S cannot credibly say he relied  on Positive  Solutions as there are no documents 
linking it to the advice. He was not even a client of Positive Solutions.  He had no 
contract with it. He received no documents from Positive Solutions,  but he did sign a 
form that said money would be paid to Tailor  Made.
It is not the case that there is a broad test of justice as a matter of law.
The case  of Cox v Ministry of Justice is not relevant  to this complaint.
Ref: DRN65229852It is clear Mr H was advising  in the context of a recognisably independent  business  
(Tailor Made).
Mr H may have  been giving investment advice and he may have filled in forms, but 
these were activities which Positive Solutions prohibited, and which  were  fraudulent.
The analysis of the position, if Cox does not apply, is wrong.  In a commercial agency  
case vicarious liability adds nothing to the concept of actual and apparent  authority 
which are the governing principles.
In any event the complaint the complaint is not suitable for determination  by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and is more appropriately dealt with by the court. It is 
impossible to make fair findings on the issue of reliance without cross examination 
and disclosure.
Without prejudice to the above  points,  Positive Solutions does not agree that Mr S 
was not a high risk investor given that he invested without  receiving any written 
advice or any engagement letter. The proposed redress is not clear.
my findings
I have considered all the evidence  and arguments both parties have  provided  on this 
complaint. Having done so I have reached  the same conclusions as I did in my provisional  
decision on 15 November 2019. Those  conclusions were:
Mr Ss complaint is about an act or omission in relation  to carrying on of the regulated  
activity of giving investment  advice. 
Positive Solutions represented  to Mr S that Mr H had authority to conduct business of 
the same  type as the business he did conduct.  And Mr S relied on those 
representations. Apparent authority therefore operated and Positive  Solutions  is 
responsible for the acts Mr S complains about.
In addition, Positive Solutions  is vicariously  liable for the investment advice Mr H 
gave to Mr S. Although  he was not an employee of Positive  Solutions, he was an 
approved person  with responsibility  for carrying on Positive  Solutions business  of 
advising its customers and arranging the investments recommended.  As such he 
carried on activities as an integral part of Positive Solutions business  and had a 
sufficient relationship to Positive  Solutions for vicarious liability  to arise. Mr Hs advice  
was so closely connected to Positive Solutions  business activities as to make it just 
to hold Positive Solutions liable for it.
Positive Solutions is also liable to Mr S under section 150 of the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000.
Mr Ss complaint is therefore within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service.
Mr Hs advice was unsuitable  for Mr S. Mr S acted on the advice  and suffered loss as 
a result of it.
It is fair and reasonable for Positive Solutions to compensate Mr S for that loss.
My reasons  for my conclusions  are set out in my provisional decision and below. An 
anonymised version  of my provisional  decision  (on which I have also corrected previous 
typing errors) is attached and forms part of this final decision.
was Mr S a customer of Positive Solutions?
I accept there is no record of Mr S being a client for the advice complained  about.  Or the 
earlier re-mortgage.  
Ref: DRN65229853On the re-mortgage,  Mr S said he and his wife were  introduced to the other Positive  
Solutions adviser (Mr W) by their daughter and that Mr W helped to remortgage our house. 
He was not able to provide any documents relating to that matter when asked.
The earlier re-mortgage  is not part of this complaint. So, whether advice was or was not 
given is not in itself relevant. It is the case that a lack of any record  or other  documentary  
evidence does not necessarily mean advice was not given. Nor does it mean  that Mr Ss 
evidence in relation to the pension and Harlequin  investment advice is fatally undermined.  
All the evidence has been  considered and my view on the evidence was explained  in my 
provisional decision. My view on the disputed advice was not dependent upon Mr S being an 
existing client based on the re-mortgage matter.
It is correct to say that the Financial Ombudsman  Service may only consider complaints from 
eligible complainants.  And that to be eligible a consumer such as Mr S must have a 
complaint that arises  from matters relevant to one or more of the relationships specified in 
DISP 2.7.6R.
One of those relationships is where  the consumer is or was a customer of the respondent 
firm.
The term customer is not defined in the DISP  rule. The term should therefore have its 
ordinary meaning  within the context in which the term is used. A consumer who is client of a 
regulated firm will be a customer in my view. 
The nature of the relationship of agent and principal  is that the agent acts on behalf  of the 
principal so as to affect the principals relationships with third parties.  So in the normal 
course of things when  someone deals with an agent (acting in that capacity) they are in 
effect dealing  with the principal. So in a situation  such as the present case, if the agent 
(acting in that capacity) agrees to give investment advice, and gives  that advice,  he is doing 
so on behalf of the principal, the regulated firm. And any person with whom a regulated firm 
agrees to give investment advice, and gives that advice, will be a client of the firm.
Investment advice can be given whether or not a formal  client agreement  has been entered 
into. Such a written  agreement is not what determines whether such  a person is a client. The 
issue is determined by whether the relevant service has been provided  by or on behalf of the 
regulated firm in the course of it carrying on regulated activity.
As I said in my provisional decision:
So when  a client was doing business with a registered individual  of Positive Solutions (acting  
in that capacity) they were doing business with Positive Solutions   they were a client of 
Positive Solutions.
The issue  of whether or not Mr S is a customer is bound  up with the issue  of whether or not 
advice was given  on behalf of Positive Solutions. If it was, Mr S is a customer of Positive 
Solutions.  
And whether or not advice was given on behalf  of Positive Solutions  whether the complaint 
is about advice  it was responsible for - was considered at length  in my provisional decision. 
It was my finding that advice was given while Mr H was purporting to act for Positive 
Solutions and that Mr H was acting  with apparent authority. This means Mr S was provided 
Ref: DRN65229854with a service in the course of Positive Solutions carrying  on a regulated  activity  and Mr H 
was a client of Positive Solutions. And so Mr S was a customer of Positive Solutions and he 
is an eligible complainant.
As mentioned, whether  or not there a documented agreement between  Mr S and Positive 
Solutions is not in itself determinative. Nor is the absence of documents  recording any 
advice. Whether or not advice was given  and if so in what  capacity must be decided  on the 
basis of all the evidence.  And my views  on the evidence  are set in my provisional  decision.
apparent authority
Positive Solutions says the question is not whether  it gave Mr H authority to transact a 
general class of acts.  The question is whether Positive Solutions gave Mr H authority in 
relation to this transaction.
I agree  that the ultimate question is whether there  was apparent  authority in relation to this 
transaction. But to answer that question, I think it is right for me to consider whether Positive 
Solutions placed Mr H in a position which would objectively  carry Positive  Solutions  
authority for Mr H to conduct business of a type he did in fact conduct.
I note that the case law does not say that apparent  authority  operates  only when a principal  
has represented that an agent has authority to carry out a specific act. Apparent  authority 
also operates where a principal has represented that its agent has its authority to carry out a 
more general class of acts. 
For example, Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer referred to a representation  that the agent 
has authority to enter on behalf of the principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of 
the apparent  authority. And in Armagas, Lord Keith said that in the commonly encountered  
case ostensible authority is general in character  arising when the agent  is placed in a 
position generally regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions  of the kind in 
question. 
In Hely-Hutchinson, Lord Denning said that people who see a managing director acting as a 
managing director  are entitled to assume  that he has the usual authority of a managing  
director.  I consider that the usual authority of a managing director  includes a wide variety  
of acts. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision I am satisfied that Positive Solutions 
represented to Mr S that Mr H had its authority  to carry out the acts which an independent 
financial adviser would usually have authority to do  including giving investment advice on 
behalf of Positive  Solutions. 
Positive Solutions did not specifically mention pension  transfers  or Harlequin in its 
representations, but that is not determinative. So too, and clearly so, is the point that Mr H 
did not have actual authority to give the advice he gave. Mr H had Positive  Solutions 
apparent authority to act on its behalf in recommending that Mr S transfer  pensions  to a 
SIPP and invest in the Harlequin  investment, because he had Positive Solutions more 
general apparent  authority to act on its behalf  in giving them  that kind of investment advice.
Ref: DRN65229855who was Mr H acting  for?
Positive Solutions position is that Mr H was acting on behalf  of another company, Tailor  
Made. In my provisional decision I considered  this point and concluded Mr H acted 
throughout on behalf of Positive Solutions.  
Positive Solutions says Mr H has confirmed he was acting for Tailor Made. Positive 
Solutions had previously referred  to the points  made  by Mr H and I referred to them in my 
provisional decision.  
It is the case that there is no recommendation letter on Positive Solutions note paper. But 
the absence of such a letter does not prove  either that no advice was given (as the adviser 
says) or that if any advice was given it cannot have been given on behalf of Positive 
Solutions.
While Mr H told Positive Solutions that he did not give advice, and only acted  as an 
introducer for Tailor  Made,  there is no evidence that supports this. There is no documentary  
evidence showing Mr H apparently acting on behalf  of Tailor Made. The only reference to 
Tailor Made  in the documents is on the Harlequin Property reservation form. It does show 
Tailor Made  was an agent. It does not clearly show Mr H acted for Tailor Made. 
And there is evidence that tends to contradict Mr Hs version of events.  I discussed  the 
evidence in my provisional decision and made the finding  that - contrary to Mr Hs version  of 
events  Mr H did advise  Mr S to transfer his pensions to a SIPP  to invest  in Harlequin  while  
purporting to be a Positive  Solutions  adviser.   
Positive Solutions representations as to the authority of Mr S
The points made by Positive Solutions  are largely  framed by its view that representations 
must be specific rather than general. I do not agree with that view.  
For example, Positive Solutions says procuring Mr Hs registration with the FSA is not a 
representation to Mr S. The rules  require such registration just as they require status  
disclosure and that Jacobs J found  in Anderson v Sense that a status  disclosure could 
never be a representation  and the same  conclusion must apply to the register. However the 
judges finding was that on the particular facts of that case, the status disclosure was not a 
representation of any kind to the effect  that [the agent] was running  the [Ponzi] scheme with 
the authority of Sense or as the agent of the Defendant  (emphasis added).  Financial 
advisers are not usually  authorised to run schemes  and that is the context in which the 
finding was made. 
Descriptions of an individuals status contained  in business stationery can, as the courts 
have found, be relevant  representations creating apparent authority. This was the finding of 
in Martin v Britannia Life, by Jonathan  Parker Js on apparent authority was based on the 
contents of a business card. His reasoning was as follows:
Mr and Mrs Martin   have to establish a representation made by LAS, which  was intended 
to be acted on and which was in fact acted  on by them, that Mr Sherman was authorised by 
LAS to give them financial advice concerning a remortgage  of The Brambles.
In my judgment the business card which Mr Sherman proffered at the outset of the meeting 
on 9 May 1991 was the clearest representation that he was authorised by LAS to give such 
financial advice. It may well be the case that, as Mr Burrell submitted, the unqualified use of 
Ref: DRN65229856the expression Financial Adviser on the business card would not have led a reasonable 
person to believe  that Mr Sherman was authorised to give financial  advice on matters wholly 
unconnected with the sale of insurance, but that is nothing to the point.  It plainly did 
represent, in my judgment, that Mr Sherman  was authorised to give advice in relation to the 
sale of insurance, including advice concerning associated or ancillary transactions: in other 
words, to give investment advice  in the sense in which  that term is used in the 1986 Act . 
In particular, it represented  that Mr Sherman was authorised by LAS to advise on the package 
of transactions which, in the event, he recommended.  
Jacobs J in Anderson  v Sense  applied Martin and endorsed the above approach. He said:
 As Martin shows, [ostensible  authority] requires a representation  that there was authority to 
give advice of the type that was given .
Obtaining approval  from the Regulator  for Mr H to advise Positive  Solutions  customers 
about investments  was part of the conduct  by which Positive Solutions held him out to the 
world in general as authorised to do that. 
Positive Solutions says if this amounts to a representation it would make Positive Solutions 
liable for anything said or done by Mr H relating to anything which might broadly amount to 
financial advice. Positive Solutions says this is an absurd proposition. But it is not what  I 
said or implied and the cases of Martin v Britannia  and Anderson  v Sense show  how such  
matters can be applied  (and limited) in practice.  
This is not a case like Anderson v Sense where many claimants had never heard of the 
principal so were not aware of any representations from it. It is Mr Ss claim that he knew 
Mr W as a Positive Solutions adviser  and he was introduced to Mr H by Mr W as a Positive 
Solutions adviser. And despite the lack of a prior relationship with Positive Solutions, and the 
absence of an engagement letter, there  is the use of other Positive Solutions stationery and 
business stamps some  of which will have  been seen by Mr S at the time. Positive Solutions 
placed Mr H in the position  which would  generally be regarded  as having  the authority to 
give the advice  he gave. It authorised Mr H to give investment advice. It arranged for him to 
be registered with FSA so he was authorised to perform the controlled function of giving 
investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions. Such representations are made to 
potential clients as well as to existing or to new formally engaged clients.     
I do not say in this case there was a holding  out that everything Mr H might do was 
authorised. But, to the extent that he gave  advice to Positive Solutions customers such as 
Mr S, about their pensions and investments  in their pensions this was the type of business  
he was held out as carrying on for it.  
It remains my finding that Positive Solutions did represent to Mr S through  its conduct that 
Mr H had its authority to act on its behalf in carrying on the activities complained  about.
Ref: DRN65229857reliance
Positive Solutions says there was no representation, so reliance is irrelevant. I disagree. It 
goes on to say that was no reliance.  I also disagree  for the reasons  set out in my provisional 
decision. As I have  mentioned, this is not a case like Anderson v Sense . Mr S did know  that 
Mr H was authorised to give investment advice on behalf of Positive  Solutions  and relied 
upon Positive Solutions representations by its conduct discussed in my provisional  decision 
and above. Mr S proceeded on the basis Mr H was acting  in every respect as an agent of 
Positive Solutions with authority from Positive Solutions so to act.
just that Positive  Solutions should bear the loss
 
The discussion of the justice of the case was not intended to be read as part of the test for 
apparent authority. It is a point the courts consider  as a check that they have reached the 
right conclusion. I regard  the test for apparent authority as being satisfied on the facts  in this 
complaint. The reference to the justice of the case was by way of such  a cross  check  and 
was included as the courts often include such an explanation and to be helpful  to the parties.
My views on this point  are unchanged   though  I should make it clear that my comment  
should be read as relating to the carrying on of the controlled function  in this case, ie to the 
circumstances of this complaint and Mr Ss losses from the advice he complains about not 
all possible  losses in any possible circumstance. 
fraud
Positive Solutions said the following when replying to my provisional decision:
Mr [H] may have been giving  investment advice and he may have filled in forms but these  
were activities which Positive Solution prohibited and which were fraudulent.

We also note that in terms of vicarious  liability it is clearly  insufficient that the principal put the 
agent in a position which gave him opportunity to behave fraudulently:  See the authorities 
summarised and applied in Frederick at [76].
Positive Solutions has not previously raised fraud as an issue in this complaint. And the 
above is all it has said.
Fraud is a serious allegation.  The more serious an allegation of misconduct the stronger  the 
evidence is required to be to establish on the balance  of probabilities that the misconduct 
occurred. In this case  there is not even a specific allegation of fraud and I cannot see that 
there is evidence on which to make a finding  of fraud.  
This is not a case in which  an adviser appropriated a customers  money for himself, nor is it 
a case in which the adviser recommended  that the customer invest in a fund managed by or 
controlled by the adviser himself. Instead,  this is simply a case in which a financial adviser 
recommended that a customer in effect  surrender existing funds and transfer the cash  to a 
SIPP to then reinvest into another investment. That is a very common activity for financial 
advisers. In this case the advice was careless.  It was negligent. It was in breach of common  
law duty of care. It was in breach of conduct rules obliging advisers to give suitable advice. 
The advice was not suitable for Mr S  but unsuitability does not necessarily imply fraud.  
And I make no finding that there has been fraud.
Ref: DRN65229858vicarious liability
I remain satisfied that Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr S complains 
about, for the reasons  I gave in my provisional  decision  though on re-reading my 
provisional decision I see a point I was trying  to make was not made  as clearly as I would 
like. 
Under the heading the stage two test the first sentence in the second  bullet point says:
If Positive Solutions is not vicariously liable  here, then Mr Ss ability to obtain compensation  
would depend on whether the Positive Solutions Partner he dealt with was an employee of 
Positive Solutions.
The above  does not really  help to introduce  the point I was trying  to make which is made in 
the rest of the paragraph - that in Cox the court suggested it would be unreasonable  and 
unfair for the claimants ability to receive compensation to depend on whether the relevant 
worker was an employee or not.  
Moving from that specific clarification to the issue more generally, I remain  of the view that 
the tests laid down by the Supreme Court in Cox and Mohamud are applicable. Those 
decisions make  it very clear that non-employment relationships can give rise to vicarious 
liability. The purpose  of the guidance contained in Cox is to define the criteria by which  a 
non-employment relationship can be judged as either capable  or incapable of giving rise to 
vicarious liability. In the present case, Mr Hs relationship  with Positive  Solutions  satisfies  
those criteria and had similarities to employment,  as I explain in my provisional decision.  It 
would seem very odd if that were to count for nothing just because he enjoyed  powers of an 
agent to contract  business. Many employees are given authority, as agent, to contract 
business on their employers behalf  and Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (paragraph 1-004) 
says that the status of an agent  will usually  be either that of employee  or independent  
contractor. So it cannot have been intended  that the test in Cox is disapplied whenever there 
is an agency. 
Positive Solutions has referred to paragraph  15 of Lord Reeds judgment in Cox. It says,
Lord Reed specifically stated that nothing in his judgment applied  to the law of principal and 
agent (paragraph 15). So properly understood, the law is that Cox is not relevant  to the 
present circumstances .
The argument seems  to be that Mr H is Positive Solutions agent,  which  is the opposite of 
Positive Solutions position in relation to the relevant advice. So, I take it that Positive  
Solutions position is that Mr H was not its agent, having no authority from it whether actual 
or apparent to give the relevant advice; but that I should not apply Cox, because he was its 
agent in other respects. That position seems  to me to be illogical  and probably wrong on its 
own terms.
Anyway, the basis for the argument seems to me to go well beyond what  Lord Reed actually  
said, which was:
15.  Vicarious liability in tort is imposed  upon a person in respect  of the act or omission of 
another individual, because of his relationship  with that individual, and the connection 
between that relationship and the act or omission in question. Leaving aside other areas of 
the law where vicarious liability can operate, such as partnership and agency (with which  this 
judgment is not concerned), the relationship is classically one of employment, and the 
Ref: DRN65229859connection is that the employee committed the act or omission in the course  of his 
employment: that is to say, within the field of activities assigned to him, as Lord Cullen put it in 
Central Motors  (Glasgow) Ltd v Cessnock Garage  and Motor Co 1925 SC 796 , 802, or, 
adapting the words of Diplock LJ in Ilkiw v Samuels  [1963] 1 WLR 991 , 1004, in the course of 
his job, considered broadly. That aspect  of vicarious liability is fully considered by Lord 
Toulson JSC in Mohamud  v Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016]  AC 677.
16.  It has however long been recognised  that a relationship can give rise to vicarious  liability 
even in the absence of a contract of employment
I think that Lord Reed  is there recognising that aside from cases where vicarious liability  is 
imposed because there is a relationship of, or having similar features to, employment (which  
the Cox case  considers), there exist categories of cases, such  as partnership and agency, 
where vicarious liability can be imposed on different bases  (which the Cox case  does  not 
consider).   I dont think that he can be taken to have  said that no principal can ever be 
vicariously liable for an agent under Cox, even though their relationship fulfils  the Cox and 
Mohamud criteria for such liability. 
I recognise in my provisional  decision that Cox and Mohamud dont apply to torts of 
dishonesty, but I am not aware of any case which holds that they dont apply whenever the 
defendant has given the wrongdoer any authority  to act as its agent.  For the reasons I have 
given above I would  not expect the courts to arrive at such  a conclusion.  
I also want to make clear that I do not say that the fact Positive Solutions put Mr H in a 
position which gave  him the opportunity to make errors is in itself sufficient to make Positive 
Solutions vicariously liable for his conduct.  But I am saying that, after taking  the whole of the 
evidence into account, I am satisfied  that Positive  Solutions is vicariously liable for the 
actions of Mr H in this complaint.
I accept that Mr H advised Mr S without  Positive Solutions knowledge or authority. But I do 
not agree  that he was advising in the context of a recognisably independent  business   
Tailor Made.  The evidence does  not show that Mr H was acting for Tailor Made. The 
documentary evidence  shows  Mr H, while seemingly acting for Positive Solutions, 
recommended the transfer of pensions to a SIPP to invest in Harlequin  for whom Tailor 
Made acted  as agent.   
If Mr Hs conduct  had been fraudulent, then much of the case  law I have  quoted in relation  to 
vicarious liability would not apply. But for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think it was 
fraudulent. And even  if it was, or even if the test in Cox does not apply for some other 
reason, Positive  Solutions would still be responsible for the acts complained of by reason of 
apparent authority and statutory responsibility.
statutory responsibility under section 150 FSMA
Taking everything into account,  Im still satisfied section 150 FSMA provides an alternative 
route by which  Positive Solutions is responsible. This is a statutory responsibility, and Im not 
persuaded that (if Im wrong about  apparent authority) the absence of actual or apparent 
authority would mean that responsibility  wouldnt arise under section 150 FSMA:
Section 150 FSMA is a consumer-protecting  provision relating to regulatory rules 
which were themselves created to protect consumers. Together they create a 
statutory right to damages for breaches of the Regulators rules and this can apply 
Ref: DRN652298510even where theres  no relationship between the firm and the consumer, so I would 
not expect the absence  of apparent authority  to be decisive.
Instead the way FSMA  is framed and has been  interpreted by the Regulator seems  
to analyse the question  of a firms responsibility  for its personnel/contractors (if they 
arent appointed  representatives)  according  to the question of whose  business  is 
being carried on  the principals or the individuals. This is essentially very similar to 
the Cox v Ministry of Justice test. Its not done  according to the law of 
agency/apparent authority. 
The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) is current Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) guidance which directly addresses  the question  of regulatory responsibility  for 
an authorised persons delegated  activities. It deals with the question of whether a 
delegated activity is carried on for regulatory purposes by an employer/principal or by 
their employee/agent. It explains that employees and agents wont breach  the 
general prohibition  if the employee/agent is doing  no more than carrying  on the 
business of their employer/principal   as opposed  to carrying  on their own business. 
And it describes  relevant factors for deciding whose business is being carried  on 
(PERG 2.3.5-2.3.7).  
FSA rules and now FCA rules  control how firms carry on regulated  and other 
activities, including delegated activities carried on by the firm. Deciding whether a 
firm has breached a rule (including  for section 150 FSMA  purposes) involves the 
same question  as the PERG guidance  whether it was the firm which was carrying  
on the relevant  activity  as part of its business, as opposed  to a delegate carrying on 
the activity as part of its own business.
So the relevant question  under section 150 FSMA  is which  partys business  (i.e. 
Positive Solutions or Mr Hs) was being carried  on. That question is similar to the test 
in Cox v Ministry of Justice but it isnt limited by whether there  was actual  or 
ostensible authority. 
To help understand the test, the FCA guidance  explains how it applies, as an 
example, in the provision of home credit. This is a regulated business in which large 
firms often deal with their customers through self-employed  agents,  who call on 
customers at their homes to make  loans and collect payments on which they earn 
commission. PERG 2.3.11 states:
Although the overall relationship between a home collected credit provider (the 
principal firm) and a person providing the services(the individual) will need to be 
taken into account, meeting  the following  criteria  is likely to mean  that the individual is 
carrying on the business of the principal firm (as its agent)  and not his own, meaning 
that the individual does not require authorisation or to be exempt:
(1)the principal firm appoints the individual as an agent;
(2)the individual only works for one principal firm;
(3)the principal firm has a permission  from the FCA for every activity  the 
individual is carrying on for which the principal firm would need 
permission if it was carrying on the activity itself;
Ref: DRN652298511(4)the contract sets out effective measures for the principal firm to control 
the individual;
(6)the principal firm accepts full responsibility for the conduct  of the 
individual when the individual  is acting on the principal firms behalf in the 
course of its business; and
(7)the individual makes  clear to customers that it is representing a principal 
firm as its agent and the name of that principal firm.
The relationship described in PERG  2.3.11  has a lot of similarities to the relationship 
between Mr H and Positive  Solutions:
oPositive Solutions had appointed Mr H as an agent.
oThe FCA register suggests  Mr H wasnt an approved person or appointed 
representative for any other firm at the relevant time.
oPositive Solutions had permission  for the activities carried on by Mr H that 
needed permission.
oThe agreement between Positive Solutions  and Mr H set out a number of 
measures for Positive Solutions to control Mr H.
oClause 2.4 of the agreement between Positive  Solutions  and Mr H said:
The Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and representations 
of the Registered  Individual in the course of carrying out the business of the 
Agency hereby created, or in the course of performance of the duties hereby 
contracted.
oIm satisfied  Mr H caused Mr S to believe  he was representing  Positive 
Solutions through his words and conduct  such as the use of Positive 
Solutions stationery  and stamp and the completing of the SIPP  application 
form on which he referred to Positive  Solutions  as the financial adviser.  
So, looking  at whose  business Mr H was carrying on in this case  when he dealt with Mr S, I 
still think it was Positive  Solutions business and not his own or Tailor Mades. And I think my 
finding that Positive Solutions is liable under section 150 FSMA for the acts complained 
about is in line with how FSMA and the rules are intended to operate.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that under section 150 FSMA Positive Solutions is 
responsible for the acts complained of.
suitability for determination by an ombudsman
When Mr S referred his complaint to the ombudsman service, our rules said (at DISP 
3.3.4R):
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits  if [she] considers 
that:  
(10) it would  be more suitable for the subject matter of the complaint to be dealt with by a 
court, arbitration or another complaints scheme.
Ref: DRN652298512I acknowledge that Positive Solutions  believes that it would be more suitable for the subject 
matter of this complaint  to be dealt with by a court. But I do not agree.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service routinely  deals  with disputes about whether a 
respondent firm is responsible for the acts a consumer has complained about. Some  of 
those disputes  are more  complex than others, and Positive Solutions is right to say that this 
particular complaint concerns a developing area of law. But I see no reason why that 
prevents me from considering the matter.
Positive Solutions has suggested that it would be impossible for me to make fair findings  on 
the issue of reliance without disclosure. But it would be very unusual for any party  to have 
contemporaneous documents which identified the statements on which they relied,  and so I 
dont think the courts power to order disclosure of documents would be of any assistance 
here. In any event, I have  no reason to suspect  that either of the parties  have failed to 
disclose relevant evidence.
Overall, I am satisfied that I can resolve  this complaint justly, fairly, and within my 
jurisdiction. I therefore decline to exercise my discretion to dismiss this complaint.
oral hearing
Our rules allow for the possibility of an oral hearing  (at DISP  3.5.5R):
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a 
hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties to take part in a 
hearing.
Positive Solutions hasnt  requested a hearing as such in this complaint but Im aware it has 
on other similar complaints. Ive therefore  thought  about this point in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied I can fairly determine the matter without a 
hearing. In particular, I note:
The events complained of happened  around ten years ago and memories inevitably 
fade. Im satisfied I can reach  a fair outcome using  all the available evidence and Im 
not persuaded hearing oral evidence  would assist me.
Positive Solutions clearly believes Ive misunderstood the law and its set out its 
position clearly in writing.
The Court  of Appeal has adopted a very flexible  approach to whats fair in this 
context (Financial Ombudsman Service v Heather  Moor & Edgecomb Ltd [2008] 
EWCA Civ 643).
merits
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Positive Solutions seems  to suggest that Mr S had a disregard for normal processes and 
that this in turn means he has or is likely to have a high tolerance of investment risk. I do not 
agree.  
Ref: DRN652298513A consumers willingness  to tolerate a level of informality  in the advice process does not 
mean that an investment recommended under such a process  will necessarily be suitable  for 
them. The suitability of the investment for the consumer depends on factors such as 
whether:
The investment  meets  the consumers investment objectives.
The consumer is able financially to bear the risks of the investment.
The consumer has the necessary  investment experience  and knowledge in order 
to understand  the risks involved.
It remains my view that the advice was unsuitable for Mr S as set out in my provisional 
decision. It also remains my view that with suitable  advice  Mr S would not have moved his 
pensions. 
Positive Solutions says it requires evidence that Mr S lost the whole of the investment and 
received no returns from it. My conclusion that Mr S has lost the whole of the investment  and 
received no returns from it is based  on my knowledge of these investments and the fact 
building work  was never completed.
The problems with Harlequin are well publicised. I think its highly unlikely Mr S has received 
any returns or will receive a return. 
Whether Mr S has or has not suffered a total loss, this will be accounted  for in the redress 
formula below.
fair compensation
Im satisfied that a fair outcome would be for Positive Solutions  to put Mr S, as far as 
possible, into the position he would  now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Im satisfied its 
most likely he wouldnt  have moved  his pensions if everything had happened  as it should 
have.
Where I uphold  a complaint (in full or part), I can make a money award requiring a financial 
business to pay compensation up to a maximum financial effect of £150,000,  plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate.  If I consider that fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I may recommend the financial business  to pay the balance.
This recommendation will not be part of my determination or award. It will not bind the 
financial business. It would be unlikely that Mr S could accept my decision and go to court  to 
ask for the balance.  He may want  to consider getting independent advice before deciding  
whether to accept  my decision.
In this case the advice was to transfer  an occupational pension and two personal pensions 
to the SIPP  to invest in Harlequin. And in my provisional decision I said Positive Solutions 
should put things right using the revised methodology issued by the FCA in October  2017.  
(Though I did not make it completely clear that I was referring to the regulators pension  
review guidance  as updated  by the FCA in 2017.)  And that remains my view in relation to 
Mr Ss pensions  covered  by that guidance but I understand that will only be the occupational 
pension and not the personal pensions.
So, in relation to Mr Ss pension(s) covered  by the guidance, to compensate  Mr S fairly 
Positive Solutions should:
Ref: DRN652298514Undertake a redress calculation in line with the Regulators pension review  guidance  
as updated by the FCA in October  2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and use the 
most recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. The value of 
the Harlequin investment should  be assumed to be nil. In accordance  with the 
Regulators expectations, this calculation should be undertaken  or submitted to an 
appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of 
the decision.
If Positive Solutions needs to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions  (DWP)  
to obtain Mr Cs contribution history  to the State  Earnings Related  Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P) it should do so. These details should then be used to include a 
SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of 
leaving the occupational scheme  on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates  a loss, the compensation should if possible 
be paid into one of Mr Ss pension plans. The payment should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into a 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If its unable to pay the total amount  into Mr Ss SIPP, Positive  Solutions  should pay 
the compensation as a cash sum to Mr S. But had it been  possible to pay into the 
SIPP, it would have  provided a taxable income. So the total amount should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr Ss marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. For example, if Mr S is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional 
allowance would  equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current  
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S had been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
notional allowance  should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
In relation to Mr Ss pension(s) not covered by the above guidance methodology, to 
compensate Mr S fairly,  Positive  Solutions  must:
1. Obtain the notional transfer values of Mr Ss transferred pensions  as at the date of my 
final decision  had they not been transferred  to the SIPP.  
Positive Solutions should ask those pension providers to calculate the notional  transfer  
values they would have applied as at the date of this decision had Mr S not transferred his 
pensions but instead remained invested  in those pensions.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional values then the FTSE  WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index should be used instead. That is a mixed index that is likely to be 
a reasonable proxy  for the type of return that could have been achieved from pension  funds 
with the original providers or reasonable alternatives.  But, as mentioned, this is a way of 
dealing with any difficulties not because I say the pensions would or should have been 
invested in, or exactly in line with, that index.
2. Obtain the notional transfer value of the appropriate proportion of Mr Ss SIPP 
(attributable to the pensions transferred to it on Positive Solutions advice) at the date of my 
final decision.
Ref: DRN652298515This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. Credit  should not be given  in the calculation for the value in the pension 
attributable to the third pension transferred into the SIPP  later.
3. And then pay an amount into Mr Ss SIPP so that the transfer  values are increased by the 
amount calculated in (2). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
If its unable to pay the total amount  into Mr Ss SIPP, Positive  Solutions  should pay the 
compensation as a cash sum to Mr S. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. So the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  The notional allowance  should be 
calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax at retirement. For example, if Mr S is a basic  rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would equate  to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S had been able to take a 
tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should  be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Further, in relation to the redress generally:
Had Positive Solutions given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP. Its not fair 
if Mr S has to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, Positive Solutions should take over the Harlequin investment to allow  the SIPP  to be 
closed. This is the fairest way of putting  Mr S back in the position he would  have been  in. But 
as I understand  it, the ownership  of the Harlequin  investment cant  currently  be transferred. 
Its likely  that will change at some point,  but I dont know when that will be  there are a 
number of uncertainties.
So, to provide certainty to both parties,  I think its fair that Positive Solutions pays 
Mr S an upfront lump  sum equivalent  to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the 
previous years fees) or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years.  
This should provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be 
closed. Subject to what I say about maximum awards below, in return  for the compensation set out 
above, Positive Solutions may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to give it the net amount 
of any payment he may receive from the investment in that five year period, as well as any 
other payment he may receive from any party as a result of the investment. That undertaking 
should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount they may receive. Positive  
Solutions will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr S to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation  awarded by my decision may be 
dependent upon provision  of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Positive Solutions  wants to keep the SIPP  open,  and to maintain an 
undertaking for any future  payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any further 
future SIPP fees. If Positive  Solutions fails to pay the SIPP  fees, Mr S should then have the 
option of trying to cancel  the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed.
Mr S will have been caused significant  upset  by the events this complaint relates  to, and the 
Ref: DRN652298516loss of a significant part of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to 
compensate for that upset.
If Positive Solutions doesnt pay the compensation within 90 days of being  informed  that 
Mr C has accepted my decision, interest,  at the rate of 8% simple a year should be added 
from the date of my decision to the date of payment. But its possible that data gathering for 
a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day 
period allowed for settlement  and so any period of time where the only outstanding item 
required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period 
in which  interest wont  apply.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Positive  Solutions  deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr S how much  has been taken off. Positive  Solutions  should 
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Mr Ss Harlequin investment was a deposit. There are therefore more  parts  of the contract 
for the remaining purchase price of the property that havent  been paid yet. No loss has 
been suffered  yet for these  parts  of the contract, so it isnt being compensated for here. But 
the loss may still occur. If the property is completed, Harlequin could still require those 
payments to be made. I think its unlikely there  will be a further loss. But Mr S needs to 
understand that this is possible,  and he wont  be able to bring a further complaint to us if the 
contract is called  upon.
my final decision
determination and award: my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint against  
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd and require Positive  Solutions  (Financial 
Services) Ltd to carry out the steps  specified in the fair compensation section above  up to 
a maximum financial effect of £150,000, plus any interest.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd 
accepts the recommendation to pay the full loss as calculated above, it should have the 
option of taking the undertaking referred to above.  If the loss exceeds £150,000 and Positive 
Solutions (Financial  Services) Ltd does not accept  the recommendation to pay the full 
amount, any undertaking should allow Mr S to retain all rights  to the difference between  
£150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
recommendation: if the financial effect  of the award  exceeds £150,000, I recommend that 
Positive Solutions (Financial Services)  Ltd still carry out in full the steps Ive specified  plus 
pay interest on the full fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN652298517anonymised version  of provisional decision
summary of complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that Positive Solutions (Financial  Services) Limited gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP)  in order to invest in an overseas 
property investment scheme with Harlequin  Property. That scheme has failed and Mr S has lost the 
pension money he invested.   
  
background to complaint
This complaint relates to events in 2010. The allegation is that Mr S was advised by Mr H on behalf of 
Positive Solutions.
The business  model followed by Positive Solutions is that it is an independent financial adviser firm 
authorised by the Financial  Services Authority (FSA) (later the Financial Conduct Authority). It gave 
advice through registered  individuals who were referred to as partners.  The partners were  self-
employed agents of Positive Solutions not employees.  Nor were partners  appointed representatives  
under s.39 of the Financial  Services  and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
So when a client was doing  business with a registered individual of Positive Solutions (acting  in that 
capacity) they were doing  business  with Positive Solutions  they were  a client of Positive Solutions.
Mr S says he was introduced  to Mr H by a different adviser at Positive  Solutions, Mr W.  
Mr W had recently dealt with a re-mortgage for Mr and Mrs S. Mr S says Mr W said that Mr H also 
worked for Positive  Solutions and could  help with the investment of his frozen pensions. Mr S says he 
was contacted by Mr H and he advised him to invest in Harlequin. The investment was a £190,000 
purchase of an apartment in a Harlequin  investment scheme in the Dominican Republic  with an initial  
deposit of £57,000 and further payments due as the building works progressed.  
Mr S says Mr H invited him to a seminar which he attended with Mr H and Mr W. At that seminar the 
CEO of Harlequin and others gave presentations. Mr S says Mr H thought  the investment was a great 
opportunity for Mr S and advised him to invest in Harlequin and transfer his pensions  to a SIPP with 
Guardian in order to so.
In April 2010  Mr S applied for a SIPP with Guardian. Section 11 of the application form records details 
of the applicants  financial adviser. This was recorded as Positive Solutions with the contact named as 
Mr H and Mr W. And this part of the form was stamped with 
Mr Hs details  at Positive Solutions and a separate stamp  with Positive Solutions head office address.
Section 14 of the Guardian form was to record the intended activity  of the SIPP and the following  was 
entered:
PURCHASE OF OVERSEAS COMMERCIAL  PROPERTY (HARLEQUIN)
The application included an Identity Verification document that was completed by 
Mr H and stamped  with a Positive Solutions stamp.
On 20 April 2010 Mr H, using Positive Solutions note paper, wrote  to Guardian with the completed 
application form for the SIPP. His letter included:
[Mr S] is a member  of [name  given] Scheme which is being  wound-up by Mercers via a 
Deferred Annuity  with Prudential which has a surrender value of just over £66,000.
When transferred he wishes to buy a Harlequin Property, but until the money is transferred 
we cant determine which type as at present he does not have sufficient resources to pay the 
Reservation Fee.
Ref: DRN652298518There is a document in amongst this that requires  some input  from yourselves  confirming 
that you are able to accept  the transfer etc.
Once the money has moved over I will need a mandate for the Reservation Fee and the 
balance of deposit, once  Contracts arrive. I suspect we will be going 30/70 SIPP/Personal on 
this.
Finally, he also has 2 other pension arrangements with Winterthur  & Colonial Mutual (which is 
also Winterthur now)  and I am in the process of gathering the information  to switch these  
across. We expect the transfers to add another £15000 or so
As part of the application process  Guardian required  Mr S to complete  a form entitled Harlequin 
Property Questionnaire & Guidance Notes. That form was countersigned by 
Mr H as Mr Ss adviser. He stamped the form with a stamp that said Positive  Solutions and Mr Hs 
Positive Solutions business address.
That completed form was returned to Guardian by Mr H by letter  using Positive Solutions note paper 
dated 24 May 2010. That letter included:
[Mr S]  Harlequin Application
Please find enclosed a SIPP Property Questionnaire and mandate for payment  in respect of 
the above.  I am assuming  that you have now received the money from Prudential  and can 
send the Reservation Fee of £1000. There is to be a price increase on Tuesday 1 June 2010,  
which I am hoping we can avoid!
Would you please be kind enough to e-mail  me once  the money has been sent so I can warn 
my contact at Harlequin  to look out for it. 
The Harlequin  Property  Questionnaire recorded:
The property investment  was on the Two River development in the Dominican Republic
The total purchase  price  was £190,000.
The ownership was expected to be split 30% in the SIPP and 70 outside the SIPP.
£57,000 was to be paid out of the SIPP  for the investment.
Money received into the SIPP was used for the Harlequin investment in the SIPP. This was after Mr S 
had signed the Harlequin reservation form.    
On the reservation form signed by Mr S, immediately  under the place signed  by Mr S is a box that 
includes:
Agent name to Invoice and Pay: Marcus James/Tailor Made Agent: 1746 [the words  in 
bold were printed in bold on the form]
Contact Name: [Mr H name and phone number] [this was completed by hand]
Mr S says he was not given  any in information regarding  Tailor Made and it was never  discussed with 
him. He says as far as he was concerned Mr H and Mr W both worked  for Positive Solutions and 
stamped all documentation as such.  
In August 2010 Mr H sent, using Positive Solutions note paper,  discharge forms for the transfer of 
benefits held by Winterthur to Guardian. That suggests the funds  were transferred  soon after.  On 24 
Ref: DRN652298519September Guardian wrote to Mr H at Positive Solutions head office address to say the transfers 
from previous arrangements had been received.
Later Harlequin got into difficulties and the investment failed. Mr S complained to Positive  Solutions 
and it did not uphold his complaint which he then referred to the ombudsman  service.
Positive Solutions thinks the ombudsman service cannot consider Mr Ss complaint. It says Mr H was 
acting outside his authority  from it, that he was not acting for Positive Solutions if he gave the alleged 
advice. Positive Solutions says:
Mr H was required to hand over a terms of business agreement and confirm  his advice in 
writing when acting from Positive Solutions. He did not do so in this case.
There is no documentary evidence  to show that advice was given to Mr S by 
Mr H on behalf of Positive Solutions.
Mr H was not an authorised pension  transfer specialist. He was not therefore authorised to 
advise on pension transfers. Only authorised pensions  specialists could give such advice  and 
not all whole of market  IFAs.
There is no evidence that Positive Solutions represented to Mr S that he was authorised to 
give the alleged  advice to him.
Positive Solutions received no commission for the alleged advice.
Positive Solutions has no record of Mr S ever being its client. Mr S is not therefore eligible to 
make a complaint against Positive  Solutions. 
my provisional  findings  - jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments in order to decide  whether  the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can consider Mr Ss complaint. 
the basis for deciding jurisdiction:
I must decide whether  we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint on the basis of our jurisdiction 
rules (referred to as the DISP rules), including  the relevant law they are based on or incorporate,  
based on the relevant facts  of the complaint which I must decide on the balance of probability  when in 
dispute.  
I cannot decide  the issue on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances. That is the basis on which  the merits of complaint will be determined if we have 
jurisdiction to consider it.
the compulsory jurisdiction
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can consider a complaint under  its compulsory jurisdiction if that 
complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm  in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R). Positive Solutions is a firm under our rules, and it does 
not dispute that. 
As DISP  2.3.3G explains, complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for 
which the firm  is responsible (including  business of any appointed representative  or agent for 
which the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether this complaint can be 
considered under the compulsory jurisdiction of this service:  
Ref: DRN6522985201.Were the acts about  which  Mr S complains done in the carrying on of a regulated activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd responsible  for those acts?  
the regulatory background
I have taken into account the FSMA, Financial  Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  
Order 2001 (the RAO), and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook section of the FSA Handbook  
(COBS).
regulated activities
An activity is a regulated activity if it is an activity of a specified kind that is carried  on by way of 
business and relates to an investment of a specified kind, unless otherwise specified (section 22, 
FSMA).
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the RAO and include advising on the merits of buying or 
selling a particular  investment which  is a security or a relevant investment (article 53 RAO),  and 
making arrangements for another  person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).  
the general  prohibition
Section 19 of FSMA says that a person may not carry on a regulated activity in the UK, or purport to 
do so, unless they are either an authorised  person or an exempt person. 
This is known as the general prohibition.
At the time of the events complained about,  Positive Solutions  was an authorised person (also 
referred to as a firm  in regulators  rules).  That means it could carry  out regulated activities without 
being in breach  of the general prohibition.
Mr H was neither an authorised persons nor exempt from authorisation.  That means  that if Mr H had 
carried out a regulated activity on his own behalf by way of business,  he would have been in breach 
of the general  prohibition.  
the approved  persons  regime
The approved persons regime  is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect  consumers by 
ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry  out certain  functions within the 
financial services industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1) An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure that no person  performs 
a controlled function under  an arrangement entered into by A in relation to the carrying on by 
A of a regulated activity,  unless the Authority approves the performance by that person of the 
controlled function  to which the arrangement relates.
Positive Solutions was an authorised person. The act of advising on investments was a controlled 
function. 
Positive Solutions arranged for Mr H to be approved  by the FSA to perform the controlled functions 
CF 22 Investment Adviser (Trainee)  , CF 21 Investment Adviser  and CF30 Customer  [between 
2004 and 2011] in relation  to regulated  activities carried  on by Positive  Solutions. (CF30 is the 
function of advising  on investments.) 
Ref: DRN652298521The approved persons regime  does not depend on an individuals  employment  status. Employees  can 
be approved  persons,  as can non-employees like Mr H.  
breach of statutory duty
At the relevant time, section 150(1) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule is actionable at the suit of a private person  
who suffers loss as a result  of the contravention, subject  to the defences and other incidents 
applying to actions for breach of statutory duty. 
Rights of action under section 150(1) of FSMA were only available in relation to contravention of 
specific rules made by the FSA under FSMA. 
One such  rule in place at the time of the events Mr S complains about was COBS  9.2.1(1)R, which 
said:
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation  is suitable  
for its client.
Mr S was a private person  under section  150(1)  of FSMA and private  customers  under  COB 5.3.5R. 
Broadly, those  terms covered all natural persons   subject  to some exceptions. I am satisfied that 
none of the exceptions to general position applied to Mr S  he was not a firm, and he was not 
carrying out any regulated activities by way of business. He was simply an ordinary consumer.
That means that if Mr S suffered a loss as a result  of a rule breached by Positive Solutions,  he would  
have a right of action against  Positive Solutions for breach of statutory duty. He would have no such  
right against  Mr H, because he was not a firm.
what is the complaint?
In October 2014 solicitors  acting for Mr S wrote  to Positive Solutions.  Their letter included:
Basis of Claim
Our client was advised  by you to transfer various  pensions  to a SIPP to then invest  in 
Harlequin.
Suitability 
1.There is no assessment  of the suitability  of the Harlequin property for our client.
2.There is no assessment  of the risks of the Harlequin  investment.
3.If the advice were suitable (which we believe it is not), the fund is over exposed  to this 
type of investment in any event.
4.The benefits of the ceding scheme have not been replaced.
Positive Solutions did not uphold  the complaint and so it was referred  to the ombudsman  service. 
In my view the complaint  is therefore about the suitability  of advice  to transfer existing pensions  to a 
SIPP in order to invest in the Harlequin  Property investment.  
were the acts Mr S complains about done in the carrying on of a regulated  activity?
As I understand it Positive Solutions does not deny that a regulated activity took place. It objects to 
my consideration of this complaint because  it says it was not responsible for any advice  Mr S received 
 not because  it says he did not receive  advice  at all. But I include this point,  for completeness. 
Ref: DRN652298522A SIPP is personal pension. Transferring existing pensions to a SIPP (even if the pensions are 
occupational pensions) is regulated investment  advice. So too is advice on investing  the funds  within 
a SIPP. Arranging those deals is also a regulated activity.
was Positive Solutions  responsible for the acts Mr S complains about?
Positive Solutions position  is that Mr H was its agent.  But that he was not authorised to:
advise on the SIPP as it was not an approved  product
advise on Harlequin as it was not an approved  product
advise on the transfer of occupational  pensions  as he was not an authorised pension transfer 
specialist.
Positive Solutions position is that the adviser was only authorised  to introduce new approved  
contracts.
Positive Solutions has also said:
The adviser has previously  informed us that he made it very clear to clients,  that he was 
personally unable to provide any advice on this type of investment and that there was no 
regulated sales process at Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd which  would 
accommodate this type of business. He furthermore informed the client that it was unlikely 
that an investment within this environment  would [be] covered by the FSCS and highlighted 
that he was only able to act as an Introducer via company entitled Overseas Property 
Angels who in turn acted  as a conduit to Tailor-Made Alternative Investments  who arranged 
the proposed  property purchase.
So Positive Solutions does therefore seem to dispute that there was any advice to invest  in Harlequin. 
It is not clear that it disputes  that any advice was given to transfer the pensions to a SIPP.
Mr Ss position is that he was advised by Mr H on behalf of Positive  Solutions to invest his pension 
funds in Harlequin  and to transfer  his pensions to a Guardian SIPP in order to do it. 
Mr S says he was referred to Mr H by Mr W for pension investment  advice. He says Mr H advised him 
to invest  his pension in Harlequin and to transfer his pensions to a Guardian SIPP in order to do so.
It is the case that there is no documentary evidence  recording such  advice.   
There is however  documentary evidence  to show  Mr H was involved  in the application for the SIPP 
and the transfer of pensions to the SIPP and the investment in Harlequin. And the evidence is clear  in 
relation to the SIPP application that Mr H arranged  that application while purporting to act for as a 
Positive Solutions adviser. 
It is also clear that he arranged the transfer of pensions to the SIPP while purporting to act as a 
Positive Solution Partner.   
And it is clear that the application for the Harlequin  investment was all part of the same  transaction  as 
the SIPP  application and the pension  transfers.
I note that Mr H has said that he made it clear that he was unable  to advise on Harlequin and that he 
was acting  as an introducer for Tailor Made. However I have seen evidence in another complaint 
about Mr H which does tend to contradict  this point and show that Mr H did refer to Positive Solutions 
having special discounts  for Harlequin investments. 
There is a reference to Tailor Made on the Harlequin  Reservation form but that does not show Mr H 
made it clear he was acting for Tailor  Made  not Positive  Solutions.
Ref: DRN652298523And there is the general point that Mr S does not seem to be an experienced or knowledgeable 
investor who would give instructions to open  a SIPP and transfer his pensions  to it without being 
advised to do so by a financial adviser.   
So on balance it is my finding that Mr H advised Mr S to invest  his pension in Harlequin  and to open a 
SIPP to do so, while  purporting to be a Positive Solutions financial adviser.
Positive Solutions  says the agent was not authorised to give such advice on its behalf
The finding that Mr H gave the disputed advice is not the end of the matter. Positive  Solutions point is 
that if Mr H did give advice he was not doing so in his capacity as a registered individual (or agent) of 
Positive Solutions.
what was the adviser authorised to do by Positive Solutions
Agency is a relationship  between  two parties where  they agree  that one will act on behalf of the other 
so as to affect its relations with third parties.  The one on whose behalf  acts are to be done is called 
the principal. The one who is to act is called the agent. In other words  the principal authorises the 
agent to act on its behalf.   
The creation of that authority can take a number of forms. And it is usual for the authority to be limited 
in nature.
The law recognises different forms of agency. 
In this case there is a written  agency  agreement which  gives express  actual authority  to 
Mr H.
It is the case that an agent  also has implied authority to do what is necessary  for, or ordinarily  
incidental to, the effective execution of his express authority.
actual authority
Paragraph 2.1 of the agency  agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr H said:
The company hereby  appoints  the Registered Individual  as its Registered Individual  for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for the new Contracts, for submission to 
the Institutions specified by the Registered Individual and approved by the Company.
Contracts is defined as:
The Contracts  for the products entered into or to be entered into, by the client, with the 
Institutions.
And Institution is defined as: 
Any insurance  or assurance company, life office, unit trust manager, fund manager, 
stockbroker, building  society, bank, finance house or other financial  institution.
Taken in isolation paragraph 2.1 seems to say the agent is only appointed to introduce applications  
for new contracts for Positive Solutions approved products.  
However the agency  agreement  is a contract and, as always, the whole  contract  has to be considered 
in order to interpret its meaning. Other relevant or potentially relevant clauses include:
Paragraph 2.4:
Ref: DRN652298524The relationship between the Company and the Registered Individual  shall be strictly that of 
principal and Registered Individual and not in any way that of employer and employee. The 
Company shall be responsible for acts, omissions and representations of the Registered 
Individual in the course of carrying out the business of the Agency hereby created, or in the 
course of performance  of duties hereby  contracted,  but only to the extent that it would be 
responsible at common law or by virtue of any statutory enactment  or regulation, or by virtue 
of the Rules of any organisation (including  FSA) of which the Company is member  for the 
time being. In particular, the Company shall not be bound by acts of the Registered Individual  
which exceed  the authority granted under the provision  of the Agreement or by fraudulent  
acts of the Registered Individual  or the Registered Individuals staff.
Paragraph 3.1:
This clause required a Registered Individual  to be registered with the FSA. 
Paragraph 4.3:
This required the Registered Individual  to conduct  business on Positive  Solutions terms of 
business. 
Paragraph 10.1:
This clause required the Registered  Individual to conduct himself in adherence  to the FSA 
rules.
Paragraph 10.4:
This clause prohibited the Registered Induvial from procuring persons  to enter into agreement 
otherwise than through Positive Solutions agency.
 
Paragraph 10.7:
Any act or omission of the Registered Individual  shall be treated  as an act or omission of the 
Company. It is therefore imperative  that the Registered Individual adheres to the strict rules 
laid down by the FSA and the Companys procedures manuals.
Paragraph 14:
Under this section the Registered  Individual agreed to indemnify Positive Solutions if it 
incurred and claims  or liability in respect of the Registered Individuals acts or omissions. 
So amongst other things,  its the case that the agent is appointed to do business with clients in 
accordance with Positive Solutions terms of business  and the registered individual is required to carry  
on the business in accordance with the FSAs rules and Positive Solutions procedures manual. 
As mentioned  above, at the time of the events complained about in this case, as required by 
paragraph 3.1 of the Agency  agreement Mr H was registered on the FSA register. It showed that he 
was approved  to perform  the controlled  function CF30  Customer with Positive  Solutions from 2007 
to 2011. 
The Positive  Solutions Compliance manual recorded that Positive Solutions was authorised to advise 
on investments and pension transfers  (amongst  other things).   
It is therefore  clear to me, taking all the above into account, that  subject to conditions  
Mr H was appointed to advise on investments on behalf of Positive Solution and not just to introduce 
applications for new policies.
Ref: DRN652298525Registered individuals such as Mr H were appointed as, and held out by Positive  Solutions as, 
independent financial  advisers able to advise  on investments as authorised and regulated by the FSA. 
That advice process is, and is required  to be, more  than just a sales  job.  
Advising a person  in their capacity as an investor or potential investor  on the merits  of their buying  or 
selling an investment  covered by the FSMA 2000 is a regulated  activity under Article 53 of the 
Regulated Activities Order 2000.
Agreeing to carry on certain  regulated  activities including  advising on investments  is itself a regulated 
activity (under  Article  64).
And arranging deals in investments is a regulated activity under Article 25.
Carrying on such regulated activities by way of business is a criminal offence  unless the person doing  
so is authorised (or exempt  but that is not relevant  here). Positive  Solutions was authorised by the 
FSA to carry on all of those activities at the time of the disputed advice.  And it was subject to the 
FSAs rules when carrying on those activities.
Without going  into too much  detail giving compliant  investment  advice involves  getting  to know a 
client and reviewing  their financial position, their objectives, attitude to risk etc and giving  advice that 
is suitable to those  circumstances.  In broad  terms this process is set out in COBS 9.2 and the Positive 
Solutions Compliance Manual and Pensions Handbook. And it might for example  lead to advice not to 
invest into a Contract, or advice to surrender an existing  investment that is not a Contract.  And 
(depending on the precise facts) both would be regulated financial  advice the adviser could not 
lawfully give unless authorised.  
In my view it must be the case that the registered individuals appointment is wider  than only 
introducing applications for new approved contracts.  In my view this is either:
the meaning of clause 2.1 when read with clause  2.4, and the rest of the agreement, and/or
or it is the express or implied  authority  from all the processes set out in Positive  Solutions own 
requirements on its registered individuals as result of the FSA conduct  of business rules it is 
subject to.
In saying  all that, I do not say that the appointment of the registered individual is unconditional.  I only 
say at this point that the authority goes wider  than only introducing applications  for new approved 
contracts.  
So it is my view, in this case, that Positive Solutions authority to Mr H did potentially include advice on 
the merits of transferring his existing investments as well as the introduction of applications for new 
Contracts. 
did the agents actual authority  cover the advice in this case?
An agent is required to act in the interests of the principal. This principle is reflected in some of the 
terms in the agency agreement referred to above. It seems the agent is likely to have  breached those 
terms in this case. 
I also accept that Positive Solutions  Pensions Handbook  said pension transfer advice could only be 
given by pension  transfer specialists. And that Mr H was not qualified or authorised as a pensions  
transfer specialist.
It is difficult to see that giving  advice  to: 
set up a SIPP (with a non-approved provider)  
and transfer pensions to it in order to invest in a non-approved investment 
when not qualified to give pensions  transfer advice
where no commission or fee was passed  on to Positive Solutions 
Ref: DRN652298526was acting  in the interests of the principal,  Positive  Solutions.
It is therefore  my view that the agent was not acting within the actual authority in relation to the 
disputed advice.  
That is not however the end of the matter.    There is also apparent (or ostensible) authority to 
consider. 
apparent authority
In an agency relationship,  a principal may limit the actual authority of his agent. But if the agent acts 
outside of that actual  authority, a principal may still be liable to third parties for the agents acts if 
those acts were within the agents apparent  authority. This is the case even if the agent was acting 
fraudulently and in furtherance of his own interest  provided the agent is acting within his apparent 
authority. 
This type of authority was described  by Diplock  LJ in Freeman  & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties 
(Mangal) Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authorityis a legal relationship between  the principal and the 
contractor created by a representation, made by the principal  to the contractor, intended to be 
and in fact acted  upon  by the contractor,  that the agent has authority to enter on behalf of the 
principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the "apparent"  authority, so as to render 
the principal  liable  to perform any obligations imposed upon him by such contract.  To the 
relationship so created  the agent is a stranger. He need  not be (although he generally  is) 
aware of the existence of the representation but he must not purport to make the agreement 
as principal himself. The representation, when acted upon by the contractor by entering into a 
contract with the agent, operates as an estoppel, preventing the principal from asserting that 
he is not bound by the contract. It is irrelevant whether the agent had actual authority to enter 
into the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into the contract  can in the 
nature of things hardly ever rely on the "actual" authority of the agent.  His information  as to 
the authority must be derived  either  from the principal  or from the agent  or from both, for they 
alone know what the agents  actual authority  is. All that the contractor can know is what they 
tell him, which  may or may not be true. In the ultimate analysis he relies either upon the 
representation of the principal, that is, apparent  authority, or upon  the representation of the 
agent, that is, warranty of authority...
Although Diplock LJ referred to contractors, the law on apparent  authority applies to any third party 
dealing with the agents of a principal  including consumers like Mr S.
what kinds of representation are capable of giving rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot  arise  on the basis of representations made  by the agent  alone. For 
apparent authority to operate there must be a representation by the principal that the agent  has its 
authority to act. As Diplock LJ said in Freeman, 
The representation  which  creates "apparent" authority may take a variety  of forms of which  
the commonest is representation by conduct,  that is, by permitting the agent to act in some 
way in the conduct of the principals business  with other persons. By so doing  the principal 
represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so acting  that the agent  has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with other persons of the kind which 
an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  "actual" authority to 
enter into.
Ref: DRN652298527In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999]12 WLUK 726, Parker J quoted the relevant principle  as stated in 
Article 74 in Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency  16th edition:
Where  a person,  by words  or conduct,  represents or permits it to be represented that another  
person has authority to act on his behalf  he is bound by the acts of that other person with 
respect to anyone  dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  representation, to the 
same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to have,  even 
though he had no such actual authority. 
In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 Comm,  Jacobs J endorsed 
Parker Js approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in particular  
paragraph 5.3.3) that, in order to establish apparent authority, it is necessary  for the claimants 
to establish a representation  made by Sense  [the alleged principal],  which was intended  to be 
acted on and which was in fact acted on by the claimants, that MFSS  [the alleged agent] was 
authorised by Sense  to give advice  in connection with the scheme
I also agree with Sense that there  is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the compulsory 
wording relating to the status of MFSS and Sense  appearing at the foot of the stationery and 
elsewhere  which can be read as containing any relevant representation as to MFSSs 
authority to do what they were doing  in this case: i.e. running the scheme  and advising in 
relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more than identify the regulatory status of MFSS 
and Sense and the relationship between them. I did not consider that the Claimants had 
provided any persuasive reason as to how the statements on which they relied  relating to 
"status disclosure"  could  lead to the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised to provide advice 
on the scheme that was being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible authority requires  
much more than an assertion that Sense conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As 
Martin shows, it requires a representation  that there was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe  relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even  unwittingly 
led a customer to believe  that an appointed representative or other agent is authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct.  
Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions  in Martin. That case  was not concerned  
with any representation  alleged to arise from "status" disclosure. In Martin , the representation 
by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was 
regarded as a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the mortgage 
in that case) which were ancillary  to insurance products.  In the present case, there is nothing  
in the "status disclosure" which contains any representation that MFSS  or its financial 
advisers could operate or advise in connection  with a deposit  scheme  that MFSS  was 
running.
The representation may be general  in character. In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas SA [1985]  UKHL 11, 
Lord Keith said:
In the commonly encountered case, the ostensible authority is general in character, arising 
when the principal  has placed  the agent in a position which in the outside world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question. Ostensible  
general authority may also arise where the agent has had a course of dealing with a particular  
contractor and the principal  has acquiesced in this course of dealing  and honoured 
transactions arising out of it.
must the third party  rely on the representation?
The principals representation that its agent  has its authority to act on its behalf will only fix the 
principal with liability  to the third party (here Mr S) if the third party relied  on that representation.
Ref: DRN652298528In Anderson, Jacobs J summarised the approach to be taken  as to whether or not there is sufficient 
evidence of reliance on the representation  as follows:
a relevant  ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of the 
representation alleged: see Bowstead  and Reynolds on Agency 21st edition, paragraph [8-
010] and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant  
representation in that case (namely that the adviser  was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in that each of them 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving  advice [the adviser]  was acting in every 
respect as the agent of [the alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal]  so to 
act.
On the particular facts of that case, Jacobs J placed weight on the fact the majority of the claimants 
had never  heard of the defendant, Sense  Network, and that those who had heard of it made  their 
decision to invest in the relevant scheme before they saw the stationery which they later said 
contained the representation on which they relied.
As the case law makes  clear, whether or not a claimant has relied on a representation is dependent 
on the circumstances of that individual case. 
Here, I must consider  whether, on the facts  of this individual  case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr S that Mr H had Positive  Solutions authority 
to act on its behalf in carrying  out the activities he now complains about, and
Mr S relied on that representation in entering into the transactions he now complains about.
Having considered  the law in this area, including Lord Keiths comments  in Armagas , so far as 
representations are concerned I need  to decide  whether Positive  Solutions placed Mr H in a position 
which would objectively  generally be regarded  as carrying its authority to enter into transactions  such  
as setting up of the SIPP to transfer existing personal pensions to it in order to invest  in the Harlequin  
investment scheme. Put another way, did Positive Solutions  knowingly  or even unwittingly  lead Mr 
S to believe  that Mr H was authorised to conduct  business  on its behalf of a type (namely, advising 
and arranging  investments) that he was not in fact authorised to conduct?
I also need  to decide whether Mr S relied  on any representation Positive  Solutions made. Having 
considered Parker Js comments  in Martin, if Mr S proceeded throughout  on the footing that in giving  
advice Mr H was acting in every respect as the agent of Positive Solutions with authority from Positive 
Solutions so to act, then this suggests I should conclude  that Mr S relied on Positive Solutions  
representation.
who was Mr H acting for when he carried out the acts complained of? 
In this case Mr H advised Mr S on the merits of transferring his existing pensions to the SIPP  to invest 
in Harlequin.   
As I have said above Mr H was holding  himself out as Positive Solutions adviser when he gave that 
advice.
Mr S has said he understood Mr H to be acting as Positive Solutions adviser  when he gave that 
advice. I accept that is the case.
did Positive Solutions represent to Mr S that Mr H had the relevant authority?
I note that Mr S did not receive a terms of business agreement in respect of the disputed  advice. 
Nevertheless it is my view that in principle an agent of Positive Solutions was authorised to:
Ref: DRN652298529advise on the setting up of SIPPs
advise on the transfer of existing pensions  to SIPPs
advise on the investment of funds within a SIPP.
These activities were provided  for in Positive Solutions procedures. None of these activities were in 
themselves novel or exceptional or unexpected for an IFA firm. These are activities that fall within the 
class of activities that IFAs are usually  authorised to do. The transfer  of occupational  pensions is a 
specialist activity. Some IFA firms are permitted to carry out that activity. Some are not. I am not sure 
if this is a point that is known  and understood by many consumers or by Mr S in particular. But in any 
event Positive  Solutions was at the time a firm that was authorised to advise on pension  transfers.
Any restrictions  on the authority to give advice  of the types  I have listed above would not have been  
visible to Mr S. So for example he would not know that an adviser should only recommend approved  
investments, should obtain clearance  from Positive Solutions before giving certain  types of advice  and 
should present the advice in certain ways.
Positive Solutions placed Mr H in a position  which  would,  in the outside  world, generally be regarded 
as having authority to carry out the acts Mr S complains about.  
Positive Solutions authorised Mr H to give investment  advice  on its behalf.  It provided  him with 
business stationery.
Positive Solutions arranged for Mr H to appear on the FSA register in respect of Positive Solutions.  
And Mr H was approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the disputed advice. 
There is no separate or additional controlled  function relating specifically to advising on pension 
transfers.
It was in Positive Solutions interest for the general public, including Mr H to understand that it was 
taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers.  I am satisfied that Positive  Solutions 
intended Mr S to act on its representation that Mr H was its financial adviser.
I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive Solutions business. 
It said in its terms of business that its partners would  give impartial,  independent financial advice. I 
do not see how Positive  Solutions could  have  carried out its business  activities at all if the general  
public had not treated registered individuals like Mr H as having authority to give investment advice  on 
behalf of Positive Solutions.
did Mr S rely on Positive Solutions representation? 
Mr S has said he understood Mr H to be acting as Positive Solutions adviser  when he gave that 
advice. 
There is no evidence  to show  that Mr S knew or should have known  that Mr H was acting in any 
capacity other than a Positive Solutions adviser.
In my view,  on balance, the evidence does  indicate  that Mr S proceeded  on the basis that 
Mr H was acting in every respect as the agent of Positive Solutions with authority from Positive  
Solutions so to act.
is it just for Positive Solutions  to be required  to bear any losses caused by Mr H?
The courts have taken into account whether it is just to require a principal  to bear a loss caused by 
the wrongdoing  of his agent. I have considered  whether  it is just to hold Positive  Solutions responsible 
for any detriment Mr S has suffered as result  of the advice he received  from Mr H. Here, I think it is 
just to hold Positive Solutions responsible for the consequences of its putting Mr H in the position 
where Mr S could suffer loss as a result  of his actions. In particular, I note:
Ref: DRN652298530Positive Solutions was in a position to monitor Mr Hs behaviour. 
Positive Solutions did not tell Mr H it had put any of the limits on his authority that it says are 
relevant here.
Positive Solutions agency agreement acknowledges that it will be held responsible for the 
wrongs of its agents  and includes and requires the agent to provide it with an indemnity it 
respect of any losses etc it suffers as result of such wrongs.
So overall I consider that it is just for Positive Solutions to be required to bear any losses caused by 
any wrong doing done  by Mr H whilst carrying  on the a controlled function assigned to him by Positive 
Solutions.
vicarious liability
I think  it is also appropriate  for me to consider whether Positive  Solutions is vicariously  liable for the 
actions of Mr H  independently of whether apparent authority also operated such as to fix Positive  
Solutions with liability for the actions of its agents.  
what is vicarious liability?
Vicarious liability is a common law principle of strict,  no-fault liability for wrongs  committed by another 
person. 
Not all relationships are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. The classic example  of a 
relationship which can give rise to vicarious  liability  is the employment relationship, but 
Mr H was not an employee of Positive Solutions. However, the employment relationship is not the 
only relationship capable of giving rise to vicarious  liability.
Broadly, there is a two-stage test to decide whether  vicarious liability can apply:
Stage one is to ask whether there is a sufficient relationship between  the wrongdoer and the 
principal (Cox v Ministry  of Justice  [2016]  UKSC 10).
Stage two is to ask whether the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently connected  to the 
wrongdoers duties on behalf of the principal for it to be just for the principal to be held liable 
(Mohamud  WM Morrison Supermarkets plc [2016] UKSC 11).
There is some uncertainty  in the law as to how widely  the test in Cox should  be applied. I note that in 
Frederick v Positive Solutions [2018] EWCA Civ 431 the Court of Appeal explicitly declined  to decide 
whether the test in Cox applied to Positive Solutions relationship with another of its registered 
individuals. 
If it were  the case that vicarious liability  could  never have anything  to do with principals and agents 
then I consider it likely that the Court of Appeal would have  simply said so. But in any event, the 
relationship between  Mr H and Positive Solutions was not just an agency relationship. Mr H was 
registered with the FSA as an approved  person able to carry out regulated  activities on Positive  
Solutions behalf, and this complaint is about the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
deals in investments. I consider that it would  be wrong  for me to simply ignore or set aside  the 
regulatory background in reaching my decision.  
I am not aware of any case  law concerning the exact set of circumstances that Mr S complains  about. 
But that does not prevent  me from applying the law as I understand  it to be. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
the words used by judges are not to be treated as if they were the words of a statute. Where 
a case concerns circumstances which have not previously been the subject of an authoritative  
judicial decision, it may be valuable to stand back and consider whether the imposition  of 
vicarious liability would be fair, just and reasonable.
Ref: DRN652298531Had Mr S referred this matter to a court instead of to the ombudsman service, I consider that the court  
is likely  to have chosen to apply the approach  suggested by Lord Reed. I will therefore  do the same.
the stage one test
It is now accepted that a variety of relationships, not just those of employer  and employee, may be 
capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. In Cox, Lord Reed said:
The result [of the approach  adopted by Lord Phillips  in Various Claimants v Catholic Child 
Welfare Society [2012] UKSC 56; [2013] 2 AC 1]  is that a relationship other than one of 
employment is in principle  capable of giving  rise to vicarious liability  where harm is wrongfully 
done by an individual who carries on activities as an integral part of the business activities 
carried on by a defendant and for its benefit (rather than his activities being entirely 
attributable to the conduct  of a recognisably  independent business of his own or of a third 
party), and where the commission of the wrongful act is a risk created by the defendant by 
assigning those activities to the individual in question.
I am satisfied  that in giving investment advice  to Mr S to transfer pensions  to a SIPP and in 
completing the SIPP  application form, Mr H was carrying  on activities as an integral part of the 
business activities carried  on by Positive Solutions. I say that because:
At the time, Positive Solutions stated purpose was To help our clients,  Understand,  Protect 
and Increase their Assets. I consider that the provision of, and subsequent implementation  
of, investment advice is an integral  part of fulfilling  that purpose. 
Positive Solutions business model  was that it gave financial advice itself, through its 
Partners. As set out in its partnership code, those  Partners  promised to give impartial, 
independent financial  advice.  
Positive Solutions status as an authorised firm meant that it was not in breach of the general  
prohibition when it gave investment advice to members  of the public. So, when  its Partners 
gave investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions, carrying  out Positive Solutions 
business activities, those Partners were not in breach of the general  prohibition either.
Mr H was a Positive Solutions Partners. Positive Solutions had given him permission  to carry 
out the controlled functions Investment Adviser (Trainee), then Investment  Adviser and 
CF 30 Customer on behalf of Positive Solutions. Positive Solutions had therefore  engaged 
Mr H to carry out activities that were an integral part of its business.
I note that the FCA has issued guidance as to when it considers a person to be carrying on a 
business in their own right,  set out in PERG 2.3.5 to 2.3.11. Although the guidance was published 
some time after the events  Mr S complains of took place, the relevant  parts of the legislation (in 
respect of permissions to give regulated financial advice) have  not changed  substantively. I therefore 
consider it appropriate for me to take into account the guidance in PERG,  which  says:
In practice,  a person is only likely to fall outside the general prohibition on the grounds that 
he is not carrying on his own business if he is an employee or performing a role very similar to 
an employee .
Positive Solutions clearly  intended Mr H to fall outside the general prohibition when acting on Positive 
Solutions behalf in giving and implementing investment advice. As Ive said, I consider that the only 
way in which Mr H could have fallen outside the general prohibition would be on the basis that he was 
carrying on Positive  Solutions business rather than his own.  In my view, the guidance therefore  
provides support for the contention that 
Mr Hs relationships with Positive Solutions were  very similar  to employment relationships. 
Ref: DRN652298532Further, in allowing  Mr H to give investment advice on its behalf, Positive  Solutions was creating the 
risk that he might make errors or act negligently in doing so. Positive Solutions assigned  to Mr H the 
customer facing task of giving regulated financial advice to Positive  Solutions  customers, and it is 
always possible  for that task to be carried out negligently.
the stage two test
The stage two test asks whether the wrongdoers action is so closely connected with the business  
activities of his principal as to make  it just to hold the principal liable.
As Lord Dyson said in Mohamud,  the test requires a court  to make an evaluative judgment in each 
case having regard to all the circumstances  and having regard to the assistance provided by previous 
decisions on the facts  of other cases. That is not a precise test, but the courts  have recognised the 
inevitability of imprecision given the infinite range  of circumstances where the issue of vicarious 
liability arises .
In the particular circumstances  of this complaint, I consider that it is just for Positive Solutions to be 
held responsible for the actions Mr S complains about.  I note:
Mr H was giving investment advice  and filling in forms to put that advice into practice. I 
consider both of those  activities are closely connected to the business activities of Positive  
Solutions, a firm which provided financial advice and arranged investment transactions for its 
customers (including Mr S).
If Positive Solutions is not vicariously  liable here, then Mr Ss ability to obtain compensation 
would depend  on whether the Positive Solutions Partner he dealt with was an employee of 
Positive Solutions. In Cox, the court suggested it would have been unreasonable and unfair 
for the claimants ability to receive compensation for the injury she suffered  while working in a 
prison kitchen  to depend  on whether  the worker who injured her was an employee or a 
prisoner. I consider  that argument has even more relevance here  at least  Mrs Cox is likely  
to have either known or had the ability  to find out who was an employee  and who was a 
prisoner. But Mr S had no way of knowing Mr Hs employment status.  (I am aware that Mr Hs 
agency contract said he had to make his status  as a registered individual clear  but even if 
he had done that, the term Registered  Individual did not imply  anything about  his 
employment status).
The agency contract says Positive Solutions will not be responsible if Mr H acts outside his 
authority. But the contract also says that any act or omission of the registered  individual will 
be treated as an act of Positive Solutions. In my view, those two terms conflict. I do not 
consider it would be fair for Positive  Solutions to be entitled to rely on one but ignore the 
other.
Positive Solutions received no benefit from the acts Mr S complains about,  and in particular  it 
did not receive  any commission. But as Lord Toulson explained in Mohamud, vicarious 
liability can apply  even where  an employee  has abused his position in a way that cannot  
possibly have  been  of benefit to his employer  such  as carrying out a private fraud or 
assaulting a customer.  In Frederick, Positive Solutions was found not to be vicariously liable  
despite having received  commission. The commission issue  is not determinative.
I acknowledge that the conclusions  I have  reached are different to the conclusions reached by the 
court in Frederick . In that case, Positive Solutions was found not to be vicariously  liable for the 
conduct of a named Mr Warren. I have not seen the whole of Mr Warrens agency contract  with 
Positive Solutions, but from the sections quoted in the judgment the terms in his contract  appear to be 
identical to the terms in Mr Hs contract.
However, the facts  in Frederick are so different  to the facts here that I do not consider that the same 
outcome is inevitable  in this complain. In particular,  I note:   
Ref: DRN652298533In Frederick, the claimants were  approached  by a Mr Qureshi  who was not a registered 
individual of Positive  Solutions.  Mr Qureshi induced them to invest in a property scheme, 
which he was running jointly with Mr Warren.  The claimants had no personal dealings  with 
[Mr] Warren and did not meet him or receive  any written communications from himthere 
was no semblance of an advice process. Here, Mr S had personal dealings  with Mr H, 
Positive Solutions registered individual.  He met with Mr H who provided  him with advice. Mr 
H carried out business activities of a type that had been specifically assigned  to him by 
Positive Solutions, and which  he could  only (lawfully) perform on behalf of Positive  Solutions.
 
Mr Warren submitted dishonest and fraudulent  mortgage  applications for loans on behalf of 
the claimants. Mr S makes no allegation of fraud. He only complains  about  the suitability of 
the advice for him. His allegation is one of negligence  and or breach  of statutory duty. He 
does not say Mr H was dishonest. There is therefore no need for me to consider  whether 
Positive Solutions would have  been vicariously  liable for 
Mr Hs dishonest  acts.
Mr Warren was only able to submit the mortgage applications  in the way he did because  he 
was an agent of Positive Solutions. But the claimants  in Frederick did not say they had 
suffer[ed]  any loss through the actual re-mortgaging  or their receipt  of monies from [the 
lender]. Instead, they suffered losses only when they handed the money  over to Mr Warren  
(or to the company of which Mr Warren and Mr Qureshi were directors). In contrast, Mr S 
says he suffered losses as a direct result of the advice given  to him by Mr H, in his capacity 
as a Positive Solutions financial adviser, to transfer his pensions to a SIPP to invest  in 
Harlequin. 
what if the tests in Cox and Mohamud  are not applicable to this complaint?
I recognise that a court might take the view that the specific tests set out in Cox and Mohamud are not 
applicable to Mr H, Positive Solutions,  and the specific acts Mr S complains about.  The applicability of 
those tests to agency relationships is unclear, as is their applicability to some or all of the reliance-
based torts, possibly including  negligent  mis-statement.  
Even if those  specific tests  are not applied, I still consider that it would be appropriate for a court to 
consider whether Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the actions of 
Mr H. The earlier cases, including Armagas and the Christian Brothers case [2012]  UKSC 56, make 
clear that justice is the courts overriding concern in such matters.  Where the claimant and the 
defendant are both innocent parties, the court will consider  whether the circumstances under which  
the wrongdoer committed his wrong were  such as to make it just for the defendant  to bear the loss.
Bearing in mind  the regulatory position, I consider that in the particular circumstances of this case it is 
just to require Positive Solutions to bear any loss caused by negligent investment advice provided by 
Mr H.
From a public  policy point  of view, one of the purposes of FSMA was to make provisions for the 
protection of consumers. The approved person regime was one of the ways in which  both FSMA and 
the FSA gave  effect  to that protection. Mr H was a Positive  Solutions approved persons. In view of 
section 59(1) of FSMA, I consider that when 
Mr H carried  out the regulated activity of advising  on investments, and arranging deals in investments, 
those activities were the activities of Positive Solutions. Positive Solutions is clearly responsible for its 
own activities.  I see no support  in FSMA  or anywhere else  for the belief  that Positive  Solutions  
responsibility for its approved persons was dependent on the precise nature of its contracts  with those 
people (agency/non-agency). Similarly, I do not see anything to suggest Positive  Solutions  
responsibility depends on whether the approved  persons  conduct  is classified in terms of one type of 
tort (reliance-based) or another. I would be surprised  if a court were to take the view that such  
distinctions were relevant  to the outcome  of this complaint.
Ref: DRN652298534I therefore  consider  that Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr S complains  about  
regardless of whether  Mr H carried out those  acts with apparent authority on behalf of Positive 
Solutions. (However, as I have said I consider  that Mr H did in fact act with Positive  Solutions 
apparent authority when they carried out the acts complained of.) 
statutory responsibility  under  section 150 of FSMA
For the reasons  Ive give above, I am satisfied that when  Mr H gave the advice complained of, and 
when he arranged the associated deals in investments,  he was acting in his capacity  as Positive  
Solutions approved persons for the purpose of carrying on Positive  Solutions regulated business. He 
was not carrying on a business of his own.
That means Positive Solutions is subject  to the Conduct of Business  (COBS) suitability rules in 
respect of Mr Hs advice. If Mr Hs advice was not suitable, then (subject  to the recognised defences)  
Positive Solutions is responsible in damages to Mr S under  the statutory  cause of action provided  by 
section 150 of FSMA. I therefore consider that section 150 of FSMA  provides an alternative route by 
which Positive Solutions is responsible for the acts complained of.
summary of my provisional findings on jurisdiction
Having considered  all of the circumstances here, as well as the legal  authorities,  I am provisionally 
satisfied that: 
Positive Solutions represented to Mr S that Mr H had Positive Solutions authority both to 
advise on the transfer of Mr Hs pensions to a SIPP, Mr S relied on Positive Solutions 
representations, and apparent authority therefore operated such  as to give rise to Positive  
Solutions responsibility for the acts Mr S complains about.
 
In addition  or in the alternative  Positive Solutions is vicariously liable for the acts Mr S 
complains about.  
Positive Solutions also has statutory  responsibility under section 150 of FSMA  for the acts 
complained about.
I am therefore satisfied that Positive  Solutions is responsible for the acts Mr S complains  about. Even 
if I am wrong  about one or two of the above three conclusions, I still consider  that the third means  that 
Mr Ss complaint about Positive Solutions falls within  my jurisdiction.
my provisional  findings  on merits
When considering all the evidence  and arguments in order to decide whether we can consider this 
complaint I have also formed a provisional view about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr S was advised  to transfer his pensions  to invest in a SIPP. That first step in the overall transaction 
necessarily involves  considering the suitability of the SIPP and the suitability of the known 
replacement investment. It is not possible  to give suitable advice on the merits of the sale of the 
pensions without also considering the suitability of the replacement.
Mr S has complaint is that the Harlequin  investment involved too much risk for him.
I note that Positive  Solutions Pension Handbook  says that its advisers should  not recommend a SIPP 
for a pension fund of less that £75,000. And in this complaint less than £75,000 was transferred to the 
SIPP.
Ref: DRN652298535I also note the following  comments  made by the Upper Tribunal Tax and Chancery Chamber  in the 
case Alistair Burns v Financial Conduct Authority [2018]  UKUT 0246 (TCC)  a case  involving a 
Director of Tailor Made:
273 It would be readily apparent to any competent financial adviser that for an 
unsophisticated retail  investor with a relatively small pension pot represented either by 
interests in a defined benefit scheme or in a personal  pension  invested in a spread  of 
traditional investments,  to switch his benefits into a SIPP  which was to be wholly invested in 
either a single or very small number of inherently  risky overseas property investments was a 
wholly unsuitable course of action for that investor to take 
I agree with that view.  The investment in Harlequin was relatively high risk and there is no evidence 
that the investment was suitable for Mr S. In my view investing in an unregulated off-plan overseas  
property investment scheme involved a high degree of risk which  was not suitable  for Mr S. There  is 
no evidence he was a high risk investor. He does not present as such  and he does not hold other high 
risk investments. He should  not have been advised to transfer pensions  to transfer to a SIPP in order  
to invest  in Harlequin. He should have been advised not to transfer his pensions  at all.
There is no evidence  to suggest  Mr S would have transferred his pensions  to invest in Harlequin  if 
Positive Solution had advised him that it was unsuitable for him to transfer his personal pensions  to a 
SIPP and then invest those  pension  funds  in Harlequin.   (Or if he had been so advised by another IFA 
if Positive Solutions had refused to advise on the Harlequin investment  scheme.) It is therefore  my 
present view that he if had been given suitable  advice Mr S would have left his pensions as they were  
with the existing  pension providers.
Mr S has lost the money he invested in Harlequin which he thought  was a legitimate and worthwhile 
investment that he thought  involved little or no risk. He will have suffered a considerable trouble  and 
upset as a result. 
how to put things right
Positive Solutions should, as far as possible, put Mr S into the position he would  now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice to transfer his occupational  pensions to a SIPP  to invest I the scheme.
Positive Solutions should undertake a redress calculation  in line with the revised  methodology issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible  be paid into Mr Ss pension  
plan. The payment  should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If the payment into the pension isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it should be 
paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making  a deduction to reflect the rate of income  tax Mr S is 
likely to pay in retirement. This is because the payment would otherwise have  been used  to provide 
pension benefits, which would have been taxed according to his likely tax paying  status in retirement. 
So the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would  otherwise 
have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax at retirement. For 
example, if Mr S is a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement, the notional allowance  would equate to a 
reduction in the total amount  equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S had been  
able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance  should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Had Positive Solutions given suitable  advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair if Mr S 
has to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ref: DRN652298536Ideally, Positive Solutions should take over the investment to allow  the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr S back in the position he would have been in. 
So, to provide  certainty to both parties, I think its fair that Positive Solutions pays 
Mr S an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated  using the previous 
years fees),  or undertakes  to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should  
provide a reasonable  period for things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return  for the compensation  set out above, Positive Solutions may ask Mr S to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive  from the investment in that five 
year period, as well as any other  payment  he may receive from any party as a result of the 
investment. That undertaking  should  allow  for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount they 
may receive.  Positive Solutions will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up this undertaking. If it asks 
Mr S to provide an undertaking, payment  of the compensation awarded by my decision may be 
dependent upon provision of that undertaking.  
If, after five years, Positive Solutions wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under  the investment,  it must agree to pay any further future SIPP fees. If 
Positive Solutions fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr S should  then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investment to allow the SIPP  to be closed.
Mr S will have been caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of a 
significant part of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £500  is fair to compensate for that upset.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  decision  is that: 
we can consider this complaint
the complaint  should be upheld
and Positive solutions should pay fair compensation as set out above.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6522985