K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that AXA unfairly declined  their home  insurance claim for a lost 
bracelet.
background
Mr and Mrs F made a claim on their home insurance for a lost bracelet. The item is a 
designer brand, valued at £2,530. AXA declined the claim on the basis  it hadnt seen 
sufficient proof of the bracelets authenticity.
AXA says:
The onus  is on Mrs F to prove  her bracelet was authentic. The brand in question is 
often replicated and these are easily accessible.
 
Mrs F has provided photos of the item, but AXAs jewellery validation supplier wasnt 
able to verify the items authenticity,  or description,  due to the quality of the photos.  
Although the designer has confirmed the model  based on the photos, it too was 
unable to confirm  authenticity.
It offered  to speak  to Mrs Fs father, who gifted the item, to see if he could provide 
information to support  the claim, such as a receipt  or details about the purchase.  
However, Mrs F advised he would be unwilling to help.
Mrs F is unable to provide the guarantee card  and although  shes produced  a box, 
this alone doesnt  prove the bracelet was authentic.  It says boxes can be purchased  
online and there wasnt anything supplied with the box to link it to the item, such as 
an insert  confirming the items make and quality, or the part that holds the bracelet. 
AXA highlights that Mrs F said the box had been thrown out, only for it to be found 
months later after the claim  was declined. 
When the claim was registered Mrs F told AXA the bracelet was gifted  to her during 
her graduation in 2013  and she later took the item to a jewellers to have  an extra  
clasp fitted. However, when Mrs F was asked for the receipt for this work, she said 
that having contacted  the jeweller it only keeps receipts for seven years. As such, 
AXA says it would  expect  the jeweller to be able to provide a receipt  for the work  
given less than seven years had passed.  AXA also says when it asked Mrs F for 
details of the jeweller, she said she couldnt  remember, but yet she knows the 
jewellers policy regarding receipts.
The description Mrs F gave of the bracelet  when  the claim was registered  doesnt 
match the single clasp bracelets that are available,  so it has concerns the second 
clasp was fitted to make  the item appear  authentic.
Mrs F says she reported the incident  to the hotel where  the loss occurred, but AXA 
says the hotel doesnt have a record of these conversations  and it told AXA that it 
keeps all records of lost property in a book.
Given the above concerns and inconsistences,  AXA is satisfied that further proof of 
purchase is required. It also reiterated  that it would consider the claim again upon 
receipt of reasonable substantiation. 
Ref: DRN68679292Mrs F says:
Shes a chartered  insurer working  in the industry, so she wouldnt submit  a fraudulent 
claim and risk her career. She says the loss was reported to staff at the venue, and 
she called the next day to see if the item had been  handed in. She also says her 
friends made enquiries at the venue a week later. Furthermore, the incident was 
logged with the police.
Theres isnt a policy requirement to have items valued, and the policy limit for a 
jewellery item is £10,000.
The bracelet  was a graduation gift from her father, but they are no longer in contact 
due to a breakdown in their relationship. However, Mrs F has provided 12 photos of 
her wearing  the item,  spanning five years, to prove ownership; and she considers it 
unlikely that a replica bracelet would  last that long without  either  breaking  or 
tarnishing.
Although she cant prove  her bracelet was authentic, AXA cant prove  it wasnt. Mrs F 
says she couldnt produce the items  box when  they first claimed, but it was found in 
her late-mothers home after she passed  away. She says that she added  another  
clasp to make the bracelet more secure, and the design  may have been changed 
since she got hers. 
She received  the bracelet a few months after her 2012 graduation, and added the 
second clasp in early 2013. The jeweller told her that it doesnt hold records dating  
back to 2013.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators, and she concluded it should be 
upheld. She thought that in the circumstances, Mrs F had done enough to substantiate the 
claim, and she couldnt reasonably do anything more to prove the items authenticity.  
Because AXA disagreed, the matter  has been  passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 June 2019. I explained that I didnt intend to uphold  
the complaint   but I would consider any further evidence  or comments I receive. In my 
provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having thought about matters carefully, I dont  intend to uphold  the complaint.  I appreciate  
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs F, particularly as our investigator 
reached a different outcome.  Ill explain  my reasons. 
Its for Mr and Mrs F to substantiate their claim.  This means they need  to prove, on balance,  
the value of their loss. But Im not persuaded they have.
Ref: DRN68679293If there was some  confusion about when the item was gifted and the second clasp  added,  in 
my view that would  be understandable given the time that had passed.  I also havent placed  
any weight on Mrs F producing the box after she initially said it had been thrown out, or on 
not being able to obtain her fathers  assistance. In my opinion, Mrs F has given reasonable 
explanations in response to these concerns. Also, although the venue where the item was 
lost doesnt have the incident logged, Mrs F has given a crime reference number; so Im 
persuaded its more  likely that the venue didnt follow its process,  than Mrs F didnt make 
enquiries. 
However, I do understand AXAs other  concerns. AXA asked for the jewellers  details that 
fitted the second clasp so it could make its own enquiries, and these details havent  been 
forthcoming. I dont  consider  AXAs  request unreasonable.  
Theres also the matter  of the description  that was given when the claim was registered.  
AXAs call notes state the item was described as white  and yellow  gold  the designers 
website shows two clasps for an item of this description and a value of £5,000.  But after 
reviewing the photos, the designer said the item was the stainless steel and yellow  gold 
model, valued at £2,530. So given Mrs F was mistaken about the materials, Im not 
persuaded she can be certain of the bracelets authenticity either.
In any event, given  the bracelet is a relatively  high value item and the authenticity cant  be 
confirmed from the photos  provided, I dont consider it unreasonable for AXA to require 
further substantiation. Items such as these are replicated  and weve  not been shown 
anything that persuades  me a replica is unlikely to last six years if looked after.
 
Furthermore, I accept what AXA says about the boxes being widely available online  and if 
there isnt anything in Mrs Fs box that links it to the bracelet shes  claiming for, Im satisfied 
that the box doesnt, on balance, prove  authenticity.
I understand why Mrs F cant  provide proof of purchase or details about where the item was 
bought from. But in my opinion,  its reasonable to expect the guarantee card or similar insert 
to be in her possession, as shes the owner.  In the absence of any of these things, the onus  
was on Mrs F to have the item valued  regardless of the policy terms or limits.
In conclusion, although Im persuaded Mrs F owned, and lost, a bracelet  Im not persuaded 
Mr and Mrs F have  sufficiently substantiated their claim in terms of the items value. As such, 
I dont consider AXAs position to be unreasonable.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.  But Mrs F replied with her further comments 
and observations. Ill outline the additional  points  she made:
Mrs F says she didnt  tell AXA the box had been  thrown out, but rather she told it she 
didnt know where it was having moved  house  a few times.  She also doesnt consider 
it unreasonable that the insert has gone missing given it wasnt glued to the box and 
the passage of time. She has also provided  screenshots of her online account for a 
well-known shopping platform to show she hasnt  bought a box online. Mrs F also 
says shes certain  the box she found  belonged  to her bracelet  because her mum 
didnt own any items  by that designer.
Ref: DRN68679294Mrs F says AXA didnt  ask for the jewellers details that fitted  the second clasp,  it only 
suggested she approach the jeweller  to see if it still held the receipt or records of the 
work. She also explained that the jeweller  didnt say it only kept receipts for seven 
years, but rather it didnt  hold receipts  for as far back  as 2013.
Mrs F reiterated  the second  clasp was added for security  reasons,  it wasnt  added to 
make the item appear authentic  she has highlighted that the second clasp was 
custom designed by the jeweller and doesnt  match the design of the bracelet.
Mrs F is persuaded the item was authentic  because it was a graduation gift of great 
sentimental value, and her family doesnt own replica items. 
Mrs F clarified  that she first logged the claim online. She says because she didnt  buy 
the bracelet she didnt  know  its value  so on the claim form she gave the value of a 
bracelet she found online that she thought  was the closest  match to her item. Mrs F 
doesnt consider  it unreasonable that she mistook  her stainless steel bracelet to be 
white gold. She also highlighted that as soon as the designer  corrected her, she 
shared this information with AXA.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for 
the same  reasons. But Ill comment on the additional  points made.
Overall, I accept  what Mrs F has since told me about her discussions with AXA in respect  of 
the jeweller and her misplaced box. I also acknowledge that Mr and Mrs F have done  as 
much as they can to support their claim.  
However, although Mr and Mrs F have done  all they can at this time, Im still not persuaded 
they have, on balance, shown the value of their loss; and I dont consider AXAs position to 
be unreasonable given the items  relatively  high value and the availability of replicas. 
In my opinion, I cant fairly decide  AXA should  pay the claim without  anything  to confirm  the 
bracelets authenticity or value. Mrs F has provided screenshots of an online account,  but in 
my view the screenshots only show she hasnt bought a box using that particular account; 
not that the authentic  box she has produced always belonged to her bracelet. 
Its understandable  that Mrs F believes the bracelet her father gifted her was authentic  but 
in the absence of the usual supporting documentation Im not persuaded she can be certain,  
just as she wasnt certain of the materials.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  and in my provisional decision, my final decision  is I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN68679295Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6867929