K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1989
alongside a mortgage. Ms H says Bradford & Bingley plc (B&B) mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
When B&B sold the PPI policy  to Ms H it had to make her aware that it was optional and 
gain her consent before adding it to her policy. Ms H has told us she wasnt  aware the PPI 
had been added to her mortgage and that she didnt give her consent.  I have thought  
carefully about what Ms H has said, but B&B has provided a copy of Ms Hs mortgage  
application form completed at the time.  The application form has a separate section for PPI 
that has options to take both different levels of cover, or to decline cover altogether.  An 
option to take PPI has been selected and the mortgage application  has been signed by 
Ms H. Based on the information  provided  I think Ms H would have been aware the PPI was 
optional, and she chose  to take it.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Ms H, so it didnt have to check  if the policy  was right for
her. But it did have to make sure Ms H got the information she needed  to decide if PPI was
right for her.
Its possible the information B&B gave Ms H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve
been. But she chose  to take it out knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included savings, benefit  entitlement, and help from family. But the PPI 
would have helped  protect Ms Hs savings and paid out in addition to any benefits she would  
have received. And while Ms Hs family would have wanted to help, I dont think this offer 
could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Hs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
if something had gone  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So, although Ms H 
says she wouldnt have  taken the policy due to the amount it cost, I dont think  better
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive considered everything Ms H has said including that she wasnt working just after taking 
the policy. But the application  form completed  at the time and signed by Ms H shows she 
was employed. So, I dont think B&B mis-sold the policy, and this doesnt change my 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Ref: DRN61275422Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6127542