K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains that a car that she paid for using  a fixed  sum loan agreement  with Hitachi 
Capital (UK) plc, trading  as Hitachi Personal  Finance,  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss C bought a used  car, which she financed using  a fixed sum loan agreement  with 
Hitachi Personal Finance that she signed  in January 2019. She had a number of issues with 
the car  the first of which was only a week after she bought  it  and various repairs were 
made in the following two months. The cars engine failed in March  2019 and Miss C 
abandoned the car at the dealers.
She complained to Hitachi Personal  Finance and it arranged for the car to be inspected by 
an independent expert. It said the experts report evidenced that the engine had failed due to 
how the car had been maintained so it didnt uphold her complaint. She wasnt satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He concluded that 
the engine damage occurred due to driver neglect and he believed  that Hitachi  Personal 
Finance had dealt  with the complaint fairly.
Miss C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says that the 
dealer told her to continue  driving  the car and to bring it back if the warning  light came back 
on. She says that there was no neglect  on her part and all problems were reported back  to 
the dealer and she has an independent witness who will support that.
my provisional decisions
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss C 
and to Hitachi Personal Finance on 28 July 2020. My provisional decision didnt take account 
of the £2,357.59 that had been included in the agreement to settle Miss Cs previous 
agreement so I issued  a second  provisional  decision to them on 10 September. In my 
second provisional decision, I said as follows:
The invoice for the car shows that £2,357.59  was paid to settle Miss Cs previous 
agreement but the value  of the car that she part-exchanged was £1,007.59 and she 
paid a £300 deposit which reduced  that amount  and the net amount paid to settle 
her previous  agreement was £1,050.  That amount was included on the loan 
agreement to repay existing finance  shortfall and was added  to the price of the car 
of £5,000 - so the amount of credit  provided to her was £6,050. 
My provisional decision didnt take account of the settlement figure of £2,357.59. In 
my provisional decision I said that I considered that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Miss C to have  some responsibility for the engine failure and that Hitachi  Personal 
Finance should  keep  the deposit that she paid for the car and the value of the car 
that she part-exchanged as her contribution  to the cost of that damage. I still consider 
that thats fair and reasonable but it doesnt  address the settlement figure of 
£2,357.59. I consider that its fair and reasonable to expect that Miss C would also 
need to make a substantial contribution  towards reimbursing Hitachi  Personal  
Finance for the settlement figure.
Ref: DRN68396452I also said in my provisional; decision that Hitachi  Personal Finance should refund to 
Miss C all but the first two monthly  payments that shes  made  under the agreement  
(with interest) and that it should pay her £50 compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience that she was caused. 
Having considered the appropriate outcome in detail, I now consider that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Hitachi Personal Finance to set-off those payments against 
the settlement  figure of £2,357.59 and then to pay any remaining amount to Miss C. 
If the amount of those payments is less than the settlement figure of £2,357.59, I 
consider that Hitachi Personal Finance should then write-off the outstanding balance.  
The net effect of that is that Hitachi Personal  Finance will end the loan agreement 
and arrange for the car to be collected  and there will then either  be a payment of the 
remaining balance to Miss C or the outstanding balance will be written-off. I consider 
that to be fair and reasonable  in these circumstances.
So subject to any further representations by Miss C or Hitachi Personal Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold  this complaint in part. Miss C has 
accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and because  Miss C has 
accepted my second provisional decision, I see no reason to change that decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint in part and I 
order Hitachi Capital (UK) plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance, to:
1.End the fixed sum loan agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected  both at 
no cost to Miss C.
2.Pay any amount remaining  after the actions described above to Miss C or, if theres 
then any outstanding balance of the settlement figure, to write-off  that balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6839645