K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about the way in which ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG (ERV) handled  her 
claim for assistance after she suffered an accidental injury  abroad. 
Mr M has brought the complaint  on behalf of his mother Mrs W. 
Mrs W and Mr M will notice that ERVs name has changed slightly  from the one in the policy  
document. This doesnt  affect  the outcome of the complaint. 
background
In May 2018  Mrs W went on a weeks holiday with her husband Mr W, and with her son and 
daughter-in-law Mr and Mrs M. Sadly  on the second day Mrs W fell and injured herself. She 
was checked over by a doctor and given  a wheelchair to use. As she was in pain she went  to 
the hospital where she was diagnosed  with a fractured pelvis (pubic bone) and other  soft 
tissue injuries. Mr M arranged for ERV to authorise the scans.
When it became clear Mrs W would need  assistance  to travel back  to the UK ERV referred 
the case to its assistance company. Mr M spoke to the assistance  company staff but he 
soon lost confidence in its ability to help.  So he said hed arrange Mrs Ws flight  home.  
Unfortunately the flight arrangements  proved difficult for Mr M to arrange because  of 
Mrs Ws injuries. So Mr M asked the assistance company to arrange  the flights home for 
Mrs W and the family. Mr M paid for two additional  seats because  he was told only one 
additional flight (for Mr W) was covered  under the policy. He complained  about the service 
theyd received while the family was still abroad; in particular,  about confusion between  the 
different companies  hed spoken to and lack of communication. 
On returning home  the assistance  company responded to the complaint.  It accepted  that it 
could have explained the repatriation arrangements  to Mr M more  clearly, and said sorry for 
this. But overall  it said it had provided  a good level of service and had arranged the flights 
back to the UK at short notice. As it had not paid the costs for a medical escort  it agreed to 
cover Mr and Mrs Ms return flight costs  too. Mr M asked us to look into the complaint on 
behalf of Mrs W.
Our investigator thought ERV had provided  a reasonable service overall, so she didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said ERV had paid for Mr and Mrs Ms flights,  which werent 
included. Mr M asked  for a review,  pointing out the flight costs were  paid in lieu of a medical 
escort for Mrs W. So the complaints come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear about Mrs Ws injury abroad, which was clearly  very painful and 
distressing for her. I hope she has made  a good  recovery.
I can see that Mrs W and the family  had a difficult time following the injury. Mr and Mrs M 
(and other family members)  assisted her and Mr W during their remaining time abroad,  
during the journey home  and after she was back in the UK. Theyve  explained that they felt 
Ref: DRN62234902their experience with the insurance  company and the assistance company added  to rather 
than relieved the distressing situation. 
Ive carefully thought  about all the comments and evidence.  Without  taking anything  away  
from Mrs Ws distress I think that overall  ERV and its assistance company handled the 
request for assistance satisfactorily. It responded reasonably to Mr Ms complaint and said 
sorry for failing to explain more about the seat allocation on the flight. ERV properly paid for 
Mr and Mrs Ms flights because  as Mr M himself pointed out  theyd saved ERV the cost 
of a medical escort. 
Mr M is concerned about the different parties involved. But its usual for travel insurance 
policies to be sold by a company which arranges for any medical  declarations, as here, and 
for the cover to be provided  by an insurance  company or underwriter. Also,  most  insurance 
companies in my experience use a specialist assistance company to arrange emergency 
assistance and repatriation. 
I understand Mr M initially called one number for ERV claims and ERV then referred him to 
its assistance company.  I think ERV did pass on the details hed given to it. It also properly 
authorised the medical treatment quickly. Mr M was asked for more  information but thats  
usual to confirm  there  is cover under the policy. It would have helped if the recorded 
message used just one companys name but I dont think this prevented  Mr M from making  
timely contact with the correct company. 
Mr M gave  the assistance company both an email  address and a telephone  number to 
contact him. Im satisfied  that the assistance  company did attempt to contact him with 
updates and it did so in a timely way. Where it couldnt speak with him because the phone 
calls didnt connect it let him know either by email or text message. Mr M did call on a 
regular basis but Im satisfied ERV was taking prompt steps to arrange the return  journey. 
Arranging the repatriation can take some time because  there  is work to do behind  the 
scenes. The assistance company needs to check the help the injured person needs  on the 
flight, that they are fit to fly and then to obtain  medical clearance from the airline to allow 
them to board the flight. I think ERVs assistance  company did explain this and it made 
prompt and satisfactory arrangements, at fairly short  notice. As it has acknowledged  it could 
have explained  more about  the seat allocations  and why it would usually arrange  for extra  
seats rather than additional leg room. 
I think the assistance company did properly explain the cover available under the policy was 
limited to one person  to escort the injured  person  home. Mr M pointed  out the assistance  he 
and Mrs M had given Mrs W allowed her and Mr W to return  home  without a medical  escort.  
ERV then agreed to pay Mrs Ws claim for Mr and Mrs Ms flights too. I think that was a 
reasonable response.
Its clear that Mrs W and in turn her family were upset about the assistance they received 
following her injury.  But I think ERVs  response  both to the assistance  request and the 
subsequent complaint was satisfactory. This means  that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN62234903my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6223490