K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that his limited company is owed money as a result of WorldPay (UK)
Limited incorrectly setting  up its merchant services agreement.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 5 March 2020. In summary, I was
minded not to uphold the complaint  so I didnt require WorldPay  (UK) Limited (WorldPay) 
to pay Mr Es company,  T, what he claims its owed in missing payments. 
It was my judgment that its only the relationship between T and WorldPay   i.e. merchant 
and merchant acquirer   that I could  determine. American Express  (Amex) has an interest 
in the contract, in the sense that it features  as part of the service that WorldPay agreed  to 
arrange for T. However, according to this account agreement  and the evidence  presented,  I 
wasnt satisfied that Amex has a direct  contractual relationship with T.
In short,  I concluded  that the general  rule of law is that the person liable for the breach of 
duty/contract must  compensate the other party for his reasonably  foreseeable losses  so 
long as theyre not too remote from the cause; and theres no intervening  act to reduce or 
remove liability. 
T has a responsibility to check its invoices  and receipts reconciled,  not least for accounting 
and tax purposes. I was therefore  unable  to accept that T could not reasonably have noticed 
the missing payments at an earlier point. I was minded to decide  that this failure  constituted 
an intervening  act which should  relieve WorldPay of liability.  Or, reduce WorldPays liability 
in light of the contributory negligence on Ts part.
As I saw it, WorldPay had already paid T a total of £15,227.50  towards  the
missing payments. I judged this this to be a sizeable proportion of what was originally
outstanding before the complaint was raised. I was therefore minded to say that a fair and 
reasonable settlement had been made.  It follows that I didnt require WorldPay  to do 
anything further  for the complaint. 
responses to the provisional  decision
WorldPay accepted  my provisional findings  and it has nothing further to add. 
T does not accept. Its submitted that I have erred in fact, on the basis that WorldPay  did not 
award the aforementioned payment. Rather,  it was Amex that arranged for the respective 
payments to be claimed directly from T's customers.  Therefore, T asserts  that WorldPay 
hasnt awarded  anything towards the missing payments.  
Secondly, based on the information available to it, T proclaims that its unable to locate or 
track down  these previous customers. Consequently, T presents that its unreasonable to 
expect it to try and reclaim from customers for whom  no records  exist and who are no longer 
clients of the company.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN60730682I acknowledge Ts submission that payment has been waged from Ts consumers. And that 
this involved Amex making the necessary  arrangements for this to happen. However,  I am 
not persuaded that WorldPay did not act to resolve  the outstanding  payments. It remains 
that WorldPay holds  the direct  contractual relationship with T. So, it strikes me that these 
payments still related  to the merchant  services agreement in place with WorldPay.  Amex 
received information  that WorldPay sent it in 2018. Including the contract itself  which  
permitted Amex to help T claim  payments from its customers. Indeed, by Amexs admission,  
obtaining these  payments  was unmanageable without this agreement. 
In light of this and my provisional findings, its my judgment that WorldPay  did act all be it in 
what could be seen  as indirectly perhaps to assist  T in recovering outstanding  revenue 
owed for its services. And it helped successfully recover a sizeable share of the overall 
amount that T claims its owed. Typically, compensation can be defined  as an award  given 
in recognition of a loss of some sort. Its with this in mind that I refer to WorldPay 
compensating T for its unpaid income. I say this because,  WorldPay  took action in response 
to the complaint that T made about  this very loss. And it was effective in helping to recover  
some payments that can be offset against the overall unsettled  amount.  
I also recognise the difficulty T may now encounter in seeking  restitution from prior 
customers. I understand that the allotted  time to seek recovery through Amex  may have now 
expired, and certain information may be irretrievable from sources  such as WorldPay.   
That said,  Im still not satisfied that its reasonably  foreseeable, from WorldPays  point of 
view, that the missing  payments could  go unnoticed  for four years  without  there being some  
causal or contributory  negligence  on the part of T. Particularly, as the contract makes it 
reasonably clear that T is obliged to monitor and reconcile  payments, or the lack of 
payments. Moreover,  despite the trouble with finding  former  customers information from 
WorldPay  T could still have kept its own records, aside from the data WorldPay held. 
Accordingly, such record keeping couldve  allowed T to now seek  recompense from its 
historical customers.  
Likewise, if T had been paying careful attention to its accounts, it would probably have 
noticed the deficit earlier and then been able to get it rectified and/or seek  restitution directly  
from those customers whod unwittingly benefitted from services for which  theyd not been 
charged. This timelier  action would likely  have permitted  T to seek  recovery  through  avenues  
such as Amex, within the granted timeframe(s). 
Ultimately, its my judgment that this failure constituted an intervening act which, at worst, 
must relieve  WorldPay of liability  because  the chain of causation has been broken. Or, at 
best, must  affect  the fair level of compensation on the basis  that there is contributory 
negligence which reduces WorldPays liability.
In any event, it remains arguable that T has not proven actual loss given that, on the face of 
things, it has an equitable right to restitution from its customers for money owed. Those
customers arent entitled to such windfalls unless  they can show that T knowingly  waived  its
rights to its detriment and/or they have already irrevocably disposed  of the windfall in good
faith. Therefore,  although T may now be unable to pursue  these outstanding payments  
through Amex  because  of the elapsed  time-window  in place  its my opinion that this 
doesnt rule out seeking restitution outside of such means, i.e. through  alternative  debt 
recovery methods. 
Ref: DRN60730683In all of the circumstances, I can see the reasonableness  of WorldPays  argument that 
reimbursement should rightfully be made  by Ts customers. It follows  that I do not require 
WorldPay to do anything  further for the complaint. For the avoidance of doubt,  T can pursue 
these claims of restitution  separate  to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6073068