K821x#15complaint
Ms A says Evergreen Finance London  Limited (trading as Money Boat) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  Money  Boat provided to Ms A between February 
2016 and May 2018. Ms As borrowing history is as follows:
 
Loan NoDate taken Date repaid Instalments Capital Highest monthly repayment
1 12/02/2016 18/03/2016 3 £400 £166.57
2 10/05/2016 03/06/2016 2 £400 £234.95
3* 15/12/2016 19/05/2017 6 £500 £132.41
4 06/06/2017 30/08/2017 6 £600 £168.45
5 03/01/2018 24/04/2018 6 £400 £113.76
6 10/05/2018 outstanding 6 £600 £163.91
* There was a significant gap between loans two and three  so Ive considered Ms As lending as two 
separate chains of loans.
Ms As case has been looked at by two adjudicators,  the second adjudicator upheld the 
complaint and explained why they thought that Money Boat shouldnt have given any of the 
loans to Ms A  but Money Boat didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Money Boat needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Money Boat should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN64598672the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Money Boat was required to establish 
whether Ms A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms As complaint.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms As complaint  in full and said that none of the loans  shouldve  
been given to Ms A. They explained that it was clear from the credit searches Money Boat 
completed that Ms A had a high level of reliance on credit  and this shouldve  prompted 
Money Boat to do further checks  had it done so, it wouldve  seen that Ms A had other 
short-term loans and was making payments  to a debt management company. They  said that 
Money Boat shouldve realised that it was unlikely  that Ms A wouldve been  able to 
sustainably make her repayments.
Money Boat disagreed  it said that it completed proportionate checks were  undertaken 
given the infancy of the lending relationship. It also said that it would be unrealistic and 
impractical to review  every line of credit while providing a quick  and efficient service   and 
they have found no guidance that says that are obliged to do so. 
But while I accept that at the beginning  of a lending relationship,  proportionate  checks  may 
be less thorough (I also consider this to be the case for loan three where had been a 
significant gap in the lending relationship) this does not mean that information that has been 
gathered should  be ignored.  
And as the credit  checks Money Boat obtained showed that Ms A had a high level of credit,  
this shouldve prompted Money Boat to do further checks  such  as verifying the information 
she had provided  in order to fully understand  Ms As financial position.  And had Money Boat 
done that for each loan it wouldve likely seen that she had five existing  short-term  loans and 
was using a very high percentage  of her available credit  and that she wasnt in as position 
to take on further  lending.  Money Boat shouldve realised that Ms A wasnt likely to be in a 
position to sustainably repay  her loans, and subsequently decided not to enter  into a lending  
relationship with her. I can also see that Ms As financial situation didnt improve  and the 
credit check  Money Boat completed when she applied for loan three showed that she was 
actually now in a worse financial position than before. 
Ref: DRN64598673I would also refer Money Boat back to the original  file it sent to this service  where it 
explained the following;
Each credit file is reviewed by our Underwriters  to ascertain whether the customer  meets 
our lending criteria or not. To provide a brief overview we look for the common  indicators of 
financial difficulty, inclusive of their credit  score,  credit history,  insolvency markers, CCJs, 
debt management  markers etc. The customers repayment history with us (if they are a 
returning customer) would be an additional  factor in any lending decision we make.  The first 
check we perform is in regards to their credit report; if the results of this report  do not meet  
our lending criteria;  the application will be declined. Alongside the credit check, we request 
income and expenditure details from each customer at the application stage to assess their 
ability to meet the monthly instalments. 
This seems to suggest  that even at the beginning of a lending relationship, Money  Boat does 
take the time to examine the credit  report, and to look out for signs of financial  distress  it 
also increased Ms Ss expenditure  accordingly. And, as it has seen  the information, I think 
this shouldve prompted it to investigate Ms Ss financial situation more  carefully. Had it done 
so, like the adjudicator,  I feel that it wouldve reached the decision not to enter in to a lending 
relationship with Ms S at all.
It follows that Im also upholding the complaint  about  loans  one to six, and Money  Boat 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Money Boat needs to do
You shouldnt have given Ms A any of the loans.
If you have sold the outstanding debts,  you should  buy these back if you are able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If you are not able to buy the debts back, then you should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A)You should add together  the total of the repayments made by Ms A towards interest, 
fees and charges on loans 1-5, not including anything you have already refunded.
B)You should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments  made  by Ms A 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms A originally  made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C)You should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance from loan 6, and 
treat any repayments made by Ms A as though  they had been repayments  of the 
principal on all outstanding  loans. If this results in Ms A having made overpayments  
then you should  refund these  overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled. You should  then refund the amounts  calculated  in A and 
B and move to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans (and any 
principal youve already written-off). If this results in a surplus, then the surplus 
should be paid to Ms A. However,  if there  is still an outstanding balance  then you 
Ref: DRN64598674should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms A. You shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made  up of principal you have already  written-off.
E)You should remove any adverse information  recorded on Ms As credit file in relation 
to loans one to six.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  You should  give
Ms A a certificate  showing  how much  tax youve  deducted, if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms As complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6459867