K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that TSB Bank plc wont raise a chargeback  on her behalf to reclaim 
payments that she says should be refunded to her.
background
Miss W is a customer of TSB and she used her account with it to make  a number of 
payments to join a car club. Miss W had been  a member of the car club for approximately  six 
months when her payments stopped because the car club company  went  into liquidation.
Miss W was contacted by the administrators who explained the potential next steps. One 
avenue it said that might be open members  of the car club was the possibility of raising 
claims to get their money  back through a chargeback or a claim under section 75 of the 
consumer credit act.
Miss W then contacted TSB, who refused to raise a chargeback  as it didnt think it had a 
reasonable chance of success.  TSB said that Miss W had paid the monthly  payments in 
exchange for membership  of the car club and this is what she had received. It said had 
payments been  taken  after the company had been  placed into liquidation,  then it wouldve 
had a reason  to raise a chargeback.  And it looked at the terms of her agreement with the 
car club and this gave  no certainty of receiving a car in a particular  timeframe.
Miss W was unhappy with this and the amount of time TSB had taken in dealing with her 
complaint. Miss W believes a chargeback should be raised. Shes told us other  people  from 
the car club had raised a chargeback and this had been successful, so TSB should do the 
same.
Our investigator looked into the case but he concluded that TSB hadnt  made  an error.
Miss W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider  the case. She said the fact 
others had been  successful using a chargeback on debit cards, meant  that she thought she 
must have  a good  chance of success.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  Im required to determine is whether TSB shouldve done  more  to assist  Miss W in 
her attempts to recover  money from the car club that she joined.  A bank doesnt generally 
become responsible for the actions of an independent third party simply because the 
customer paid using  their debit card. Where a chargeback  right exists and theres a
reasonable prospect of success, as a matter of good practice Id expect a bank to attempt to 
assist its customer by raising a dispute.
The chargeback scheme  is a voluntary  one. Its a process by which  payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants,  under the relevant card scheme  
rules. What this means here is that TSB can in some  circumstances  ask for a transaction to 
be reversed if theres  a problem with the goods or services supplied  by the merchant. But 
the chargeback  process doesnt  give consumers  legal  rights and it isnt guaranteed  to result 
in a refund. But to do so, there  first has to be a right to apply  for a chargeback under the card 
scheme rules.
Ref: DRN65072402Under the card scheme rules, chargeback has to be raised under a specific reason  or as its 
known a chargeback  code.  So if TSB was to raise a chargeback on Miss Ws behalf,  it 
wouldve had to make  sure the reason  correlated to one of these codes.  Having looked  at 
Miss Ws complaint and the codes that could  be relevant, I dont think  Miss Ws claim is valid 
under any of these  codes.  It appears that Miss Ws claim is based on the fact she didnt 
receive a car or she didnt  get the service  she paid for. 
The relevant  codes for this would be goods/services not as described and/or good/services 
not received. But Ive looked at the contractual agreement between her and the car club and 
ultimately what she was paying  for was membership of the club, which she did receive up 
until the company  went into liquidation.
Miss W was a member of the car club from November to April. The contract says that, this 
is a membership referral plan that can realistically  be implemented in 6 to 9 months but 
even then there is no promise of a car unless certain targets are achieved. The success  of 
the scheme and for the individual  members such as Miss W, relied on members recruiting 
new membership and so on. It appears  to be a multi-level marketing scheme, although Miss 
W says it isnt.
In any event, to receive a car Miss W needed  to have some considerable success  in 
recruiting people to the club who would then actively  recruit further. Im not aware that Miss 
W did get the required  numbers needed  before liquidation occurred.
So based  on the evidence Ive seen,  it doesnt look like there  was a breach of contract  or 
that Miss W didnt receive the services shed  paid for. As far as Im aware, Miss W hadnt  
achieved the targets  needed to receive  a car. So in fact all she had paid for was the chance  
to get the car. And thats what she received, albeit for a shorter time than shed  have 
expected.
So I dont  think TSB was wrong in saying it wouldnt raise a chargeback request as I dont 
think it had a reasonable chance of success.
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided  based on the card schemes rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. I know that Miss W says that other  
members of the scheme have had successful chargeback  and section 75 claims. Miss W 
doesnt qualify  under section 75 as she didnt use a credit card to make  the payments. And I 
cant comment on the success of other  claims as I dont know  the details. It could be that the 
circumstances were  different, such as payments taken after liquidation  or issues  with the 
lease of a car. But based on the evidence presented to me, I dont think TSB has acted 
unfairly here.
Miss W has also told us that shes unhappy  with how TSB dealt with her complaint. But as 
this complaint hasnt  been upheld and complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated activity, 
Im not able to consider this further. 
I sympathise with the situation Miss W has found  herself in. But ultimately she purchased a 
membership of a car club, and not a car. She did receive that membership up until the 
company was liquidated. I dont think she was due any goods from the car club, so I dont 
think there is a valid chargeback code. So any dispute she has about this is a matter 
between her and those responsible for the car club.
Ref: DRN65072403Miss W can still pursue the car club through other means but I dont think TSB has to do 
anymore to assist  her with this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint  and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6507240