K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says The Co-operative  Bank PLC, trading as Britannia (The Co-op), mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in 2009 at the same time as taking out a further advance on her 
mortgage. She applied for the further advance and PPI policy  in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs M for unemployment  subject  to its exclusions and 
limitations. At the outset it offered to repay £461.72  a month  towards Mrs Ms mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £13.87  a month.  
At the time,  Mrs M was employed as an account  manager. She has told us she was entitled  
to between three- and six-months  employee sick pay if she was too unwell to work.  Mrs M 
didnt tell us of any other financial  means, such as savings, she could have relied upon to 
make her mortgage repayments in the event  she wasnt working. Mrs M told us she was 
entitled to three months redundancy pay if she lost her job as well as death in service 
benefit. Mrs M told us of two medical conditions she suffered from some time before the 
sale. 
The Co-op has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2005  and 
closed in 2014. 
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
The Co-op failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means The Co-op  should  
have told Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means The Co-op  should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN67435422The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN67435423In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
The Co-op, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so The Co-op was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 when  
considering Mrs Ms complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If The Co-op gave  advice, whether it advised  Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether The Co-op gave Mrs M sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN67435424including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and The 
Co-op, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
The Co-op had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The Co-op has been able to give us copies of the documentation  from the time of the sale. 
This includes the further advance application  the Home Owner  Loan Application  as well 
as the offer letter and PPI application. I see from the offer letter there  is a section entitled 
Insurance where it says,  You are not obliged to take out any insurance through Britannia 
Building Society. I think this makes  clear that Mrs M didnt have  to take the PPI with 
Britannia. 
Miss M also completed a PPI application form, which  was separate  from the mortgage 
application itself.  This was completed by hand  and it is signed  and dated by Mrs M. Its clear 
from this that Mrs M opted for unemployment cover only  rather than accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment cover  and chose the amount of cover required  so Mrs M evidently made a 
choice about the type of cover that would be of most benefit to her. And I also note that    
Mrs M had to complete  a separate  bank direct debit  mandate in order for the monthly 
premiums to be debited  from her bank account.  
Mrs M had already had a mortgage with The Co-op  since 2005  without PPI  so she was 
aware she didnt  have to take the PPI in order for the lending to be granted. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs M knew the policy was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did The Co-op  provide  advice?
Both The Co-op and Mrs M agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  The Co-op had to advise Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that The Co-op took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M. The adviser had information about some  of Mrs Ms financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  its clear  from the PPI 
application that Mrs M answered some limited questions to try and establish  whether Mrs M 
was eligible for the policy   by asking questions about her wider circumstances such  as any 
potential unemployment   I dont think it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable. For 
Ref: DRN67435425example, it didnt consider whether Mrs M had any other financial means  she could have 
relied upon.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded The Co-op did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs M given her circumstances. So, 
Im not persuaded The Co-op advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded The Co-op did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mrs Ms ability to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs M was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
she says she would  have been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M. There  
was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions Mrs M has told us 
about Mrs M was only covered for unemployment  benefit so any pre-existing medical 
conditions wouldnt have  been  a factor if she had needed to claim if she lost her job. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mrs M be unemployed for 60 days 
before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mrs Ms circumstances, 
the fact the policy  protected the mortgage repayments relating to her home and the 
potential consequences  should Mrs M be unable to make  the repayments on loans  
secured against  her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  The Co-op gave Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  The Co-
op was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs M was 
unable to work through unemployment and of the approximate  costs. I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mrs M would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  The Co-op gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mrs M agreed 
to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M, Im not persuaded The Co-op 
Ref: DRN67435426did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded The Co-op gave Mrs M all of the information  
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that The Co-op ought  to have done either.  
what effect did The Co-ops shortcomings have  on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that The Co-op  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs M. 
So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had The Co-op done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded The Co-op took the steps it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs M, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if The Co-op had explained things 
properly, Mrs M would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mrs M says she wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN67435427Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when The Co-op advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of unemployment,  she concluded she wanted  that product. But she 
made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what she thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs M was given about the benefit was clear.  
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the cost, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs M knew she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear The Co-op told her the exact  premium  at the point Mrs M 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Mrs M would have been told the cost 
before the policy started and she paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the costs  
were significantly  at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might 
have raised that with The Co-op at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  The Co-op  made  clear exactly what  Mrs M would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ms expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs M pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs M was eligible for its benefits and it 
Ref: DRN67435428provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs M wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs M was in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  she had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The Co-op may not have told Mrs M that any claim  she made  would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs Ms employee redundancy pay she told us about.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs M would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs M be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk  for 
which she was solely responsible  and might  potentially  help preserve Mrs Ms redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs M was made redundant. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs M would  have taken out the policy  in any 
event notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN67435429Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude The Co-op should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks The Co-op misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of The 
Co-ops statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why The Co-op 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information The Co-op gave Mrs M, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2009 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find The Co-op negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that The Co-op had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6743542