K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc handled and settled 
a claim they made under their home  insurance policy after they suffered an escape of water.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  a home insurance policy, which is underwritten  by RSA. On 9 October 
2017 they contacted  RSA to report water  damage  to their property following a leak from their 
dishwasher. The escape of water  caused damage to the flooring, kickboards, some  of the 
kitchen unit carcasses and side panels and dishwasher.
Due to the extent of damage reported  RSA instructed a loss adjuster, who Ill refer to as S 
in this decision, to attend Mr and Mrs Ms property to inspect the damage  it had sustained 
and oversee their claim. S scoped the works  required to remedy the damage caused by the 
escape of water. But Mr and Mrs M decided they wanted to refit the kitchen themselves. And 
they wanted their claim settled by way of a cash settlement. They obtained quotes to show 
what they thought it would cost to restore their kitchen to its pre-loss  state.
S reviewed the quotes Mr and Mrs M had obtained  for the repairs to their kitchen, which  
included the cost of replacing their granite worktop. However, it disagreed with Mr and Mrs M 
that this item needed to be replaced. It said the worktop was undamaged  and could be 
reused. So, RSA declined to replace Mr and Mrs Ms worktop.
Mr and Mrs M complained to RSA that it wasnt willing to cover  the replacement cost of their 
granite worktop.  In its final response to their complaint, RSA explained that the worktop 
hadnt been damaged  by the escape  of water. So, it wasnt  willing to change  its decision 
about not replacing for this item. It did, however, agree to replace the worktop  if it became  
damaged during the reinstatement process. Overall,  RSA offered  Mr and Mrs M just under 
£4650 as a cash  settlement  less the £100 excess applicable under  their policy. And it stated 
that, alternatively, it could  appoint its own contractors to complete the required remedial 
works.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to our service where our 
investigator upheld  it. Overall, they thought  the cash settlement offer RSA made  to Mr and 
Mrs M was fair. However, they felt RSA should  also replace the sink area of granite worktop 
in their kitchen given its likelihood of being  damaged during the removal  and reinstatement 
process. Mr and Mrs M agreed with our investigators view. But RSA disagreed and asked  
an ombudsman to review  this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake,  or treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly,  
such that it needs to now put things right.
Its not in dispute  that Mr and Mrs Ms property sustained damage  following a leak from their 
dishwasher and that this loss is covered under  their policy. The issue  here is whether the 
way in which RSA has offered  to settle  their claim is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN60009882In this case RSA has agreed  to pay Mr and Mrs M a cash settlement, which it feels  will 
restore their kitchen to its pre-loss state.  But its clear Mr and Mrs M disagree with the 
amount theyve been offered. They think the cash settlement RSA offered is below the 
estimates they obtained and say theyd accept  £6000  in settlement of their claim.
The most recent quote drawn up by a loss adjuster on revisiting  Mr and Mrs Ms property 
came to just over £3950  including VAT.  Im satisfied that this largely matched the scope of 
works originally quoted  by S during  2017,  which came to a much  higher cost. And I think,  in 
deciding to honour the older higher quote, RSA have acted fairly. 
The only item excluded  from the recent quote  (other than the worktop)  was the cost of a 
replacement sink. Mr and Mrs M have an undermount sink, which they were advised would, 
most likely, be damaged by the removal of their worktop.  Based  on what  Ive seen Im 
persuaded damage would  be likely.  So, I think the sink should be replaced. 
I can see Mr and Mrs M have identified a sink theyd like to purchase, which  costs  around 
£270. When this cost is added to the recent quote its still significantly lower than the cash  
settlement offer RSA made. So, I think the existing offer can be viewed as already including 
the cost of a replacement sink.
In the overall circumstances  of this complaint, I dont think  the cash settlement offer RSA 
made is unfair. I say this because Mr and Mrs Ms policy, in common with many  home  
insurance policies,  allows RSA to settle this claim in a number of ways.  The terms of their 
insurance policy allow RSA to repair or replace  an item or make a money payment instead. 
They explain  in clear  and intelligible  language  that if RSA agrees to pay a cash settlement 
the amount wont normally exceed what it would have paid its preferred supplier.
So, under the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, is RSA is entitled to deduct any discounts 
available from any cash settlement it agrees to pay. And I think  this explains why the amount 
its offered is less than the costings Mr and Mrs M have drawn  up and would like RSA to pay. 
Mr and Mrs M have  granite worktops  on top of their kitchen cupboards. I can see that RSA 
have agreed to replace kitchen cupboards that were  damaged by the escape of water. But 
there is a disagreement  between  RSA and Mr and Mrs M as to whether it should  replace 
their granite  worktop or remove and refit the existing one. So, Ive thought about what  course  
of action I think RSA should  take here.
Mr and Mrs M said they approached a number of companies to obtain quotes for removing 
and refitting their granite worktop.  However,  the only company that would agree to remove 
and refit the worktop initially quoted them around  £900 to do so. I can see it later reduced  
that quote to £756. Mr and Mrs M said this company warned them  there was a high risk the 
worktop could chip or smash, which it wouldnt accept responsibility  for.
Based on the evidence  our investigator  considered they recommended  that RSA replace the 
granite worktop.  But RSA disagreed with that recommendation. It said it would only do so if 
the worktop was damaged during the reinstatement process. And it pointed  our investigator 
to the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, which state:
We will only pay for lost or damaged items and not for the cost of replacing,  recovering or
remodeling undamaged pieces, or pieces which have not been lost or damaged.
Ref: DRN60009883As RSA argues  that it has no liability in replacing  the granite worktop because its currently 
undamaged Ive considered that term very carefully.  Having  done so, I dont think  it can be 
read as applying strictly to the circumstances of this complaint. Ill explain why.
The size of the granite worktop is substantial  and its very heavy. I can see that Mr and Mrs 
M have obtained a detailed  quote  which explains why removing and refitting the worktop  
would, most  likely, cause damage. This quote also advises that, in the event the existing 
worktop was damaged,  the time to make and supply a new surface would be around five 
weeks, which would mean they would be without  a work surface during that time.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen Im not persuaded the existing worktop could be removed 
and replaced without being  damaged. And the view our service takes supports the premise  
that the worktop should be replaced.
I appreciate that RSA could opt to remove the worktop and see if it breaks on refitting. But I 
think this would be unfair to Mr and Mrs M because  the evidence  Ive seen indicates that, if 
the worktop was damaged during that process, theyd encounter  a substantial delay in a new 
worktop being made and supplied to them. I think this, again, demonstrates why it would be 
better here to replace  the worktop.  And Im not persuaded that this would  place Mr and Mrs 
M in a more favourable position as theyve no intention of reusing the old worktop.
The kitchen worktop is in three parts  and I understand that the sink section is 2.4 metres in 
length. Mr and Mrs M provided a quote which included the sink section together  with two 
other granite worktops, the uprights  and window sills, which are also granite.  They  say if they 
replaced the sink section  alone it may not match the remaining granite worktop due to 
variances of colour caused by the mining  process.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms concerns here. However, the terms and conditions of their 
insurance policy explain how RSA settles  claims involving  matching  items. They  explain:
We will not pay forreplacing  or changing  undamaged items  which  belong  to a set or suite 
or which have a common design or use when the damage is restricted  to a specific part or 
clearly defined area. For example each separate item of a matching set of sanitary  fittings, 
fitted kitchen units, matching sofas and chairs or other fixtures  and fittings  is regarded  as a 
single item.
So, RSAs  liability to replace the worktop  is limited  to the sink section. It doesnt extend  to 
the other granite surfaces in the kitchen.  And I dont think it would be unreasonable  for RSA 
to restrict replacement of the granite worktop  in this way. Overall, Im satisfied RSA should 
settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim  by paying  them the cost it would incur to replace the single sink 
section worktop. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve this complaint Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc should: 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £4540.58.
Pay the cost it would  incur in replacing  the sink section  of granite worktop.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020
Ref: DRN60009884Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6000988