K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about TSB Bank plc (TSB) regarding a card he was sent in error after he 
had closed his account, the address details held on file for him, and issues in complaint 
handling he experienced when he contacted  TSB. 
background
Mr G is a former customer of TSB. 
In Spring 2018, he closed his account,  citing poor customer service  he had received in 
branch as one of his reasons for leaving TSB. When he had held an account he provided his 
address details, giving the second line of his address, relating to the town/borough  correctly. 
In August  2018,  Mr G received a letter  from TSB, enclosing a new debit card,  despite having  
closed his account some months earlier. The address used by TSB was that held by Royal  
Mail, which used a different second  line of the address, and a different borough. The first line 
of address and postcode were, however, correct.  
Mr G contacted TSB and was concerned  that his account details were still active, and that 
fraud may be being committed on his account.  
TSB replied to Mr G, apologising that the card was sent in error and confirming that the 
account remained closed.  TSB stated  that the address used was correct as held by Royal 
Mail. TSB apologised  for the inconvenience  caused and offered Mr G £75 to reflect  his 
distress and inconvenience, and a further  £2 to reflect his postage costs. 
Mr G replied, accepting the offer. Mr G asked some  supplemental questions  and referred to 
parts of his previous correspondence  which he did not think had been  answered. 
TSB subsequently  sent Mr G a cheque for £77, and set out his referral rights  to refer his 
complaint to us if he remained  unhappy.
Mr G sent further correspondence  to TSB, and despite parts of this being  acknowledged, did 
not receive further responses to his comments. 
Mr G then contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into Mr Gs concerns and set out his view to the parties. 
This was that TSB had made a reasonable offer to reflect its issues  in service and he did not 
recommend it do anything further.
Mr G was not happy with that view and made  further  comments  to our service. He requested 
that an ombudsman  make a decision on his complaint.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before setting out my decision, I feel it is important to clarify  the limits of this service.
Ref: DRN67056502The ombudsman service  looks into complaints from consumers relating to regulated  
services, provided by financial businesses. Where  a business has done something wrong or 
unfair in relation to its regulated activities we can direct it to put things right.  
We can also look at services  which  are ancillary to banking  services provided to a consumer, 
but complaint  handling  is not a stand alone regulated  activity.  Consequently some areas of 
Mr Gs complaint fall outside  the remit of this service.
Mr G has made a number of comments regarding the adequacy of TSBs responses  to his 
letters, or TSBs non responses to his letters. He has also complained  about  the number 
provided on a standard letter as this number took him to a service  which  could only be used 
by existing customers, rather than former customers which by that time he was. 
Whilst I understand that these issues have caused Mr G frustration, and inconvenience as 
he has continued to write  letters at his cost, these issues  do not related to regulated activity 
provided to him as a consumer, and I cannot  consider these.
I am able to consider Mr Gs complaint about  receiving the card in error, and his concern 
regarding the address  held for him. 
TSB acknowledges  that he card was sent out as a system  error,  and it has apologised for 
this. TSB offered compensation for Mr Gs distress  and inconvenience, and confirmed that 
Mr Gs accounts were  closed. I think this is reasonable and sufficient. 
Mr G has expressed  concern that TSB has continued to use the second line of his address 
as held by Royal Mail,  rather than the address line he provided when he was an account 
holder. I again  think it is reasonable for TSB to rely upon information provided by Royal  Mail,  
in respect of a postal  correspondence address. Post addressed  in this way has reached Mr 
G and I cannot see that any harm  has been caused  by TSBs use of the Royal Mail version 
of Mr Gs address. Now that Mr Gs account is closed he should not receive further 
correspondence from TSB in any event.  
TSB has confirmed that Mr Gs details will be held for 6 years from the account closure date,  
in line with data protection  laws. I think that this response is reasonable. 
Overall, looking at the experience Mr G received  as a former customer,  I think that whilst 
there were failings in the card being  sent out, TSB has responded appropriately and 
reasonably to these.  
The remainder of Mr Gs comments relate to complaint handling, or to our service, and I am 
not able to consider these comments.  
Consequently, whilst  I realise that this will be disappointing to Mr G, I do not uphold his 
complaint and do not ask TSB Bank plc to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint  and do not ask TSB Bank 
plc to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Ref: DRN67056503Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6705650