K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the amount of compensation The Co-operative  Bank Plc (The Co-op)  
has offered to settle his complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy attached  to his credit  card.
background
Mr H took out a credit card with a PPI policy  in June 2004. It was taken out with another 
business but The Co-op has agreed to take responsibility for the sale.  
Mr H complained the PPI was mis-sold  and The Co-op agreed to uphold his complaint and 
offered him compensation of £137.05.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service  as he wasnt happy with the offer as he said the 
compensation should be more as he paid the PPI for longer that The Co-op  said. 
Our adjudicator said what The Co-op had offered was fair. But Mr H still didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The Co-op has agreed to uphold  Mr Hs complaint that the PPI was mis-sold. So in this 
decision Im not looking  at how the PPI came to be sold to Mr H Im only looking at if the 
compensation offered by The Co-op  is fair.
Mr H opened his credit card account  in June 2004. From the records provided  of the account 
by The Co-op  I can see the first PPI premium was added  in August 2004 and the last in 
January 2005.  So it was only actually  active on the account for 6 months. In that time 
premiums of £48.32  were  charged to the account  for PPI. Some card rate interest was also 
charged on this amount  as it was part of the balance. 
The credit card remained active until October 2006. At this time the records  show  Mr H 
stopped making  payments to the account. He had also missed a couple  of payments before 
this in August  2004 and March 2005.  In November 2008 the debt on the account was sold to 
a third party.
Mr H says he doesnt agree he only paid the PPI for six months to January 2005 and he isnt 
happy the The Co-op has shown this was the case. 
The records  actually show the amounts  paid each month for PPI to January 2005. 
The Co op has also sent to Mr H his account statements for January and February 2005. 
The January  statement  shows a PPI premium being  added to the account and the February 
statement shows no PPI being  added.  
I have seen nothing  to show that PPI was charged  to the account other than during the six 
months that have been indicated. So I think what The Co-op has worked out as the PPI 
Ref: DRN60293072costs of £48.32  plus account rate interest  is fair. The Co-op has also worked out that Mr H 
paid £62.00 in charges because of the PPI that had been added to his account. Looking  at 
the account balances and records this also seems fair.
So in total The Co-op is refunding the PPI premiums of £48.32, charges of £62.00 and card 
rate interest of £8.52. The Co-op has also then added £22.76 to the compensation, which is 
8% simple  interest per year for all the time Mr H was out of pocket because  of the PPI. It has 
taken tax off this simple  interest, as required by HM Revenue and Customs.  So its total offer 
was £137.05.
The Co-op gave  Mr H the choice as to whether he wanted this amount paying  to the third 
party who bought the debt in 2008, to reduce anything he may still owe.  Or he could choose 
to have the compensation paid directly  to himself. As The Co-op  no longer owns the debt 
this is a reasonable approach but as Mr H indicates  he has repaid the third party I am 
satisfied the compensation should be paid directly  to Mr H.
I have seen no evidence  that gives any indication that the offer of compensation to refund 
the costs of the PPI should be more  than The Co-op has offered. If the compensation has 
not yet been paid the Co-op  should update the 8% simple interest calculation to the date of 
final settlement. It should make the payment directly to Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im satisfied that the compensation  offered by The Co-
operative Bank Plc of £137.05 net was fair. However  if the compensation has not yet been 
paid the 8% simple  interest should  be updated  to the date of final settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Christin Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6029307