K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains about the cash settlement Argo Direct Limited  offered  her following her 
home insurance claim for damage  caused  by an escape of water. She also complains that 
she experienced delays with her claim.  
background
At the end of November 2018  Mrs O discovered a leak from a pipe in her kitchen. She 
notified her home emergency provider who attended to stop the leak and repair the pipe. 
Mrs O then made a claim to Argo under her home insurance policy  for the damage caused  
by the leak to the kitchen floor and to her mobile phone. 
Argo appointed  a claims validation company to validate the claim. It visited  Mrs O at home  
on 20 December 2018. The validator  emailed  Argo the same day to recommend it appoint  a 
loss adjuster due to the nature of the damage and the need  to draw up a scope of works. It 
said itd asked Mrs O to provide some  evidence that the repair had been  carried  out 
(provided on 17 January  2019)  and for proof of purchase/repair  for the mobile phone. The 
claims validation company chased  Mrs O for the phone evidence in mid-February. Mrs O 
said she didnt think shed  be able to get the documents needed so she withdrew  her claim 
for the damaged phone.  The claims validation company then issued its report  to Argo  on 19 
February 2019. 
The loss adjuster appointed by Argo visited Mrs O at the end of December  2018  and 
reported to Argo  at the start of January 2019 that the water had damaged  the laminate floor 
in the kitchen. The loss adjuster said the kitchen  base units would  need  to be removed  so 
the floor could be replaced.  A schedule of works  was prepared  and costed.
On 15 March 2019 Argo offered to cash settle  Mrs Os claim for £1,761. Argo had initially 
offered to appoint a contractor to carry out the repairs but Mrs O said she would prefer to 
receive a cash settlement  because shed heard how bad dealing  with contractors could be. 
Mrs O sent Argo  a quote from her own contractor  for the works which came to £3,300  
excluding VAT. The loss adjuster reviewed the quote and asked her to provide a detailed  
breakdown of the costs associated with each  work  area so it could assess  whether the 
works differed from those  itd scoped for. Mrs O said she didnt  think a more  detailed 
breakdown was necessary. She said her husband  was in the building  trade and he thought 
the existing quote was sufficient. She said the loss adjuster had indicated  the claim was 
worth over £3,000. The loss adjuster  explained that without a more detailed  breakdown  the 
claim couldnt move forward.
Mrs O complained to Argo about  the amount shed been offered and the delay in settling her 
claim. She said she thought a settlement figure of £3,500 was more appropriate and she 
said wanted compensation for the delays shed experienced. 
Argo looked into Mrs Os complaint and thought that a fair settlement had been offered in 
line with the policy terms. It didnt think itd unreasonably asked her for a detailed breakdown 
of her own contractors quote  before being  willing  to consider it. It said there had been some 
minor delays with her claim  for which it apologised. 
Ref: DRN66258072Unhappy with the outcome of Argos investigation,  Mrs O complained  to this service.  Our 
investigator looked into her complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  He thought 
the settlement  offered  was reasonable and in line with the policy terms as was Argos 
request for a breakdown  of the works covered by the quote before it was prepared  to 
consider it further.  He thought that Argos apology for the minor  delays  was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs O disagreed with our investigators findings.  She referred to the quote and asked what 
further details  Argo expected her to provide. She said dealing with Argo had caused her a lot 
of trouble and upset  and it had caused delays to the claim. She sent our investigator a copy  
of the repair  receipt  for the mobile phone. Our investigator looked again  at Mrs Os complaint 
but wasnt persuaded to change his mind.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions form the basis of the contract  between  Mrs O and Argo. It is 
there that it is set out how Argo will settle the claims it receives.  I have to decide if Argo  has 
fairly applied  these terms to Mrs Os claim and I have to say I think  it has. Ill explain why. 
The policy states:  
We will pay for the cost of reinstating, repairing  or replacing your buildings  and/or  contents 
which are covered by this policyWe will decide  whether  to reinstate, repair,  replace or pay 
you the cash valueWhere we have offered to repair or replace any item and you instead 
request for us to pay a cash  value, we will not pay you more  than the amount it would have 
cost for us to repair or replace the item.
This means  that its is Argos choice whether to reinstate, repair, replace or pay a cash value 
for any damaged  buildings  or contents covered by the policy.  I can see that Argo chose to 
appoint its own contractor  to carry out the repair. Mrs O said shed prefer not to have Argos  
contractor do the work.  Instead Mrs O said shed prefer a cash settlement. 
The term Ive quoted above also sets out Argos obligations when one of its policyholders 
requests a cash settlement after its offered to appoint contractors to carry out a repair.  It 
says that in those  circumstances  it wont  pay more  than the amount it wouldve cost it to 
repair or replace  the item. 
Ive seen Argos costed  schedule of works for the reinstatement works and I note that they 
were to cost Argo £1,761.  This is the amount it offered Mrs O. 
Mrs O has obtained her own quote. But Argo isnt obliged by the terms of the policy to settle 
Mrs Os claim based on a quote she provides. It can choose how to settle the claim and it 
chose to repair. The means of settlement it offered Mrs O was rejected  by her but that 
doesnt mean Argo must pay her a cash value based on her quote.  It need only offer her 
what it would  cost it to carry out the works  and Im satisfied it has done so. That means I 
think it has treated her fairly  and in line with the policy  terms - in the way its offered  to 
settle her claim.
Ref: DRN66258073Argo said it would consider Mrs Os quote if a more detailed breakdown of the works it 
covered were provided by her contractor.  I know the quote  mentions some detail about 
whats covered but its unclear what the costs associated with each area requiring work  are. 
Argo wasnt obliged to consider Mrs Os quote but, having offered to do so, I dont think it 
unreasonably asked for further detail before doing so. And even if that detail were 
forthcoming, Argo isnt contractually required to settle the claim based on Mrs Os 
contractors quote.  
Ive set out in some  detail above  the timeline of the claim. I think  there  were  a few minor 
delays caused  by Argo but on the whole none of any real significance.  Having reviewed the 
file, the longer delays are where Argo is waiting for Mrs O to send it some information. I can 
see that Argo has apologised for the minor, avoidable delays its claims handling caused 
Mrs O and I think, taking all the circumstances into account, thats  fair. Im not minded to 
make Argo  do any more.  
I can see that Mrs O has sent us a copy of the receipt for the repair  of her mobile  phone. Im 
unable to make any finding about that here because I can see from Argos  file that that 
element of her claim was withdrawn. If she wishes to pursue this aspect of her claim, Mrs O 
will first need to send the receipt to Argo to consider. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6625807