K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  Barclays made it clear  that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. I say this because the PPI was sold quite some time after the card was set 
up, so it would have been reasonably  clear  that it was a separate product. And from the 
sales script Barclays was using at the time,  which  is likely  to have been followed, I think 
Mrs G would have been asked  to give her agreement to taking  the policy.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs G so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover. In saying this, Ive taken into account  
that Mrs G had some employee benefits. But I dont  think these benefits made it wrong 
for Barclays to recommend PPI.
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said  including everything she said in response to 
the adjudicator.  But these  points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
Ref: DRN68304972But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6830497