K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains about irresponsible lending for home credit  loans approved  for her by 
SD Taylor  Limited. She says that They did not take the correct  actions  to ensure the loans  
were affordable and stop lending. I was in a lot of debt and they kept offering these loans.
background
Mrs T complained to SD Taylor around 12 February  2019. It asked for information from her 
including copies of her bank statements which she sent to it. SD Taylors final response 
letter (FRL) was on 11 March 2019  and Mrs T sent to us her complaint form on the same 
day. 
SD Taylors  FRL set out a table of the 20 loans it approved for her between  August 2009 and 
December 2016.  It said that the eight loans taken between August 2009  and July 2012 were 
Time Barred and explained  this to Mrs T. In relation to the other twelve loans (Loans 9 to 
20) SD Taylor rejected her complaint grounds  and did not uphold her complaint.  
We asked for SD Taylors file and it replied: The documents enclosed is what we have 
available. Some information may no longer be available due to these being destroyed in 
compliance with our data retention  policy. 
In November 2019 one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and he considered  all the 
twenty loans.  He thought  that the pattern of lending  showed that they were  unsustainable 
and that SD Taylor  should not have given Mrs T any of loans six onwards. 
In December 2019, SD Taylors response was to make clear submissions on the time 
issues. SD Taylor was right that the issue  relating to its objection  to us looking at loans 
earlier than February  2013  (Loans 1 to 8) ought  to have been addressed first. Since  then, 
Mrs T has elected  to withdraw  from her complaint the first eight loans. SD Taylor  was 
informed of this. 
The adjudicators letter of opinion included a loan table and I use the loan numbers in that in 
this decision. 
So Loans  9 to 20 are unresolved and the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints on our website. These include  all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice about high cost credit lending - including  for home credit.
The loans for Mrs T date back to April 2009 and I am looking at Loans 9 onwards which 
dates from February 2013. In 2009  businesses were  licensed by the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT). The OFT Guide  to Irresponsible Lending  (ILG)  was published  in March 2010 
(updated in February 2011).
In April 2014, the Financial Conduct  Authority introduced its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
rules when it took over as regulator. This is referred to as CONC and reading  the earlier 
versions of CONC there are clear references  back to the specific ILG paragraphs. This 
demonstrates a continuity of the same  concept of lending responsibly. 
Ref: DRN66410882I have carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ts complaint. 
SD Taylor  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SD Taylor should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include: where a customers income  is particularly low; where the repayments  are 
particularly high; and/or  where the frequency of the loans and the length  of time over which  a 
customer has been given  loans need  to be looked  at: repeated  refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing  had become, or was becoming,  unsustainable.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
SD Taylor  was required to establish  whether Mrs T could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the OFT ILG defined sustainable as being the ability  to repay without  undue  
difficulties. In particular  the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments,  and without having to borrow to meet  
the repayments. Later, CONC  built on those same concepts enshrined in the OFT ILG. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. Mrs T explained:
I hadnt complained before as they continued to provide me with loans. Also I didnt know 
you could complain about these, when you are struggling financially and these loans are the 
only option you continue  to have then [sic] especially when they are offered to you and when 
I suffer from anxiety my gambling gets worse, its a vicious  cycle.
I have seen some of Mrs Ts bank statements for the 2009 to 2013  years,  as well as the 
statements she had already sent to SD Taylor  when it was investigating her complaint. 
Those were  for 2013 onwards. And in the statements  I have seen extensive use of gambling  
and gaming websites and Mrs T has explained  that she had a problem at the time. 
I have also looked  at the overall pattern of SD Taylors lending  history with Mrs T, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which SD Taylor  should reasonably  have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so SD Taylor should  have  
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by 
Loan 9 and I say this because:
Ref: DRN66410883from Loan 9 onwards  Mrs T was provided with a new loan often to refinance the 
previous one and sometimes  more than one at once. So SD Taylor ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mrs T was having to borrow further to cover  the 
earlier loan and to carry on borrowing. I think it would  have been apparent  that her 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably;
by Loan 9 she had been  in debt to SD Taylor for several years.  Plus, Loan 9 was the 
same amount as each  loan before it for over a year - £625. And the first £625 loan 
taken in December  2011 had been  an increase on earlier loans. Mrs T  more often 
than not  had continued  to take the same £625 loan amount from  that date, which  
demonstrates she persistently  required  that amount for her daily life and it does not 
show that these  were short-term loans  to assist with a cash-flow issue. SD Taylor 
ought to have noticed that;
Mrs T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed SD Taylor.  Mrs T had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to SD Taylor  over an 
extended period;
I think that Mrs T lost out because SD Taylor  continued  to provide borrowing from Loan 9 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ts indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit use over an extended period;
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mrs Ts 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about  Loans 9 to 20 and SD Taylor  should put things right.
putting things right
SD Taylor  needs to put things right by:
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Mrs T in respect of Loans  9 to 20;
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove each of Loans 9 to 20 from Mrs Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SD Taylor to take off tax from this interest  and it must 
give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint in part and direct that SD Taylor Limited 
put things right in the way I have said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
 
Ref: DRN66410884Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6641088