K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains about the suitability of the advice she received from Booth Wealth 
Management (UK) Ltd (Booth) to transfer her pension  plans  into a Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with Succession Wealth.  She says the advice  she was given was not fully 
explained to her. She also complains that she received the suitability report  from her adviser  
after her pension transfer had taken place  and the cooling off period had passed.
background
In June 2017, Mrs A met with Booth to receive advice on her personal finances, including  
her pension plans.  Her husband was also seeking financial advice from Booth. Hes also 
complained to this service. His complaint  is being dealt with separately.
A joint financial planning fact find was completed.  It recorded that at the time Mrs As 
personal circumstances were she:
was married to Mr A, and aged 46 years;
working as a self-employed consultant earning around £48,000 per year;
had around £103,000  in ISAs
also, around £165,000 in Personal  Pensions (PP); and
a further pension, the value of which was unknown.
A risk questionnaire was completed  in July 2017.  She was assessed as being  a balanced, 
medium risk investor.
At a further meeting  in July 2017,  Mrs A signed  letters of authority to allow  Booth to obtain 
information about her PP from the plan providers.  
By return,  it was established that the surrender values  of Mrs As PP were:
Provider 1 £ 62,953.63
Provider 2 £   2,966.64
Provider 3 £130,101.03
Mrs A was paying a 0.75% annual management charge on her Provider 1 pension  plan,  a 
0.45%  annual charge on her pension plan with Provider 2, and as Booth described  it a few 
pounds per year in charges on her Provider 3 pension plan. Booth recommended Mrs A 
move all her PP into a SIPP with Succession Wealth.
Mrs A was provided with illustrations for her SIPP and the illustrations showed the charges 
associated with the SIPP would be as follows:
£100 annual  administration fee
£50 per transfer into the SIPP
0.35%  annual wrap  charge
additional fund manager charges
2% initial  adviser charge
1% ongoing  adviser charge
Ref: DRN69863402Mrs A signed the transfer application  forms in September 2017, and one of her pensions 
was transferred into the Succession Wealth SIPP on 29 November 2017. Her other pensions 
were not transferred at that time as they were in her maiden name.
In January 2018, Booth wrote to Mrs A and told her Booth had been sold to Succession 
Wealth Management. Shortly after that, Mrs A was sent a suitability report  by Booth. The 
report was wrongly dated 8 January  2017,  but Booth accepts the report wasnt  sent until 
January 2018.  
In the suitability report Booth said the benefits of transferring to a SIPP for Mrs A were:
consolidating her pensions to make ongoing management and administration easier;
investment in fund strategies in line with her agreed risk profile, and regular 
monitoring to manage performance;
flexible access to benefits at retirement; and
full pension funds  being passed on to chosen  beneficiaries on death.
Mrs A later complained to Booth about  the suitability of the advice she received and that she 
had received the report after the transfer had gone  ahead. Booth took the view that the 
advice she had received was suitable. However,  it accepted that the suitability report  had 
been sent late due to staffing issues. As a gesture  of goodwill, it offered Mrs A (along with 
Mr A) £500 in total as compensation  for this. It concluded, however, that the content of the 
suitability report wouldnt have changed Mrs As decision to proceed  because the adviser  
had been through all the figures with her and she was fully informed before the discharge 
papers were  signed.  Mrs A didnt accept Booths offer of settlement and referred her 
complaint to this service.   
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs As complaint and concluded that the advice Mrs A had been 
given to transfer her funds  into a SIPP with Succession Wealth  was unsuitable, in her 
circumstances. Our adjudicator recommended  that Mrs As complaint was upheld.  
Our adjudicator reached this conclusion on the basis that:
transferring to the SIPP  was more expensive. Whilst Mrs As main objective 
appeared to be that she wanted  all her pension plans in one place, she didnt need to 
have a SIPP to achieve this; 
SIPPs can provide  a number of additional  options, such as allowing for more 
complex and flexible investments options. But this often means  they are more  
expensive than PP and stakeholder pensions. After reviewing the documentation, 
Mrs As circumstances didnt  indicate she needed the additional investment flexibility,  
and her needs couldve been met within a PP.
although a SIPP could offer flexible drawdown  arrangements, Mrs A was 46 years 
old. As such, she would be incurring additional costs within the SIPP  when she 
couldnt access her benefits  for at least nine years.
Booth didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  It said,  in summary:
Mrs A had been given  suitable advice as she wanted to invest  in more  diverse funds 
within her SIPP as her relationship with Booth grew; 
Mrs A specifically  asked to be placed onto a platform  to allow  her to view all her 
financial arrangements  in one place;
Ref: DRN69863403as Mrs As investment  experience grew,  her attitude to risk would change;  and
the redress set out by the adjudicator was unfair. If the aim was to put the consumer 
back into the position they would  have been had the error  not occurred, then the loss 
calculation should be assessed against  her previous investments. 
Our adjudicator responded and said, in summary,  he couldnt  see that Mrs A wanted to 
invest in a more  diverse  range of funds.  Nor could he see that it was necessary to have a 
SIPP to bring her pension  investments together. He also said that investment experience 
and attitudes to risk are not necessarily  linked. His view was that Mrs A wouldve invested  
differently had she been given suitable advice, so the recommended  benchmark was an 
appropriate measure  to assess her financial loss.
Finally, the adjudicator took into consideration the fact that Mrs As transferred fund had 
been held in cash since January 2018. Booth had made Mrs B aware of this on a number of 
occasions throughout 2018. But, he noted, Mrs A said she left her money in the cash  fund as 
she was unsure about the advice shed been provided with and this issue  had not been 
resolved.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs As complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator and for much the same reasons. I am therefore 
upholding Mrs As complaint.
To decide this complaint, I must first look at whether  the advice  Mrs A was given to transfer 
into the SIPP was suitable, in her circumstances. Secondly,  I will go on to look at whether 
Mrs A was given enough fair and clear information  to enable her to make an informed 
choice about whether  she wanted to transfer. If I find that, either the advice was unsuitable, 
or she should have  been  given better information, I must then go on to consider if Mrs A 
has lost out as a result.  
Booth didnt issue Mrs As suitability  report until some  months  after it asked Mrs A to 
complete the discharge paperwork to enable the transfers to go ahead. By the time it 
issued the report, one transfer had gone ahead and the cooling off period had expired 
during which  Mrs A couldve changed  her mind.
Booth concluded that had Mrs A received the suitability report sooner, it wouldnt have 
changed her decision  to proceed. It reached this conclusion based on the fact that Mrs A 
had been given information  upon  which to make an informed choice before the transfer 
paperwork was signed.
suitability
As pointed  out by our adjudicator, in 2008,  the regulator issued a report  entitled quality of 
advice on pension switching. The report provided examples of poor, compliant and good, 
examples of advice.  The adjudicator highlighted  some  examples from that report  of what  
may constitute unsuitable advice. These  are where:
Ref: DRN69863404 A pension that is more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a 
stakeholder pension would have fulfilled  the customers needs.
 A pension  incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example, the reason  for the switch was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
the flexibility of a drawdown option,  but there is no evidence  this option was 
needed).
In summary,  Booth said there were  four main benefits to its recommendation to transfer. 
Firstly, to provide Mrs A with investment  flexibility, secondly, to enable  her to bring  all her 
pensions together,  thirdly,  to provide more flexible drawdown options and finally for 
improved death  benefits. Ill look at each  of these in turn.
investment options
I cant see that Mrs A was looking to invest in such a way that she needed  the investment 
flexibility a SIPP afforded. Theres no suggestion,  for example, that she wanted to invest in 
commercial property. Nor can I see that she wanted to invest  in more  specialised or high-
risk investments. Given her balanced  attitude to risk, high risk investments may not have 
been considered suitable  in any event.
bringing her pensions together
Mrs As main objective seemed to be to bring  her pensions together.  But, I think  there  
probably wouldve  been other  lower cost options available  to achieve this objective. I cant 
see that the adviser explored any of these  other  options. Where there is such  a difference 
in charges, including ongoing  advice charges as there was here, I think  it wouldve been 
reasonable for Booths  adviser to provide Mrs A with a clear comparison regarding  the 
charges prior to the transfer of her pensions. I havent seen that it did so here.  
I also note that at the time of advice,  the adviser was in the process  of selling her business 
to Succession Wealth. Mrs A said she wasnt made  aware of this until after she received 
the letter about the sale in January  2018.  Booth said the business sale had been ongoing 
for around  two years and had no bearing  on the advice provided at the time. However, 
given that the adviser was providing  independent  financial  advice, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect  the adviser  to assess the full range of options and identify those that 
best suited Mrs As needs and circumstances. I cant see that the adviser did this.
flexible drawdown  options
Mrs A was 46 years old and some way off retirement. The fact find notes  recorded  that she 
intended to retire at 70. Based on what Ive seen, and whats  recorded  in the advisers  
notes, I cant see that there  was any obvious  need  at this stage of Mrs As retirement  
planning for her to move into a SIPP, to provide her with drawdown flexibility much  further  
ahead in time, when  she may or may not need that flexibility then.
Ref: DRN69863405death benefits
In relation to death benefits,  the notes recorded N/A (which Ive  taken to mean not 
applicable in the section about Family  and Financial Dependants. So, I cant see 
anything to suggest that this was a particularly important consideration for Mrs A.
Overall, like our adjudicator,  I cant see that the advice Mrs A was given to transfer her 
pensions into the Succession SIPP was suitable in her circumstances. While higher 
charges dont necessarily mean  the advice was unsuitable, Mrs As needs, in my view, 
likely couldve been met within a more cost effective PP. I cant  see that the adviser 
explored this option.
clear and fair advice
The adviser didnt  send Mrs A the suitability report until after she was asked to sign the 
discharge forms, one transfer had been made and the cooling off period for that transfer  
had expired. Booth accepted in its response  that the report was sent unacceptably  late.
Its not clear to me from the paperwork provided,  which includes notes of the meetings 
between Mr and Mrs A and the adviser, that Booth clearly explained in advance  of the 
suitability report and before it asked Mrs A to sign the discharge forms, why it was 
recommending that Mrs A switch her pensions to the SIPP.
I am therefore of the view that Mrs A was not provided with sufficient information to make  
an informed choice about transferring her pensions into the SIPP  when she was asked to 
sign the discharge forms facilitating the transfers.
has Mrs A lost out because of  the unsuitable  advice and lack of clear  and fair information?
Having concluded  that Mrs A received  unsuitable advice and was not given enough clear 
and fair information  to make an informed decision,  I must go on to consider whether she 
has lost out financially.
Booth is of the view that Mrs A wouldnt have acted  differently had she received the 
suitability report sooner. I disagree.  In reaching  this conclusion, I have looked at the 
communications between  Mrs A and her adviser.  I can see that in October  2017,  she sent 
an email seeking  to clarify the costs involved in transferring.  Within  a week of receiving the 
suitability report,  I can see that she emailed the adviser and asked her to clarify that 
nothing had been actioned yet. She queried  the amount of the charges. She queried the 
range of investment options available.  She asked for clarification as to why the adviser  was 
recommending that she transfer when the charges  were considerably  more  than in her 
existing plans. She said on their reading of the report  they were  anxious that the 
recommendation would create significant losses on all their pensions.  She flagged  up her 
concerns about  having all her pensions with one provider. This was because  her parents 
had lost all their pensions  due to an issue with one provider.
I can see that Mr A wrote to the adviser  within days of receiving the report,  asking on their 
joint behalf to meet with adviser as soon as possible. He expressed concerns about  the 
independence of the advice they had received,  having been informed that Booth had been 
purchased by Succession Wealth.
Ref: DRN69863406Had Mrs A received the report prior to the transfer having been  made,  I think it unlikely that 
she wouldve gone  ahead with transferring her fund away from Provider 3. I note that this 
was the fund she was paying  a few pounds a year for in charges. Given her concerns 
about the impact  of the charges, the independence of the SIPP  platform and the basis  of 
the recommendation to transfer, I think it unlikely that Mrs A wouldve accepted the 
advisers advice to transfer.
I think Mrs A has been caused some trouble and upset to her retirement  planning arising 
from Booths actions and omissions. In the circumstances, it would be appropriate for it to 
pay her some compensation to acknowledge this, on top of any financial loss that she has 
suffered.
fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs A as close  as 
possible to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable 
advice.
Booth says that when assessing  fair compensation Mrs As loss should be assessed  
based on the performance  of Mrs As existing pension arrangements at the time of 
advice. 
However, its clear from the paperwork, that Mrs A asked Booth  to provider her with 
financial advice on her pensions and other  savings.  So, it seemed she wanted to make  
some changes and if she had been  given  suitable  advice, I think she wouldve done  
something different  to meet  her objectives. 
After transfer, Mrs As transferred funds remained in the Succession cash fund rather  
than being invested for capital growth as recommended. Ive considered  carefully 
whether Mrs A shouldve  sought pro-actively to mitigate her loss within the SIPP. 
However, I can understand why she may have decided  to await  the outcome of this 
complaint before deciding how to proceed. So, I dont hold this against her when 
assessing fair compensation. I say this because her other two PP werent transferred, 
so overall, matters were  unresolved and her main objective of bringing her pensions  
together had not been met. In addition, Mrs A said that she asked for financial advice 
and Booth concluded that her ISA investment didnt correspond  with her attitude to risk, 
but it then failed to provide her with any investment advice. So, leaving her funds in the 
SIPP may not have  been a long term arrangement for her 
So, I think Mrs A would have invested  differently. It is not possible  to say precisely what 
she would  have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs A's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
what should Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltd?
To compensate Mrs A fairly Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltd should:
 Compare  the performance of Mrs A's investment  with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Ref: DRN69863407Booth Wealth Management  (UK) Ltd should also pay any interest  set out below.
If there  is a loss, Booth  Wealth  Management (UK) Ltd should pay into Mrs A's 
pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation  and any 
interest. Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltds payment  should  allow  for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Booth Wealth  Management  (UK) Ltd 
shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
If Booth Wealth Management  (UK) Ltd are unable to pay the compensation into Mrs 
A's pension plan,  Booth Wealth  Management (UK) Ltd should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs A's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement age. In Mrs As case,  she should be 
treated a basic  rate taxpayer.
For example, if Mrs A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs A 
would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum,  the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation.
 In addition, Booth Wealth  Management (UK) Ltd should pay Mrs A £100  for the 
trouble and upset caused.
 Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs A in a clear, simple format.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Booth  Wealth Management (UK) Ltd 
consider that Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltd is required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income  tax from that interest, Booth Wealth 
Management (UK) Ltd should tell Mrs A how much  Booth Wealth  Management (UK) Ltd 
have taken off. Booth  Wealth Management  (UK) Ltd should  also give Mrs A a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Ref: DRN69863408fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
 Mrs A wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  total return  index) is made  up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return.
 Although it is called an income index, the mix and diversification provided  
within the index  is close enough  to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure 
of comparison  given Mrs A's circumstances and risk attitude.
further information
Some examples of how the calculation should  be carried out are available on our 
website under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment'  / 'Calculating 
compensation in investment complaints'.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs As complaint against  Booth Wealth Management (UK) Ltd. I order  it to pay 
Mrs A fair compensation as calculated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6986340