K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained that Somerset Bridge Insurance  Services Limited (SBIS) mistakenly 
cancelled his motor  insurance policy and then didn't  provide enough compensation to 
address that error.
SBIS was previously known as Eldon Insurance Services Limited but has recently rebranded 
as SBIS.  So for ease Ill refer to Eldon  as SBIS.
background
Mr R contacted SBIS to make an amendment to his policy.  SBIS  is an insurance 
intermediary, which means  it sells policies and may help with their administration but it 
doesn't provide the cover, which is provided  by a separate business (the insurer). When  
SBIS processed the change on Mr Rs policy it mistakenly cancelled  it and told Mr R that it 
had done so. At the time Mr R was travelling for work. When  he returned he took a planned 
three hour taxi journey  to collect  his car but - because it wasn't insured - couldnt 
immediately drive home. So he stayed overnight in a hotel.
Mr R complained. SBIS acknowledged that it had made a mistake.  To put things right it 
reimbursed Mr R a £50 admin charge and £49 for his hotel costs  although it said it did so 
as a goodwill  gesture.  It also offered £75 compensation  for the impact  of its mistake.
Mr R didn't think that went far enough  and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Rs complaint. He agreed with the out of pocket sums SBIS had 
agreed to reimburse  Mr R for. But he didn't think  £75 compensation was enough to address 
Mr Rs distress and inconvenience. So he said SBIS  should  pay Mr R a further £125 
compensation on top of any sums  previously  paid. The adjudicator  added  that SBIS should 
contact Mr R to explain  if any pro rata refund of premium was due from the insurer. And if 
the insurer hadnt paid that sum then SBIS  should pay the refund together with 8% simple  
interest.
Mr R accepted our adjudicators recommendations but SBIS  didn't  agree to pay increased  
compensation; so the complaint's  been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr R has made  a number  of detailed points. But in this decision I 
will focus on what I see as being  the key areas of outstanding concern following our 
adjudicators assessment  of the complaint.
SBIS think the £75 compensation  its offered, and £49 to cover hotel costs is reasonable to 
address Mr Rs distress and inconvenience  arising from it mistakenly cancelling  Mr R policy.  
And its noted that Mr R didn't have to stay overnight in a hotel but could  have continued his 
journey by taxi to his home  address. But I think that misses the point.
Im aware that Mr R is employed in a job that many people would consider to be stressful. 
And, having finished work, he found himself without insurance and unable to drive.  That 
means he couldn't immediately get home in the manner he would  have expected to. And I 
Ref: DRN60528802can understand that Mr R must have found this immensely stressful.  I don't think  the fact that 
he could have continued his journey by taxi reduced  that stress. So, in the specific 
circumstances of this case,  I don't think the compensation  SBIS  has offered is enough. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable that SBIS should increase the compensation by £125  to 
address the distress and inconvenience  Mr R suffered in specific  circumstances he found  
himself in.
Mr R has also told us that although his policy still had some weeks  to run he didn't receive 
any refund  of premium.  It's often the case that insurers will provide a proportionate refund of 
any unused portion of an insurance premium when the policy is cancelled. But that's not 
always the case. And I should explain that whether  or not a premium refund  is due is 
generally the responsibility of the insurer and not SBIS. But it was SBIS,  and not the insurer,  
that cancelled  the policy. So unless it has already done so, I think  its reasonable that SBIS 
liaises with the insurer to establish if Mr R is due a refund of policy.  If he isn't due a refund 
then SBIS  should  explain that to Mr R. But, if that's the case,  then any complaint Mr R might  
have about entitlement to a refund would be for the insurer and not SBIS  to address. 
However, if a refund  was due but the insurer hasn't paid it, then  because SBIS caused the 
situation to arise - it should refund Mr R that sum. It should add simple interest to any 
premium refund it makes  from the date the policy was cancelled to the date it makes  
payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Somerset Bridge Insurance 
Services Limited to:
Pay Mr R a further £125 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience. 
This sum is in addition  to any amounts previously refunded or offered. This should be 
paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr R has accepted my final decision.  If it 
pays later than that it must also pay interest  on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Contact Mr R to explain if any pro rata refund of premium was due. And if a refund 
was due but the insurer hasnt paid it then SBIS should pay the refund together with 
simple interest at a rate of 8% a year from the date of cancellation  until the refund is 
made.i
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
i If SBIS consider  that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6052880