K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains, on behalf  of Mrs D and the late Mr D, to Pearl  Group Management 
Services Limited that:
The equity release mortgage sold to Mr and Mrs D was unsuitable and the interest  
rate is too high and there  was no review.
Ms D is unhappy with the level of service provided.
It has been obstructive in accepting the Power of Attorney (POA) document sent to it.
It doesnt accept  correspondence  by email.
background
Pearl is part of the Phoenix Group and I note correspondence relating to this complaint is 
from Phoenix. I have  made this clear  because I will refer to Phoenix throughout my decision.
Mr and Mrs D took out an equity release mortgage  in 2001. Phoenix became the provider of 
the equity release mortgage in 2015.  Ms D complained to Phoenix  in August 2018 and has 
also complained  to the original firm responsible  for the advice to take out the mortgage, and 
subsequent advising  firms. 
Phoenix sent a final response letter (FRL) to Ms D at Mr and Mrs Ds address on 8 October 
2018 but Ms D never received this and only got a copy of the letter in January 2019 when 
Phoenix sent a further copy of the of the FRL to Ms D at her address overseas. In the letter 
Phoenix said it was responsible for administering the mortgage since  July 2015  but not for 
providing any advice.  It also said there  was no regulatory  requirement for it to review  the 
mortgage and any refinancing of the mortgage  would  need to be discussed with an 
independent financial  adviser.
Phoenix did uphold  Ms Ds complaint relating to what happened when Ms D sent in her 
Power of Attorney (POA). It said she had been told incorrectly that the POA  wasnt 
acceptable because  the signatures didnt match and the certifying solicitors werent named 
by the Law Society.  It offered £130  as redress to include the costs Ms D incurred in having 
the POA certified.  Ms D responded to this and complained about the time taken to respond 
to the complaint and asked Phoenix to reduce the mortgage amount owing and arrange  
refinancing to a new provider  with a better rate of interest at no cost  which Phoenix didnt 
agree to do.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. He 
said Phoenix was only the provider and hadnt  provided any advice about the mortgage and 
that it was only responsible for administering it. He said it wasnt responsible for providing 
reviews but that there wasnt a dispute  it had provided a poor service when Ms D contacted 
it to register the POA appointing her as attorney. He thought the £130 it had offered her for 
the trouble and upset caused by this was reasonable.
The investigator said he couldnt ask Phoenix  to change the interest on the mortgage and 
that the costs  of re-mortgaging  with a different lender are costs Mr and Mrs D would always  
have had to pay on re-mortgaging.
Ms D didnt agree with the investigator. In summary she made the following points:
Ref: DRN69939122The offer of £130 for the trouble and upset caused in relation to the POA  barely  
covers her costs.
From  her arrival  in the UK in July 2018  until September 2018 she was unable to 
discuss the mortgage with Phoenix because it wouldnt  accept  the POA.
The cost of interest in this period  is around £1800 so Phoenix should pay this as 
redress.
Phoenix has put them in a difficult financial position as they were trying to pay back 
the mortgage.
Phoenix didnt  respond  when  she made her formal complaint and she got no 
response when  she emailed their customer helpline. When  she telephoned at the 
end of January  2019 she was told phone calls werent accepted and the call was 
disconnected.
She emailed again and finally  received  a response to her complaint on 30 January 
2019, 18 weeks later.
The cost to them in interest over that period is £7,200 as they were hoping  to settle 
the increasing amount of the mortgage.
Phoenix says it cant change the interest rate but when they took over administration 
of the mortgage  it wrote  to Mr and Mrs D beforehand  and said it was responsible for 
setting interest rates  and charges. It also changed  its tariff in writing on 3 November 
2017.
Phoenix said it didnt  have an email address for her but emailed its response to her.
Phoenix has happily taken massive profit from this badly sold mortgage  from a 
woman who didnt  understand what she signed.
If the complaint  against the adviser  who recommended the mortgage  is successful 
they will be able to pay back part of the loan and refinance the balance at a more 
appropriate rate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms D is very concerned  for the position Mrs D is in. She has said Mrs D 
doesnt have the income  available to cover  the household expenses so may be forced to sell 
her house.  And that if she does she will be left with limited capital available to purchase 
another property  after repayment of the mortgage.  Her concern for her mother is 
understandable but although  I sympathise with her this cant affect my decision.
On the evidence I have seen Phoenix  has not provided any advice at any time with regard to 
the mortgage, and it would  be surprising  if it had done so given its role. This is limited to 
administering the mortgage, in accordance with the terms  that apply to it, as from July 2015. 
It had no involvement with the mortgage before this. Under the terms of the mortgage there 
is no obligation to review it.
I have considered if Phoenix  has done  anything wrong with regard to the administration  of 
the mortgage but, on the evidence, Im not satisfied that it has - save  in response to Ms Ds 
sending in the POA. 
Ms D has referred to Phoenix  contradicting itself in relation to not being able to change the 
interest rate. I dont think  it is a question of Phoenix being unable  to change the interest rate. 
The interest rate is a fixed rate of 7.99% and Phoenix is entitled to charge this. If it isnt 
Ref: DRN69939123willing to change this it hasnt done anything  wrong and I cant  direct  it to reduce the interest 
rate.
I note Ms D has referred Mrs D not understanding  what she was signing up to. But if the 
adviser who sold the mortgage to Mr and Mrs D didnt explain it properly  and I make  no 
finding on that in this complaint  so that Mrs D didnt understand it this isnt something 
Phoenix is responsible  for.
Phoenix did accept  it got things wrong with regard  to the POA  Ms D sent to it. I note that she 
thinks it should pay the interest  payable on the mortgage caused by the delay. But the 
mortgage hasnt  been paid off so the interest  wouldve been payable even if there had been 
no delay in the POA being  accepted.  In the circumstances it wouldnt be reasonable to ask 
Phoenix to pay this. 
I think it is important to point out that an award  for trouble and upset is to the complainant not 
third party representatives. So although I dont doubt that Ms D was caused some  trouble 
and upset herself this isnt something  I can make an award  for. Given this I think  the amount 
offered by Phoenix  of £130  is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms D has also raised an issue with regard to delay in responding to the complaint she made. 
But Phoenix did respond within eight weeks of her complaint in its FRL dated 8 October 
2018 to Mrs Ds address.  Given its letter was to Ms D and the address she had given in the 
POA was her home address overseas it mightve  been sensible to send a copy  of the letter 
to her home address in the first place. Phoenix  did then send a further copy  of the FRL both 
to Mrs Ds address and Ms Ds address which was received by her in January 2019.
I acknowledge Ms D must have found this frustrating but I dont think any redress is payable  
as a result. She has referred to the interest that accrued on the mortgage of £7,200  in the 
time before she received  the FRL.  But, as I said in relation to her other claim for interest, the 
mortgage has not been paid off and this interest wouldve arisen even if she had received 
the FRL in October 2018. 
Phoenix explained that it doesnt send correspondence by email. It did agree to send its 
further response of 29 January 2019 by email but stated  it wouldnt  be able to deal with Ms 
Ds queries by email  due to not having a secure server.  I dont think  Phoenix has been 
unreasonable with regard  to this.
I note Ms D queried with Phoenix why nothing had been done  when Mr and Mrs D had 
wanted to pay off the mortgage in 2012. The evidence she produced  of this is a letter from 
their then adviser referring  to taking steps  to discuss the equity release mortgage. There is 
no record of any discussion with Phoenix  but even  if there was it wasnt for Phoenix to take 
steps to do anything with the mortgage.
Ms D requested that Phoenix arrange  refinancing of the mortgage  with another  provider at a 
more competitive interest rate without charge. There is no reason that Phoenix  needed to 
agree to do this and not something I could ask it to do given the only thing it got wrong was  
the issue over the POA.
Ref: DRN69939124my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D on behalf  of 
Mrs D and the late Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 6 March  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6993912