K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains Caxton  FX Ltd (Caxton) wont refund him several transactions that debited 
his pre-paid card account which he says he didnt authorise.  Mr F also complains about the 
way Caxton have  handled his complaint. 
background
Mr F says he took out a Caxton pre-payment  card in 2010 for use when travelling abroad. In 
February 2016 Mr F went on a cruise  with his wife. He says he returned  from this holiday 
within the same month. Mr F says he used the card twice, once to buy an item for his wife 
and the other to withdraw foreign currency from an ATM machine. 
Mr F says he didnt  need to use the card again  nor check its balance online until 
August 2017 when  he was planning to travel  again. At this point he realised the prepaid  card 
had been emptied of its funds. Between March and April 2016  there  have been 31 separate 
cash withdrawal transactions from the prepaid card, all having  taken place in a country Mr F 
says hes never visited. 
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties  are aware  of which  transactions  
are in dispute. 
Mr F then contacted Caxton to explain what had happened and recover  his money.  Caxton 
said that as Mr F had raised  this matter more than 13 months after the disputed  transactions  
had taken place,  he was too late and its unable to help. 
After looking into the matter, our investigator  concluded: 
that declining to investigate Mr Fs disputed transactions because  of the 13-month 
undue delay time limit would lead, in the circumstances of this complaint, to an 
unfair outcome;
that Caxton ought  to have picked up on the unusual activity  on the account and 
thereby informed Mr F so that he couldve raised the dispute  much sooner;
that it was unlikely Mr F had authorised these payments nor that he failed with intent 
or gross negligence to comply  with any relevant obligations. So they recommended  
Caxton refund Mr F the money he disputes;
that Caxtons  handling  of the complaint fell short of the standards  expected. So they 
recommended Caxton pay £350  to Mr F for the trouble and upset it caused him 
Caxton disagreed with our investigators  findings  reiterating its position that Mr Fs disputed  
transactions had been raised  with it more than 13 months after they occurred. So it doesnt 
need to investigate this matter. Caxton  added that it had not been  negligent  in its handling of 
Mr Fs account.  The matter was then passed to me to decide. 
I then sent both parties my provisional decision   a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision  on 9 June 2020.  I explained  why I thought  applying  the 13-month time 
limit deriving from the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSR 2009) would lead to an 
unfair outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I then went onto consider  if I thought Mr F had authorised the transactions that are in 
dispute. For several reasons, which Ill in part repeat here,  I didnt think Mr F likely did: 
Ref: DRN67667492Mr F says the card was never  out of his possession and that the disputed  
transactions all took place abroad  after hed returned home;
He has never visited the country  where  the cash withdrawals took place;
All the successful cash  withdrawals  were carried out by ATM machines that read the 
magnetic strip and needed a PIN. Any machine where a CHIP needed to be read 
was rejected on the basis that the ATM did not read the chip
So I provisionally found that it wasnt likely Mr Fs genuine card was used to carry out the 
transactions. I also didnt  think  Mr F was likely  grossly negligent  nor that he failed with intent. 
Finally, in my provisional decision, I found  that Caxton had caused Mr F avoidable delay in 
the way it had handled the complaint. And I said Caxton should pay £400  for the trouble and 
upset its caused.  
I then invited both parties  to submit any further  evidence or comments they would like me to 
consider before I reach  my final decision.  That time, following an extension granted for 
Caxton, has now passed. 
Mr F said he was happy with the provisional  decision. He went  onto comment on a couple of 
matters he saw as discrepant.  
In its response,  Caxton  said: 
That it agreed with paying £350  compensation for the trouble and upset  it had 
caused for the way it handled  Mr Fs complaint;
 under  the Payment Services Regulations, (1) A payment service user is entitled 
to redress under regulation 61.only if [he] notifies the payment service  provider  
without undue delay,  and in any event no later than 13 months after the debit date, 
on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed payment 
transaction. You have stated  that you are persuaded to apply  undue  delay to this 
case, however  as per the regulation  above, that can only be applied  collectively, 
alongside the no later than 13 months  statement. It does  not relate to an either-or  
scenario
We also stand  by our Terms  and Conditions (as previously stated) that advises 
clients to check their accounts regularly to make sure there is nothing untoward on 
their transaction history. In our opinion, the Ts and Cs (which are significantly shorter 
than any of our competitors) and the regulation are clear. The client  has 13 months  in 
which to raise fraudulent transactions with the payment  service  provider so the 
account should be looked at periodically in the same  way they would check a bank 
account. Caxton  is not a bank and doesnt  send  statements or balance  reminders 
because we urge customers to check their balances themselves
Our investigator then relayed the key parts of Caxtons response  to Mr F, who then sent in 
further submissions.  In summary, some  of the key points are: 
Caxton have erroneously said the Ombudsman  was planning to award £350 for the 
trouble and upset  its complaint handling  had caused, and that the correct  amount is 
£400;
Amongst other  things, the 13-month  time limit applies from the date the customer  
became aware  of the transaction. And this time limit is a should and not a must;
Ref: DRN67667493That Caxtons view on the 13-month time limit does not take into accounts its 
negligence and therein its duty of care;
That Caxton is wrong to assume all its customers check  their accounts online;
As both parties have  now responded to my provisional decision, I will now decide this matter. 
 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that, and for the same 
reasoning that I set-out in my provisional  decision,  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint. 
The 13-months time limit, the PSRs and Caxtons  terms  and conditions
I note what Caxton have  said about this in its response  as above. But these are points, 
that in the main, I already  considered in my provisional decision.  For ease  of reference, Ill 
summarise the key points  I made: 
On the face of it, the 13-month time limit does apply, and Caxtons terms and 
conditions in relation to this would mean it didnt need to investigate Mr Fs claim. But 
applying these terms or the time-limit would lead to an unfair  outcome  in the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint;
Given Mr Fs use of the card, and its purpose, I said it was reasonable that Mr F 
didnt see a need to check his account;
I also said there was no evidence of the transactions  being brought  to Mr Fs 
attention, nor was Caxtons term that urged customers to check their online 
balances sufficiently  prominent;
I then said that notwithstanding  the other  reasons, Caxton ought to have done  more 
to pick up on the irregular activity and bring that to Mr Fs attention.  And that this 
wouldve likely led to Mr F raising his dispute within  13-months of them taking  place
I note what Caxton say about the 13-month time and it not relating to an either-or  scenario. 
But I must reach my decision  based  on all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
So based  on the reasons  I set-out on my provisional  decision  as summarised above  Im 
satisfied applying the 13-month  time limit would  lead to an unfair outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Did Mr F authorise  the disputed transactions? 
Neither Caxton or Mr F have commented  on this element of my provisional  decision. So 
because of the reasons contained  in my provisional decision, I think  its more likely than not 
Mr F didnt  authorise the transactions  he disputes.  So I think its fair and reasonable that 
Caxton refund him the disputed transactions.  
 
And for the reasons given in my provisional decision I dont think  Mr F was grossly  negligent  
or failed  with intent.  
Caxtons handling  of the complaint 
Ref: DRN67667494In response to my provisional decision on this point Caxton said they agree and will award  
£350 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused Mr F for the way it has handled the 
complaint. 
Mr F has correctly pointed  out that I was looking to award £400. I accept its possible Caxton 
are confusing this with the £350  our investigator had recommended as a compensatory 
award. 
In any event, given  both parties havent  said anything materially  about the reasons I planned 
to make this award, I think Caxtons  actions caused  avoidable delay and trouble and upset to 
Mr F. So I think it ought to pay Mr F £400  compensation for this. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint. So Caxton FX Ltd should  now refund to Mr F all the 
disputed transactions  and pay him compensation of £400 for the trouble and upset its 
caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr F complains Caxton FX Ltd (Caxton)  wont refund him several transactions  that debited  his pre-
paid card account  which  he says he didnt  authorise. Mr F also complains about  the way Caxton have 
handled his complaint. 
background
Ref: DRN67667495Mr F says he took out a Caxton pre-payment card in 2010  for use when travelling abroad.  In February  
2016 Mr F went on a cruise  with his wife. He says he returned from this holiday within  the same 
month. Mr F says he used the card twice, once to buy an item for his wife and the other to withdraw 
foreign currency  from an ATM  machine.  
Mr F says he didnt need to use the card again nor check its balance online until August 2017 when 
he was planning to travel again. At this point he realised the prepaid card had been emptied of its 
funds. Between March and April 2016 there have been 31 separate cash  withdrawal transactions  from 
the prepaid  card,  all having  taken place in a country  Mr F says hes never  visited.  
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which  transactions  are in 
dispute. 
Mr F then contacted Caxton to explain  what had happened and recover his money. Caxton said that 
as Mr F had raised this matter more than 13 months after the disputed transactions  had taken  place, 
he was too late and its unable to help.  
After looking into the matter,  our investigator  concluded: 
that declining to investigate  Mr Fs disputed transactions because of the 13-month undue 
delay time limit would lead, in the circumstances of this complaint,  to an unfair outcome;
that Caxton ought to have picked up on the unusual  activity on the account and thereby 
informed Mr F so that he couldve raised the dispute much sooner;
that it was unlikely  Mr F had authorised  these payments nor that he failed with intent  or gross  
negligence to comply  with any relevant obligations. So they recommended Caxton refund 
Mr F the money he disputes;
that Caxtons handling  of the complaint  fell short of the standards expected.  So they 
recommended Caxton  pay £350 to Mr F for the trouble and upset it caused him 
Caxton disagreed with our investigators findings reiterating its position  that Mr Fs disputed 
transactions had been raised  with it more than 13 months after they occurred. So it doesnt need to 
investigate this matter.  Caxton added that it had not been negligent in its handling of Mr Fs account. 
Mr F has said he feels Caxton are using this 13-month issue to absolve  it from its obligations.  
The matter has now been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the 
same overall  conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
13 months and the Payment  Service  Regulations
As the transactions in question took place  in 2016, the relevant regulations  to consider are the 
Payment Service Regulations 2009 (PSR 2009). 
I note that Caxton have drawn  attention to the Article 71 of the Payment  Service Directive  (PSD). But 
this was effected into UK law after the transactions were  considering here. So its the PSR 2009,  that 
flowed from the earlier PSD, that is relevant  here.  
That said, the 13-month time limit is found  in regulation 59 of the PSR 2009. Regulation  61 requires a 
payment service provider to immediately refund an unauthorised payment. And regulation  59(1) says: 
(1)A payment service  user is entitled  to redress under  regulation 61.only if [he] notifies the 
payment service provider without undue delay,  and in any event  no later than 13 months 
Ref: DRN67667496after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly  executed 
payment transaction 
Caxton has given me its terms and conditions  which applied to Mr Fs account  at the time, and the 
relevant part in section 10 says: 
You will also be liable  for all losses, including any related fees and charges, for any unauthorised or 
incorrectly executed Transaction if you fail to notify us without undue delay on becoming  aware of the 
Transaction, and in any event within thirteen (13) months of the Transaction debit date
I also note in section 17 of the same terms and conditions it says: 
..In order to get a refund for any unauthorised Transaction, you must  report the Transaction without 
undue delay upon becoming aware  of it or otherwise you will lose your right to a refund. You will not 
be able to get a refund  for any unauthorised Transaction reported after thirteen (13) months have 
passed following the debit  date of the Transaction. 
Despite of the possible thirteen (13) month refund  period you will not be able to claim for a refund  for 
an unauthorised Transaction  if the Transaction was correctly displayed in your online Account  and 
you failed to inform us about the Transaction  being unauthorised without  undue delay upon seeing the 
Transaction in your online  Account. In this respect  We urge you to check your online Account on a 
regular basis and review your Transactions carefully
Mr F disputed  authorising these transactions in August  2017 with Caxton.  Given the last of the 31 
disputed transactions took place in April 2016 hes raised this matter more  than 13 months after the 
transactions happened. So on the face of it, that means Caxton doesnt need to investigate any 
further. 
But in the individual circumstances of this case, Im persuaded applying this undue delay term would 
lead to an unfair outcome. Ill explain why. 
Mr F says that he took out the prepaid account  for holidays  abroad.  That is supported by how and 
when Mr F says he used this card. It also speaks to the type of card that it is; I understand  Caxton 
market it as a safer way to carry  and spend money abroad. 
After taking it out in 2010, Mr F used the card in 2012 and after about four years again on his holiday 
in 2016. Caxton has only given me records of the transaction  on the card for the period  that relates to 
Mr Fs complaint, but I havent seen anything to make me think  that this isnt an accurate recollection  
of Mr Fs use of the card. 
Mr F has said that after returning from his 2016 holiday he didnt  have any communication from 
Caxton telling  him to check his balance  nor any alerts  relating  to the account. So I think  its 
reasonable that he didnt see any need to check his account. Nor have I seen anything to suggest Mr 
Fs attention was drawn to checking his account like regular statements. 
Caxton say its terms, as referenced above, urges customers to check  their online balances regularly. 
But this sounds  more like a recommendation or good  practice. And this wording is in section 10 and 
17 of a fourteen-page  document,  so Im not satisfied that its sufficiently prominent. 
I note that the wording  in section 17 of Caxtons terms also says that despite of the 13-month period a 
customer will be prevented  from getting  a refund  on an unauthorised transaction  as long as it is raised 
without undue delay  upon  seeing the Transaction in your online Account. 
I acknowledge that this wording outlines how Caxton may treat a customer who they think  shouldve 
acted faster upon seeing any unauthorised transaction, but it emphasises a customer  having  seen the 
transactions online  prompting them into action. To that end Im persuaded  that Mr F reporting  the 
matter as soon as he says he checked his balance ahead of travelling  again  in 2017, is reasonable 
Ref: DRN67667497behaviour. Not least because it reflects Mrs Fs holiday  plans abroad - the reason he took out the 
card.   
Mr F has argued that Caxtons security  measures  ought to have identified the irregular  activity on his 
account, prompting  it to contact him much earlier. From Caxtons technical records I note the following 
about the use of the card: 
between 8 March and 4 April 2016 there were 31 cash withdrawals  almost  one a day;
Most of the transactions  some  27 out of 31  were  for the same amount;
Between March  and April 2016  there were 29 occasions where either  the spending limit or the 
daily ATM  limit had been  reached;  
Only the transactions where a magnetic stripe  was read were successful.  All seven CHIP  and 
PIN attempts  were  rejected  because the ATM did not read the chip;
All in all there were 31 paired and 39 rejected transactions between March and May 2016;
Taken together, Im satisfied  that there is enough unusual  activity  on this account to have prompted 
Caxton to get in touch with Mr F and question their validity.  Had Caxton taken  some action Mr F is 
likely to have become aware and thereby  likely to have raised his dispute at that time  and 
importantly within 13 months. 
Caxton has argued that as its cards are used  to carry out foreign currency transactions its normal  for 
the spending limits to have been reached. But even if I were to accept this - notwithstanding  the 
substantive volume of these attempted  transactions - I still think  Caxton  shouldve picked up on the 
activity on the account. Thats because they were so far removed from Mr Fs usual use and because 
the CHIP reading transactions  were all rejected. Caxton after all has a duty to prevent fraud and treat 
its customers fairly.
Did Mr F authorise  the disputed  transactions?  
Caxton is required to refund  the amount of unauthorised transactions if Mr F did not make
or authorise them. The relevant regulations, to this effect,  are the PSRs 2009. And having carefully 
considered all the evidence, I dont  think Mr F did. Thats because: 
Mr F says the card was never out of his possession and that the disputed  transactions all took 
place abroad after hed returned home;
He has never  visited the country where  the cash withdrawals took place;
All the successful  cash withdrawals were carried out by ATM machines that read the 
magnetic strip and needed a PIN. Any machine where a CHIP needed  to be read was 
rejected on the basis that the ATM did not read the chip;  
So given what Ive said above, and having  thought  about  this very carefully, the most likely  
explanation of whats happened is that Mr Fs card was cloned, and other unknown parties had 
somehow managed to appropriate his PIN number. Its possible they were  able to do this when Mr F 
used his card in February 2016, maybe by shoulder surfing or the use of a camera at the cashpoint. 
This probable  scenario is also supported  by the evidence  that any of the ATMs that required an 
electronic CHIP to be read was unable  to do so. From what weve seen  at this service, and from what  
we know about these types of fraud, cards can be cloned  by copying information from another  cards 
magnetic strip  but there is little evidence  to show a card with an electronic  CHIP can be cloned. 
It follows then that Im minded conclude Mr Fs genuine card wasnt  likely used to carry  out these  
transactions. After weighing  everything up, I think its more likely  than not Mr F didnt authorise the 
transactions he disputes. So I think its fair and reasonable that Caxton refund him the disputed 
transactions. 
Was Mr F grossly negligent  or fail with intent? 
Ref: DRN67667498A customer should only be responsible  for transactions theyve authorised. And Ive already  
concluded that I think  its most likely Mr F didnt  authorise the transaction in dispute.  But Caxton can 
still hold Mr F liable for them if the evidence  suggests its more likely than not he authorised someone 
else to make them, or if he failed to keep his account safe - either by displaying a very high degree of 
carelessness or by intentionally failing to keep his card and PIN safe.
There isnt any information  to show Mr F gave his card or PIN to anyone  else to use at any point. Mr F 
has also said he has always been very vigilant in protecting his PIN and there isnt anything that 
shows he wrote it down  or shared it with anyone. 
Mr F did use his card twice  on the 2016  holiday, once to withdraw some money and the other to buy 
some perfume. If a fraudster appropriated  his PIN it couldve been by a method I outlined  above  
shoulder surfing or a camera was placed on the ATM. If this is what happened, Im not persuaded  Mr 
F had been grossly  negligent  in his actions. 
 
Caxtons handling of the complaint 
Mr F explains that pulling his complaint together has taken him a significant amount of time to do. I 
note the thoroughness  and volume of Mr Fs submissions reflect this. But the extensiveness of Mr Fs 
own investigation has been through  his own design. And this isnt a requirement  to have  his complaint 
properly investigated  by either  Caxton or this service. 
I do however note that Caxton have caused Mr F avoidable delay and because  of that have caused 
him trouble  and upset. Specifically, that relates to a four-and-a-half-month  delay in giving  Mr F the 
proper format  for the technical report he needed  to analyse his account history  and transactions. 
Mr F has explained that Caxton  accepted  it had been sending him information  he needed  in several 
reports and that this format could be confusing. To support this Mr F has sent me an excerpt from an 
email which  he says Caxton sent to him on 22 January  2018. Part of it says: 
 I fear we may both be disadvantaged due to dealing  with several different  partial reports, these 
reports are being made ad hoc and formatting is not uniform. It can easily  become confusing  with 
regards to interpreting  the data unless  we have everything all in one place. I do apologize  for the lack 
of uniformity, our systems do not generate reports as such  and this information is not usually  passed 
on to the customer for review or interpretation
Caxton go on to say that it has now attached a report for the full history of the account, with various 
other key bits of data attached. To my mind,  this shows that Caxton,  though not something it usually 
does, was able to get a report together that was simpler for Mr F to understand and, importantly,  one 
where all the information he needed was in one place. 
So given Caxtons actions caused avoidable delay and trouble and upset to Mr F, I think it ought  to 
pay Mr F compensation for this. 
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I note Caxton has said the length of time that elapsed 
between the transactions, and Mr F notifying it of them, prevents it from using  the chargeback process  
with the relevant merchants.  But I havent needed to consider this matter in full, because Im satisfied  
it should  refund the transactions because Mr F didnt authorise them  which is an altogether different 
matter. 
 my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I plan to uphold Mr Fs complaint and that Caxton FX Ltd should  refund 
to him all the disputed transaction  and pay him compensation of £400 for the trouble  and upset  its 
caused. 
Ref: DRN6766749