K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc didnt  tell him about  a corporate action on one of 
his shareholdings. Because of this, he says he missed an opportunity to take up new shares  
and sell them on for a profit.
background 
Mr G had shares in a company Ill call A. These were held within his Barclays share  dealing  
account. In early November 2017, Mr G called Barclays as hed found  out that company A 
was looking to raise  cash   they were offering existing shareholders the chance to buy more 
shares at a discount  to market prices. But during the phone  call, the Barclays  advisor told 
Mr G that they werent able to participate  in the fund raise, so Mr G wasnt  able to either.
Mr G wasnt happy about this and said he would always  want to take up new shares. So 
Barclays looked into his concerns as a complaint and offered  him £150 to apologise for the 
inconvenience. But Mr G didnt think this was enough  he said hed have bought  more  
shares and given the share price at the time, could have sold them  on for around £500  profit.  
Barclays said they couldnt be sure as to how much money Mr G might have made, so they 
didnt agree to increase their offer.
Remaining unhappy, Mr G asked for our help. One of our investigators  looked into what  had 
happened but she felt Barclays offer was fair. She pointed  out that Barclays  terms and 
conditions said they didnt have to tell their customers about things like this. And as Mr G 
enquired about  the offer after it had expired, he was too late to place an order anyway. As 
things werent resolved,  the case was passed  to me. 
I issued my provisional findings in September. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and based on 
what Ive seen so far, Im thinking  of coming  to a different outcome to our investigator 
and for different reasons.  Ill explain  why. 
Ive taken a look at what happened  at the time and can see that company A offered  
their existing shareholders the chance to take up new ordinary shares at £2 each. 
Barclays now say Mr G could perhaps have participated had he contacted them  in 
time. But Mr G says Barclays ought  to have  told him about  it in time. So Ive looked at 
what obligations Barclays had to Mr G.
As our investigator pointed out, Barclays terms and conditions say the account is 
execution-only meaning, amongst other  things,  theyre under no duty to notify Mr G 
of movements in his account.  Furthermore, the terms say that Barclays  dont have to 
notify Mr G, or take his instructions,  with regards to corporate actions.
However, Ive also taken a look at the product brochure that accompanies  Mr Gs 
specific account. In contrast to the terms and conditions, below Ive highlighted four 
different things the brochure said:
[y]ou can view full details of corporate actions, and make your elections 
where appropriate online 
[n]otifications will be sent when you need to make decisions  
Ref: DRN62446652[we]  will offer a useful  alert marker  online next to any investments in your 
portfolio when a corporate action is announced so you can easily identify 
events which may impact your investments
[w]ell also notify you of all corporate  actions by email or text if you choose to 
go paperless.
Mr G wasnt set up for paperless alerts  at the time, so if Barclays  had been sending 
notifications that way, he wouldnt have received them. But Mr G was someone who 
logged onto his account regularly  I checked  his login activity for October and saw 
that hed been online on 11 different days. Barclays werent able to show me any 
more activity for the rest of 2017   but there  was evidence Mr G had traded using the 
online platform  so it wouldnt  be right to think that the absence of login data meant 
Mr G wasnt monitoring  his account.
Mr G was overseas around  the time of the offer, but hes told us he did log on to 
check his account.  From what I know of his trip, there would  have been  an internet 
connection so I dont find this unlikely  especially given his circumstances  and usual 
investing activity.  
Mr G said he knew about company As news and that he felt Barclays  had failed to 
show on the platform how he could  participate   he says there  is normally an icon 
beside a holding showing there  are options  to be considered. This is in line with the 
above excerpt from the product brochure where Barclays say [we] will offer a useful  
alert marker online next to any investments  in your portfolio when a corporate  action  
is announced so you can easily  identify events which may impact your investments.
So, the problem  we have is that Barclays product  brochure told Mr G theyd notify 
him of things  like company As corporate action, but they didnt  so I dont think we 
can fairly say they handled Mr Gs account  as they said they would. 
From what  I have  seen, I am persuaded that Mr G was checking his account and, 
had Barclays handled the action in the way they said they would, he would have 
taken up on the offer. 
Barclays made an error and I see that it caused  some concern and inconvenience to 
Mr G, but I think  the £150 already offered is enough to recognise the shortcomings 
here. What  I must now consider is that while Barclays  offer compensates Mr G for 
the inconvenience of the error, it stops short of compensating Mr G for any financial 
losses by way of missed opportunity. 
Barclays didnt offer Mr G any compensation for investment loss as they said they 
couldnt be sure what  any profit  on additional shares  might have been. In situations 
such as this, to ask for compensation we must be satisfied the business prevented 
their customer from an identifiable course of action that led to tangible losses rather 
than hypothetical  losses. 
I must therefore look closely to what Mr Gs intentions were  at the time, taking into 
account all of the available evidence and without being influenced by later assertions 
about what would have been done at the time.  To see whether or not I agree, Ive 
thought carefully  about what happened  in November  2017 in order to consider 
whether any financial  loss has flowed from Barclays error.
Ref: DRN62446653Ive listened to the call that Mr G made  to Barclays in early  November  2017   he did 
enquire about why he hadnt  been notified about  company As action, particularly  as 
hed had a letter about action on another of his holdings. He also expressed his 
dissatisfaction that Barclays  hadnt allowed shareholders to take part. While  not 
explicit, I dont doubt Mr G had some form of intention to take up new shares. He also 
discussed transferring  money to the account  and how to fund the action for the other  
holding  something he later went through with. So I think had he been given the 
chance to participate  in company As corporate action, he most likely would have 
done. Mr G says his intention was always to take up 1,000 new shares and then sell 
them on. He notes that he may well have had the scope  to take on more,  but that his 
initial intention was for 1,000 so I have considered his losses on this basis.
When something has gone wrong, we look to put the consumer back  into the position 
they would  have been in but for the business error. If we look to redress Mr G now,  
its not as simple as crediting him with the shares he says hed have taken  up. This is 
because Mr G says hed have sold the shares soon after, for a profit. And its now 
complicated further as company As share  price  is now much less favourable   so it 
also wouldnt  be a fair comparison  to just credit  Mr G the shares without 
consideration of their onward sale.
When I asked Mr G about this, he agreed  its now difficult to show  exactly what he 
would have done had he taken up the shares.  Mr G pointed me to some historical 
share prices around the time of the event.  Considering company As expected 
timetable for the event,  had Mr G subscribed  in time hed have been credited with his 
new shares on or after 10 November 2017  but after this date, the share  price  high 
didnt hit the level Mr G claims for. Instead,  had Mr G sold his additional shares  within 
the following  month, a return  could have  been  anywhere within  the region of a £350 
gain or a £330 loss. 
I think that given  Mr Gs experience, intention and how regularly he logged onto his 
account that its not unreasonable to say that if hed have taken up the shares  as 
planned hed have sold them on at some point  during the following week.  Taking 
account of the share price movements in that week, we reduce the possible range of 
outcomes to between a £140 to £350 gain.
It would be wrong to apply  hindsight and select a particular day Mr G sold,  or allow 
him to select  the peak  of the market  and say hed have sold then. Indeed,  he might 
have done, but there  is risk of hindsight  in that approach. So because  its hard for us 
to say precisely what Mr G might have done, I think a fair way to resolve this aspect 
of his complaint  is for Barclays to compensate him somewhere  between those sums. 
Half way is around £250 and that doesnt seem an unreasonable  sum to me  this 
then goes some way towards recognising  Mr Gs lost opportunity.  
So to put things right, I think Barclays should  stand by their offer of £150 to recognise  
the inconvenience that flowed from the problem, but to also pay Mr G £250 to 
recognise financial loss following  his missed trading opportunity.
Barclays accepted  my findings and agreed  to compensate Mr G with £400.  
Ref: DRN62446654Mr G said he agreed  with the main thrust of my decision, but wanted to make a few points:
He felt that £250 for the inconvenience would be more  reasonable, especially given 
how Barclays had handled  the complaint 
He was unhappy that at one point, Barclays had said he couldve participated  but at 
another point,  had said he couldnt  of  he asked  if I knew  what the true position was
He also asked that if others had been  able to participate, why was that the case and 
how it affects things
He felt his financial  losses  were closer to £500 given the share  price  at the time.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate why Mr G feels unsure about  whether he could have participated  in the offer or 
not  he has been told that he could, and that he couldnt. During our investigations Barclays 
have confirmed that he could have participated, and indeed others  did, but participation  
would have been on the condition that he had found out about the offer himself  and 
contacted them in time. 
Regardless of this, my findings as explained in my provisional decision remain the same  I 
felt that as the product  brochure said [we] will offer a useful alert marker online next to any 
investments in your portfolio when a corporate  action is announced and because  Mr G 
appeared to regularly check his account,  had Barclays of handled the action in the way they 
said they would I felt  and still feel  Mr G would  have taken up the offer. 
The outcome of what that would have looked  like, however, remains  in dispute. Mr G feels 
his financial loss is in the region of £500,  rather than the £250 I have suggested. I have 
considered his comments on this, namely that he couldve  sold 1,000 shares around the 
250p mark. But my proposed compensation was on the basis that Mr G would likely sell the 
shares soon after theyd been  credited  and in that week, a high wouldve earned Mr G 
£350 profit,  not £500. 
However, in order to consider Mr Gs point more carefully, Ive also reviewed  the share 
prices on the days following his call to Barclays when he was told he couldnt  participate. 
Had Mr G have been told he could  participate  that day, he could indeed  have sold stock from 
his original holding  ahead  of the new shares  being  credited and profited by over £500  as he 
says. The figures for these days couldve resulted  in a profit anywhere between £180  and 
£750. 
But whats  important to recognise is that by the time Mr G called Barclays to enquire about 
the offer, the chance to participate had already  passed  Mr G wouldve needed to have his 
application in several days earlier. So, to simply reconstruct the position  had the call resulted  
in successful take up wouldnt be a realistic alternative approach  the outcome of that 
phone call will always  have been that Mr G was too late to participate. 
For this reason, Ive considered what should have happened. Had things gone to plan, and 
Barclays flagged the action on Mr Gs account, to take part hed have had to act sooner. And 
if we apply the same logic as above   in that Mr G was to sell existing shares soon after 
making his application  a sale during that week couldve resulted in anything from a flat 
outcome or a £220  gain.  
Ref: DRN62446655Another thing  to consider is that while Mr G might have applied for 1,000  shares,  he wasnt 
to know if hed get filled on this until the result of the offer was announced some days later.  
Selling existing stock  beforehand was possible, but Mr G wasnt to know  what  he was set to 
receive and so ran the risk of reducing  his overall  holding size  something hes said he was 
looking to maintain. 
Whats clear is that there are several different outcomes here which could  arguably  fall within 
a band of reasonableness. For the reasons  explained above, I dont think we can accurately 
identify a day Mr G would  have traded. So my focus  here is instead on achieving an 
outcome thats  fair and reasonable given the circumstances and the uncertainty. I therefore  
feel its fairest to take a view of what the average  and median prices  were across the two to 
three weeks that spanned the action. And having  taken everything into consideration, I 
remain confident  that the £250 I previously  suggested  is a fair amount to address  the 
financial loss here. 
Finally, I know  Mr G feels the inconvenience caused  by this matter is better recognised with 
£250 than £150. Ive considered his concerns on this point, as well as the uncertainty hes 
experienced throughout the complaint  handling  process, but Im not inclined to increase the 
award. 
I say that because while I do understand Mr Gs frustrations, I dont think his experience  
necessarily caused  stress  or worry  he missed  a trading opportunity to make some  money,  
which, against the size of his portfolio wasnt substantial. It wasnt as though  Mr G lost lots of 
money or was trying to work his way out of a difficult position. Instead, he was trying  to make 
some money and I havent seen anything on the file to show  the profit  was for a specific  
reason or need either. So, while I dont  wish to belittle  Mr Gs strength of feeling, I do think it 
is important to recognise that he wasnt in a difficult situation himself, and instead appears to 
have been frustrated as opposed to worried. I do see that Barclays  position  appeared 
unclear  and that is indeed frustrating  but I think the £150 already offered by Barclays is 
enough to recognise this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay £400 compensation. This should be paid within 28 days  of Barclays Bank UK PLC being  
notified of Mr Gs acceptance of my decision.  If it is not, interest should be paid on the sum 
at the rate of 8% simple  per year from the date of this decision until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6244665