K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Ms S says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think FICL  made  it clear  that Ms S didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this as it was some  time ago.
I say this because  FICL  has provided a copy of the store card application and I can see that 
the PPI was presented and as an optional  product  and Ms S has selected it. Ms S has also 
signed this form,  so I think she was given a choice and chose to take out the PPI.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ms S has told us she had a pre-existing medical condition at the time the policy was taken 
out that wouldnt have been  covered  under  the PPI. However, shes also told us this hadnt 
caused her to take any time off work.  So on the balance of probabilities; I dont think more  
information about this wouldve changed  her decision to take the PPI out.
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said  but for the reasons explained  above  I dont 
think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN66941902my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Financial  Insurance Company Limited does not have  to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6694190