K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  lent to her irresponsibly,  as the borrowing 
she took out was unaffordable. 
background
Mrs J has a bank account with Lloyds with an overdraft facility, and several personal loans. 
Mrs J was given three  personal loans  and her overdraft on her account with Lloyds was 
increased, at her request, from £1,500 to £3,500 in stages over the period. 
In June 2018, two months after the overdraft  increase to £3,500, Mrs J got in touch  with 
Lloyds and asked  to take out a loan to clear her overdraft debt. She said she couldnt  afford  
the daily charges  on the overdraft. Lloyds turned down Mrs Js application for a loan and 
refunded £100  in charges.  
Mrs J got into financial  difficulty around  June 2018 after losing rental income she had relied 
on. Subsequently Lloyds froze the interest and charges on her overdraft. 
Mrs J brought a complaint to this service about the amount shed been charged for her 
overdraft borrowing. And about the way Lloyds had responded to her financial difficulties. 
That complaint has been dealt with as a separate case. However  linked to this, a complaint 
was raised about  the affordability  of the overdraft and loan borrowing Mrs J had with Lloyds. 
This service put that complaint to Lloyds to answer.  
Lloyds responded to Mrs Js complaint about the affordability of her overdraft and loan 
borrowing. It said each time Mrs J had applied for an increase to her overdraft, itd 
completed an assessment  based on information it held about her and credit  scoring.  And it 
said in each case the assessments showed  Mrs J could afford the borrowing. 
In regard to the loans,  Lloyds said it completed similar checks,  and it said for each of the 
loans it had granted Mrs J, it thought the borrowing was affordable.  Overall  Lloyds  said it 
thought it had assessed Mrs Js borrowing applications correctly,  and had lent appropriately. 
And it turned down  her complaint. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  response to her complaint, Mrs J asked this service to look into what 
had happened. And so its for me to make a decision about the complaint. 
Since Mrs J brought  her complaint to us, in April 2020 Lloyds defaulted  the loan she took out 
in March 2018. 
Ref: DRN68937852my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Id considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having done so, I thought the complaint should 
be upheld. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out the relevant rules and guidance in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). And this says that for all loans, lenders need to 
check that that the borrower can afford to meet their repayments in a sustainable manner. 
This means  that Lloyds needed  to check Mrs J would be able to meet her repayments  
without borrowing further, while  meeting  other reasonable commitments.  The regulations 
arent prescriptive about what  checks Lloyds needed  to carry out in order to reasonably 
assess whether or not Mrs J would be able to meet her repayments sustainably, other than 
saying such checks need to be proportionate. This suggests that the same checks  might not 
be appropriate for all consumers, or for the same consumer in all circumstances. 
In line with the rules  I mentioned, I said Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance the 
greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in 
a sustainable  way. So, for example,  Id expect a lender to seek  more assurance  by carrying  
out more detailed checks in the following circumstances:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income); 
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). There may 
even come a point where the lending history  and pattern  of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lloyds has said it carried out the same checks  each  time Mrs J asked to extend her 
borrowing, and it said it thought these checks were proportionate. It also said it treated each 
borrowing application in isolation  and doesnt  think its required to reference  past borrowing 
or the information available  to it in the form of transactions on Mrs Js bank account held with 
Lloyds. And it said it accepted the information  Mrs J provided about her income in good  faith.
In January 2018 when Mrs J requested  a further loan, I thought  the checks Lloyds carried  
out were sufficient. I said this because: 
it was the first borrowing request she had made with the bank in two years;
her previous loan repayments were being kept up to date; 
there was no adverse  information showing on her credit file; 
her current  account didnt suggest  difficulties  such as permanently  or occasionally 
exceeding her overdraft; 
there was no suggestion  the loan would be used to pay other debts; and 
a more accurate  assessment of her income  and outgoings was made. 
Ref: DRN68937853However, based on the evidence Id seen of Mrs Js borrowing history with Lloyds, her bank 
statements showing other lending  she had taken elsewhere, and the information  I had about 
her income and expenditure, I didnt think Lloydss  affordability assessments continued to be 
sufficient and proportionate once Mrs J increased  her borrowing requests from March 2018  
onwards. I said this for the following reasons. 
The evidence Lloyds  provided indicated that the same checks were carried  out each 
time Mrs J requested further borrowing. These  checks  should  be proportionate, and 
relative to the situation, such as the amount  of borrowing requested and the 
customers lending history. Considering Mrs Js increasing borrowing with the bank, 
I thought the level of affordability checking  carried  out should have been extended.
The checks Lloyds carried out in March 2018 show  it took into account Mrs Js 
mortgage and the new loan repayment  amount in consideration of her outgoings.  
However Lloyds was aware  of other  loans  Mrs J already  had with it which  hadnt 
been repaid, and it didnt ask for information about any other  outgoings she had. Her 
bank account  with Lloyds showed  transactions which appear to have been loan 
repayments to other lenders, yet Id seen no evidence that Lloyds asked  Mrs J about 
these or otherwise took them into account in some way.
At each  borrowing application in January, March  and April 2018, Mrs J stated 
a different amount when Lloyds asked  about  her income.  Whilst Mrs J is responsible 
for providing truthful  information,  I also thought Lloyds should  have queried the large  
variances in her income over a four month period. And should  have asked for 
evidence of the correct amount or an explanation of the variance. 
Looking at Mrs Js Lloyds statements for the period  leading  up to her requesting the 
overdraft increase in April 2018, I could see that she was making  repayments  on 
three loans with Lloyds. I could  also see transactions which appeared to relate to 
loans with other banks, including a loan where  Mrs J was likely to have stood as 
guarantor for a third party. This demonstrates  a further liability  Mrs J had, which  
I thought Lloyds could have taken  into account. Based on the additional outgoings 
which Id identified from the bank statements, and considering  that she would also 
have general living  expenses, I thought Mrs J couldnt afford  the overdraft increase 
Lloyds approved. And I thought  Lloyds  should have identified this, as it also had 
access to the same  information Ive looked at. 
During a call with Mrs J in which Lloyds assessed her request for the overdraft  
increase in April 2018,  Mrs J said she had other bank accounts elsewhere where her 
pensions were  paid in. And Mrs J stated  that the rental income from one of her 
properties was paid into her account  with Lloyds, but the other was paid into 
a different bank  account. Ive seen no indication that Lloyds requested any further 
evidence from Mrs J of her income  and expenditure after finding out that she did not 
only bank with Lloyds.  
In April 2018, when  assessing her request for the overdraft increase, Lloyds asked 
Mrs J if she had mortgages  on her property and her rental properties. And she 
advised she was making mortgage payments totalling approximately  £1,150 per 
month. However at the point of the borrowing application in January 2018, she had 
stated her mortgage outgoings  to be around  £700 per month. And in March 2018 
when asked about this during another borrowing application, she said her mortgage 
Ref: DRN68937854payments were around £550. So it seems Mrs Js outgoings had increased 
substantially by the time she applied for an increase to her overdraft in April 2018. 
Lloyds held the information Mrs J had previously  given about her mortgage 
payments, and I thought the variance and increase in these amounts should have 
prompted Lloyds  to do more to check she could  afford the borrowing. 
In March 2016 when Mrs J had previously requested to increase her overdraft to 
£2,500, Lloyds said based on her income, this was the maximum it could offer as an 
overdraft, and it said any further  increases would likely  be declined.  This led me to 
think that Lloyds  had identified some affordability concerns at that time. I havent  
seen any evidence  that Mrs Js income had increased during the two years  between 
this and the requested overdraft increase to £3,500 in April 2018. And looking at 
Mrs Js statements for her account  with Lloyds,  and considering the information she 
gave the bank (which  I mentioned above), it seemed  her outgoings had been 
increasing. 
When reviewed in isolation by Lloyds, each separate instance  of lending may have appeared  
to be affordable to Mrs J. But I didnt think it fair that Lloyds assessed the applications in this 
way, without taking  into account the information it had available to it about her other 
borrowing and outgoings. And without asking  for more details of her income and expenditure 
in light of the discrepancies between her applications. Or taking into consideration the short 
timeframe over which she had requested two additional loans and a further overdraft 
increase. When I looked at all of this information  in the round,  I found I didnt think  the 
additional lending  granted to Mrs J in March and April 2018  was affordable. 
Mrs J approached Lloyds  for a further loan after it had increased her overdraft in April 2018. 
And said she wanted the loan to clear her overdraft debt as she couldnt  afford  the charges. 
I thought this demonstrated Mrs J had entered  a borrowing cycle  where  she was unable  to 
keep up with repayments on her debts and was taking out further  borrowing to pay off other  
lending. And I thought  Lloyds had sufficient information to have identified this in March and 
April 2018 when it made its decision to grant Mrs J further borrowing.  
In summary  I thought  the checks undertaken by Lloyds  at the point of the loan request and 
overdraft increase in March and April 2018 were inadequate in the circumstances. Had 
a more detailed  assessment  been  carried out of Mrs Js overall  borrowing  and her income  
and expenditure,  I thought it most likely  that Lloyds wouldnt  have agreed  to increase her 
borrowing at that time.  
I established that I didnt think Mrs J could afford the increased borrowing from March 2018  
onwards. But she did use the money,  either  to pay down other debts or for other things. So 
I thought it fair to expect her to repay  those debts.  But I didnt think she should have had to 
pay the interest and charges on the loan, or the increased overdraft facility granted  from this 
point on. 
However, Lloyds had recently informed me that it defaulted Mrs Js March  2018 loan in April 
2020. And Mrs J repaid  the remaining balance in full in August 2020.
Id explained why I didnt think the loan granted in March 2018 was affordable to Mrs J. So it 
followed that I didnt  think it fair for any adverse information to be recorded  on her credit  file 
about this debt. And I set out below  how I intended  for Lloyds to put things right.
The overdraft 
Ref: DRN68937855Lloyds confirmed Mrs J cleared her overdraft  debt, and the overdraft facility has since been  
removed from her account. I said Lloyds should calculate all interest  and charges Mrs J 
incurred above  the previous limit of £2,500,  and should refund these to her.
The loan granted in March 2018
I said Lloyds should put things right by doing  the following:
rework the account removing all interest and charges; 
apply all of Mrs Js repayments  (monthly and the lump  sum) to the capital borrowed;
return any overpayment to Mrs J together with interest at 8% simple from the date 
the loan was repaid in full, to the date settlement is made; and
remove all adverse  information it has recorded on Mrs Js credit file in relation to this 
loan. If its easier  for Lloyds to simply not report the loan at all to the credit  reference 
agencies then I think thats acceptable.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs J accepted my provisional  decision,  and advised that she is in significant  financial 
difficulty. 
Lloyds disagreed with my provisional decision. Ive summarised its reasons as follows.  
Monthly commitments from other borrowing  are included  in the affordability 
calculations  this is based on credit reference  agency and internal data. Essential 
living costs are also included based  on internal models. And Mrs Js declared 
housing costs reduced significantly between the March  and April applications,  and 
these were the figures used  for the assessment. 
It has velocity rules  in place, and the March 2018 loan application triggered one of 
these rules due to the two previous loans. This prompted it to ask Mrs J further 
questions, and she gave reassurances around  the purpose of the loan and said she 
didnt have other unsecured borrowing. 
Lloyds assessments of each  of Mrs Js applications showed the borrowing to be 
affordable, so the lending was granted. 
Its unreasonable to expect the bank to check a customers statements, especially in 
this case where  its known Mrs J does not only bank with Lloyds.  And other lending 
elsewhere was picked up via credit  reference agency data. Mrs J didnt mention any 
debts elsewhere  when she was asked. And Mrs J was also asked to tell the bank if 
she knew of any upcoming changes to her circumstances which could impact her 
ability to repay. It said if Mrs J had confirmed she was aware of upcoming  changes,  
it would  have asked  for more  information  and taken that into account.
Mrs J stated the same level of income in January and March  2018, but this reduced 
by around £10,000  in comparison to the amount she declared  in April 2018. Lloyds 
said this variance was likely  due to Mrs J owning buy to let properties. And taking 
the lower income amount, the borrowing was still affordable. 
Ref: DRN68937856Lloyds said it would  not have had access to information about Mrs J standing as 
a guarantor on another loan,  as this detail isnt provided by the credit reference  
agencies. 
Mrs J was required to provide truthful information  to Lloyds. 
The housing costs  Mrs J stated on each  application were not compared to previous 
applications, but the bank references  credit agency data. And based on that data, 
the borrowing  was deemed to be affordable. 
Lloyds said it didnt  have a record of it telling Mrs J further increases to her overdraft 
would likely be declined, following the increase to £2,500 in March  2016. 
Mrs J applied for three pieces of borrowing over four months, but this may have been 
because she underestimated the costs  of her home  improvements. Lloyds thinks it 
would have been unfair  to prevent her from taking  additional lending  as this may 
have meant she couldnt  finish  renovations and therefore would be unable to rent the 
property, adversely affecting her income.
The further loan Mrs J requested after April 2018  was declined for a number of 
reasons including the volume of loans  she already had, her credit score  and a failed 
affordability assessment.  
Lloyds could not have foreseen that Mrs J would lose some of her rental  income in 
mid-2018. And if Mrs J was aware  of this, she should have told the bank. 
Mrs J had told the bank she would repay  her loans once she received funds from 
a property sale in February 2019. However Mrs J directed  the money elsewhere and 
did not repay the loans. Mrs J owed money to family  and friends and Lloyds had not 
been told about this.
It disagreed that Mrs Js income  decreased  since  March 2018, mainly  because of 
a large payment she received in in March 2019, relating to a property sale.
Lloyds has assisted  Mrs J by freezing interest on her overdraft for a period, following 
her advising  she was in financial  difficulties in October 2018. And it gave  breathing 
space on her loan payments in early 2019.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of the responses.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that Lloyds  hasnt  done anything wrong. And Ill explain 
why.
I accept the corrected figures Lloyds has given in relation to Mrs Js stated income on the 
applications in 2018. And I accept Lloyds has shown it took into account information from 
credit reference agencies about  other borrowing Mrs J had. And used a tool to estimate her 
living expenses.
Ref: DRN68937857However, Lloyds has said it doesnt compare the information from previous applications, 
such as a customers stated housing costs. Lloyds holds this information, but it seems it 
chooses not to compare  it. And similarly,  Lloyds could  also review the information it holds 
within the customers bank statements, as Ive done  when  considering  this case.  But its said 
thats not part of its process. 
Lloyds said it asked  Mrs J additional  questions when she applied for the loan in March  2018, 
due to the two previous loans she already had with the bank. It said she gave reassurances  
around the purpose of the loan and said she didnt have other unsecured  borrowing. 
However Lloyds didnt ask her to provide any proof.
In the particular circumstances of this case,  including repeated  borrowing requests  within  
a short  time-frame, and Mrs J also banking  elsewhere and having her pension  and other  
income paid into an account with another  provider, I think it would have been reasonable 
and proportionate for the bank to have carried out additional checks. For example requesting 
further evidence,  and reviewing all of the information  it had in the round.
Im also still of the opinion  that Lloyds identified some potential  affordability issues with 
Mrs Js borrowing in 2016,  and advised  her it would  not increase  her overdraft beyond 
£2,500. A call recording provided from 9 March 2016, evidences  Mrs J being  given  the 
following information when her overdraft was increased at that time. 
You are at the maximum we can offer you any sort of further increases, were 
probably not going to be able to do that for you....  You are at the sort of maximum we 
can give you on the overdraft now based  on your income £2,500 is the very 
maximum we can give you.
Lloyds has said the substantial variance in income  stated by Mrs J between  the applications 
in March and April 2018 could have been due to changes in tenancy of her rental properties. 
And its said if it prevented Mrs J from taking further borrowing, it may have meant she would 
have been unable to complete renovations on her properties, which  would adversely affect 
her income. I think these are assumptions that may or may not have been correct. And I still 
think its reasonable that instead, the bank should  have asked Mrs J further questions,  and 
asked her to provide supporting evidence.  
I agree  Mrs J is required to provide accurate  information  to Lloyds and to answer its 
questions honestly.  However, in the particular circumstances  of this case, with repeated 
applications in a short timeframe, and Lloyds awareness that Mrs J also banked elsewhere, 
I dont think it was reasonable  for Lloyds to accept the information Mrs J provided about her 
finances, without  asking to see further  evidence. 
Ref: DRN68937858It seems  Mrs J may have been  disguising  some of her circumstances in order to secure 
additional borrowing. However, Lloyds was the professional in this banking relationship, and 
had a responsibility to ask sufficient questions and to identify potential discrepancies  and 
affordability issues before lending money to Mrs J. 
As the points raised havent changed  my mind,  I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint and direct Lloyds 
Bank PLC to do the following:
Overdraft
calculate all interest and charges Mrs J incurred above her overdraft limit of £2,500, 
and refund these  to her;
March 2018 loan 
rework the loan account removing all interest and charges; 
apply all of Mrs Js repayments  (monthly and the lump  sum) to the capital borrowed;
return any overpayment to Mrs J together with interest at 8% simple from the date 
the loan was repaid in full, to the date settlement is made; and
remove all adverse  information it has recorded on Mrs Js credit file in relation to this 
loan. If its easier  for Lloyds to simply not report the loan at all to the credit  reference 
agencies then I think thats acceptable.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2021.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6893785