K822xcomplaint
Mr S and Ms S say a change of trading  platform by Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) in 
2017 led to the following main problems/consequences:
Their joint account  mainly for Ms S benefit   was inaccessible  from August  2017 to 
around November  2017 and, in this respect,  they lost trading opportunities (and 
associated lost profits).
Barclays mishandled  its response  to the problem.
In the course  of addressing the initial access problem, Barclays  set up a new account 
around October 2017 which  also turned  out to be inaccessible  and was wrongly  
merged with her sisters account.
In the course  of addressing the second access problem, Barclays  breached  Ms S 
data protection  rights  by erroneously sending the relevant account details to her 
sister (who shares the same initial, surname  and address as Ms S, and has a 
separate joint account with Mr S). In this respect  and because of the similarities 
Barclays was expressly  instructed to send correspondence to Ms S by using her full 
name  but it did not.
background 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that Barclays should not 
offer more  than it already had to resolve it. In the main, he found as follows:
He summarised Barclays position on the complaint  which  is that it notified account 
holders (including  Mr S) in 2016  and again in June 2017 about  the impending 
platform migration in August 2017; the erroneous transfer  of assets (upon which the 
breach of data protection allegation  is based) was of Ms S sisters  assets  into Ms S 
and Mr S joint account, not the other way around; there  is no evidence of Mr S or Ms 
S having or expressing an intention to trade  in September  (as alleged), they could 
have used its telephone trading service for such a purpose  but did not, so their claim 
of financial loss in this respect is disputed;  however, it accepts there were failings in 
how it handled the matter and it has offered a total of £350  in compensation for this.
He broadly agreed with Barclays findings.
He noted that if Mr S and Ms S have regulation related concerns about Barclays  
management of data they can consider approaching  the relevant regulator.  With 
regards to the breach alleged in the complaint, evidence is that it was Ms S sister 
who experienced having her shares wrongly  allocated to Ms S (and Mr S) account.
Telephone call recording evidence shows that Mr S made  no mention of the alleged 
trading intention in September  2017  or October  2017 (despite him having a number 
of telephone conversations with Barclays in this month). There is also no evidence of 
him expressing this intention by email or letter. He ought reasonably to have used 
these alternative means if he intended to trade, as alleged.  The earliest evidence  of 
him mentioning  the trade to Barclays arises from November  2017   two months after 
the time (in September)  when the trading opportunity is claimed  to have been lost.
Overall, he was satisfied that Barclays offer of £350 is reasonable.
Ms S asked for an ombudsmans decision.  She was not satisfied that Barclays  offer 
sufficiently reflects the trouble and upset its mishandling of the overall  matter  has caused.
Ref: DRN61139412my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator for broadly the same reasons.
The matter  of Barclays mishandling the access problem  (and the associated issues)  does 
not appear to be in dispute. Barclays appears to recognise its fault in this respect and I 
consider that it did mishandle the matter.  Having said this, I also observe that its notice 
about the change of platform  service  gave information to account holders about  what  to 
expect. I do not suggest that this justified the problem  it did not  but it gave a form of 
forewarning that accessing accounts  could (or would) be different after the migration.
There is evidence that part of such forewarning was the need for customers  to use the 
available telephone dealing service where necessary. As the investigator noted,  there  is no 
evidence of Mr S or Ms S seeking to use this service   or using this service   to trade 
between September  and October 2017.  Furthermore, there is evidence  of telephone calls 
between the parties  at the time during which  the alleged trading intention was not 
mentioned. 
I consider it more likely  (than  not) that such an intention would have been mentioned if Mr S 
and/or Ms S were committed to pursuing  the relevant trade. It is possible that they were  
loosely thinking  about the particular trade  but the conclusion  that follows  from the lack of 
evidence showing any effort on their part to place  the trade by telephone or in writing at the 
time is that they were not committed to pursuing it. It would not be fair or reasonable to 
accept a claim for financial loss arising  from an alleged intended trade that they do not 
appear to have been committed  to make.
Ms S does not appear to have faced the main detriment that arose  from Barclays  mistake in 
merging the relevant accounts and in the misallocation of shares.  Both Ms S and her sister 
separately held their respective accounts, each  jointly with Mr S, and those accounts were  
wrongly merged. Evidence shows that it was her sisters assets which  were  wrongly  
allocated to her  not the other way around. She is notably upset about  the matter  of 
correspondence to their common home/address  and I can understand her feelings in this 
respect  particularly with regards  to her view that Barclays  breached her instructions. 
I do not wish to suggest this was not an important detriment and my use of the word main  
above is to reflect the fact that the misallocation went against  Ms S sister, not against Ms S. 
Nevertheless, the data breach was certainly a detriment. However, I consider that Barclays 
offer of £350  for the entire matter  also caters for the upset Ms S considers to have been 
caused in this respect, and I note that Barclays has also apologised for the breach (and for 
the merging error).
Barclays offer is broadly  consistent with what this service would order   as compensation for 
trouble and upset   in circumstances such as those in Mr S and Ms S case. In the absence  
of grounds to compensate them for financial loss, the surviving ground for compensation is 
the trouble and upset caused to them  in the overall  matter. The investigator  helpfully shared, 
with Ms S, a number of our past decisions on matters comparable to hers.  They reflected the 
sorts of awards for trouble and upset this service has made in such  matters and he 
explained why, in that context, he considered  Barclays offer to be fair. I share the 
investigators explanation and I am not persuaded that Barclays offer should be increased.
Ref: DRN61139413my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr S and Ms S complaint, but only in relation to the 
trouble and upset  caused to them. In this respect  I order Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay them  
£350, if it has not already done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S and Ms S to accept  or reject  my decision before 1 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6113941