K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that American  Express Services  Europe Limited (AESEL  or the business) 
has lent money to her husband, the late Mr T, irresponsibly.
Mrs T has brought the complaint to us on behalf  of her late husbands estate.
background
Mr T had a credit card with AESEL. He was the main account  holder and Mrs T was the 
supplementary card holder. In early 2018, Mrs T contacted the business saying that Mr T 
had a problem  with alcohol and asked for the credit  card to be blocked. The card was 
blocked on two occasions. Each time this happened Mr T called AESEL who then reinstated  
the credit  card.  In early  September 2018, Mr T sadly passed away. Mrs T complained to 
AESEL shortly after saying it had acted irresponsibly by continuing to lend to her late 
husband knowing of the problems shed  raised.
AESEL acknowledged  that Mrs T had advised  it that her husband  had a problem with 
alcohol. It said it did act on her instructions. Firstly, in February  2018  and then again  in May 
the same  year.  But when Mr T, as the account-holder, called to say he wanted the card 
unblocked, it considered it had no option but to reinstate his access  to the available credit.
Further, AESEL said that when Mrs T advised  it in May 2018 that her husband was 
unemployed and it was her that was making  the payments to the account,  it had explained to 
her that as a supplementary card member,  she wasnt  responsible for making the payments. 
AESEL also told Mrs T that if it didnt receive  a payment the card would be automatically 
blocked and if non-payment continued,  the account  would  be cancelled.  AESEL  said that 
shortly after this conversation the direct debit instruction was cancelled  and a payment was 
missed in June 2018. But then shortly  after it received a new direct debit instruction from 
Mr T and the missed payment was paid in July.
AESEL added that without a request for assistance from Mr T directly,  and while his account  
remained in good  order, it wasnt in a position  to cancel the account or to arrange a 
repayment plan.  In August 2018, when  AESEL was told Mr T was in hospital and it was clear  
he was physically unable  to make payments due to his medical  condition,  it could take 
addition steps.  It requested documentation confirming his condition  from Mrs T and restricted  
the use of his card. But Mr T passed away before the documentation was provided.
AESEL considered itd taken all appropriate  steps  in Mr Ts case so it didnt uphold the 
complaint. It did however  say it wouldnt be pursuing the outstanding debt of £2,002 from his 
estate. As Mrs T remained unhappy  with AESELs response, she brought the complaint to 
our service.  
Our investigator looked into the concerns raised  by Mrs T. The investigator didnt agree that 
AESEL had been irresponsible in continuing  to provide the credit card to Mr T so she didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mrs T disagreed with the investigators view. She said AESEL, by continuing to give Mr T 
access to credit which enabled him to purchase  alcohol, contributed  to his death. So she 
considered its actions irresponsible. Mrs T asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN69232152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to express my sincere  condolences  to Mrs T for her loss. I appreciate  this 
must be a difficult time for her.
The crux of Mrs Ts complaint was that her husband was vulnerable due to an alcohol 
problem, and that AESEL should  not have continued to lend to him once they became  aware  
of this. But having looked at everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Amongst other things, AESEL terms and conditions say: 
we may suspend your account or any feature on your account if: youre in breach  of 
the agreement  and/ or we reasonably think theres a significantly increased risk that 
youll not be able to repay us
It goes on to say that:
Well allow you to use the account,  if the reasons we suspended your account  in the 
first place no longer  apply. You can tell us this is the case and request reinstatement  
via our website or by calling us.
In respect of ending the agreement, AESEL can do this in a number of scenarios  including  
when the main cardholder becomes incapacitated  or dies and/ or it has reasonable grounds 
to believe the account holder is unable or unwilling to pay their debts when due.
With these terms  and conditions in mind along with the evidence  submitted by Mrs T and 
AESEL, Ill now go on to consider Mr Ts particular  circumstances.
As noted above,  Mrs T contacted AESEL asking for Mr Ts account to be blocked.  But as the 
supplementary account holder, Mrs T had no authority to put a permanent  stop on the 
account. Mr T was the main account-holder  and he was solely responsible  for the credit 
used and the repayments that needed  to be made.  But given what  Mrs T was telling the 
business, I would expect it to take steps to ensure  lending to Mr T was still appropriate. And 
from what I can see Mrs Ts concerns were taken  seriously by AESEL.
When Mr T called the business after his card was blocked, he was asked by the AESEL  
adviser how he was finding  the minimum payments and whether he needed  any help. But 
from call notes it appears that Mr T told the adviser  that if he needed  any help, he would ask 
for it. And whilst I appreciate what Mrs T says about Mr T being in denial about  his 
condition, Mr Ts reaction does suggest he was in a position to ask for help if this was what  
he felt was needed.
In another call note I can see that Mr T questioned AESEL about why the direct  debit had 
been cancelled.  A new form was sent to Mr T, which he completed  and returned  to AESEL 
within a few days. I consider this indicates  Mr T was able to manage his account  without any 
assistance. Mrs T said she cancelled the direct  debit as she was making the payments from 
their joint bank account. But as noted above,  AESEL made it clear to her that as the 
supplementary card holder she wasnt responsible  for this. And as Mr T set up the direct  
Ref: DRN69232153debit mandate,  I dont  think  AESEL had acted unreasonably  by following his instructions to 
use a bank account he had authority to use.
Having reviewed his bank statements, I can see that Mr T didnt make use of the full credit  
balance of £6,100. By the time of his death,  the balance  outstanding on his account was 
£2,002 and it never went beyond £2,160  during the period February  to September  2018. 
Further, Mr T was making payments on time.  As noted above,  when  the direct debit was 
cancelled in June  2018, he did miss a payment. But this was reinstated a few days  later after 
Mr T contacted the business to find out what had happened. And when Mrs T said it was her 
money being used  to make payments, she was given advice that she didnt  have to do this. 
So looking  at the overall management of the account, I dont  think AESEL acted 
unreasonably in continuing  to provide  credit card facilities to Mr T.
I know Mrs T says she told AESEL  that she had medical evidence of Mr Ts alcohol problem. 
But when Mr T was still able to contact the business  directly and was capable of responding 
to questions about his well-being,  I dont consider the business  acted unreasonably  by not 
pursuing this any further with her.
I see that when  Mrs T called the business  in August 2018, informing AESEL that her 
husband was in hospital it did take extra steps  to assist including  restricting use of the card.  
Unlike the previous  occasions, Mr T wasnt capable of dealing  directly with AESEL. And 
extra measures were  reasonable under these  circumstances.  Further,  I note AESEL arent 
pursuing the debt from Mr Ts estate  and that Mrs T has been made aware  of this.
So taking everything into account, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Ts position,  for the reasons 
outlined above,  I wont be asking AESEL to do anything further  and Im not upholding the 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T on behalf of 
Mr Ts estate, to accept or reject my decision before 13 September  2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6923215