K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy 
when she took out a mortgage was Bank of Scotland plc in 1997.
background
Mrs J took out a PPI policy when  she borrowed  £64,000 over 25 years  using a mortgage in 
1997. The repayments were around  £430 a month and the PPI cost a further  £23.30 a 
month. The policy covered Mrs Js mortgage  repayments, plus a little more,  if she was 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment for up to 12 months  in any one 
claim. The mortgage ended in 2005.
Mrs J said she didnt realise  that PPI had been  added when she took out her mortgage and it 
wasnt made clear it was optional. She said she didnt need it as she had substantial savings 
and other  ways to make  her repayments if she was out of work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld, but Mrs J disagreed  so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint as Id come to the same conclusion  as our 
adjudicator, but for different reasons. I explained  that Id come to this conclusion after 
looking at all of the available evidence and arguments, but I invited both parties to send me 
anything else they wanted me to think about.
I looked at how the policy  was sold and set out my conclusions.
did Mrs J have a fair choice to take out PPI?
Mrs J said PPI was added without  her agreement and wasnt  presented as an optional 
product. Bank of Scotland said that Mrs J took out the mortgage when applying for her 
mortgage in a branch. Unfortunately as the sale took place so long ago, there werent  
complete records of the documents Mrs J filled in at the time. I said I wasnt surprised by this 
as theres no requirement for Bank of Scotland to keep records forever. So I looked at all of 
the paperwork and took into account what both Mrs J and Bank of Scotland said happened.
I saw Mrs Js mortgage offer. It didnt  say Mrs J took out PPI at that stage,  but it did talk 
about some  other insurances that were conditions of having  the mortgage,  for example 
buildings insurance.  So I didnt think PPI was something she had to have to get the 
mortgage and I thought  she could  have taken the mortgage without PPI. But the offer did say 
that Bank  of Scotland strongly advised Mrs J to consider arranging  PPI to cover  her 
repayments. So I thought it was likely PPI was added after the mortgage  offer was made.
I noted it was possible  that PPI was added to Mrs Js mortgage without her agreement. But 
from what I knew, it was paid for separately  from the normal  mortgage repayment and I 
hadnt seen the Mrs J ever questioned that she was paying for something she didnt want or 
need. On balance, I didnt think there was enough  for me to say Mrs J wasnt given a clear 
choice to take out PPI.
was the policy suitable for Mrs J?
Ref: DRN68836202Bank of Scotland said it advised  Mrs J to take out PPI, so it had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for her needs. I thought that the recommendation was suitable  for the following 
reasons:
Mrs J was eligible for the PPI.
Mrs J didnt seem to be affected by any of the exclusions in the policy.
Mrs J said she had over twelve months of full sick pay, so she didnt need  to have the 
cover PPI gave her. I thought this would have been an extremely generous and 
unusual level of sick pay, so I asked for Mrs J to provide anything further to show she 
had this benefit  by the time of my provisional  decision, Mrs J hadnt  responded to 
my request. I wasnt  convinced she would  have had over twelve months of full sick 
pay, but in any event  the PPI would  have paid out on top of any sick pay she had and 
possibly for longer.
Mrs J provided  a copy of a statement showing that she had around £12,600 left after 
she sold her first house and moved into the one bought using the Bank of Scotland  
mortgage. I saw that she put down a deposit of £8,500, so she borrowed more than 
she needed to when buying the new house.  I asked Mrs J what  her plans were for 
the £12,600, but by the time of my provisional decision, she hadnt responded to my 
question. On balance, I didnt think she wanted  to use the £12,600 to pay toward the 
house and the PPI meant it would be protected if she was out of work.
It appeared that Mrs J could  afford  the policy at the time and I hadnt  seen  anything  
showing that she had a need to keep her costs down.
was Mrs J given information that was clear,  fair and not misleading?
  
Bank of Scotland had to give Mrs J enough  information so that she could  decide  whether to 
take out the PPI. I looked at the documentation  that had been provided and I couldnt  be 
certain she was given all the information  about the policy that she needed. But I thought  
Mrs J would have bought the policy even  if she had all of the information when she signed 
up for it.
I said that as Mrs J would have been  eligible for the full benefits. And I didnt  think she would 
have been affected by any of the exclusions.  As Id already found,  the policy was suitable 
and affordable for Mrs J and I thought  she chose  to take it out. So I didnt  think that knowing 
more about the cost and benefit would have  put Mrs J off taking it out.
So I didnt think Mrs J was worse off as a result  of anything Bank of Scotland did wrong.
Neither Mrs J nor Bank  of Scotland responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js complaint. 
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason  to depart from it.
Ref: DRN68836203my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019..
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6883620