K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refused his application for a 
current and basic account. He has also complained about the wording of an email he 
received from Barclays about a Basic Account.
background
Mr J applied for a current account  with Barclays  which was declined  in November 2018. He 
then received a further email offering him the opportunity to apply for a Barclays Basic  
Current Account. This was also turned down.
Mr J complained to Barclays who said that the reason he had been turned down was 
because the credit score that Barclays gave him was not high enough to open  either  a 
current or basic account with them.
Unhappy with the banks explanation, Mr J brought this complaint to our service in 
December 2018.  Our investigator looked at the complaint and decided that Barclays  didnt  
do anything wrong  in deciding to refuse Mr J an account. 
In addition Mr J complained about  the wording used in the email to him from Barclays  
regarding the offer to apply for a basic account,  which he felt was misleading. Barclays  
offered an apology for the wording in the email  and indicated  they would review  emails on 
basic accounts in the future. Our investigator felt this was a fair outcome.
Mr J does not agree with the investigators  view. In summary, he seeks compensation from 
Barclays for the stress  and inconvenience he feels they caused him by sending  a misleading 
email, and by the way they handled his application.  So the complaint was referred to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Has Barclays unreasonably refused Mr J either  a basic  or current  account with them?
Its correct that a bank  can make  its own decisions about whether or not to accept someone 
as a customer. And it doesnt have to give reasons.  In the same  vein, an individual does not 
have to give reasons  why they decide to no longer be a customer  of a bank. 
Barclays has its own policies about  who should  be offered new accounts, including credit  
scoring prospective customers and I have  seen nothing  to make me think  Barclays have 
done anything  wrong in refusing to open  either a personal or basic account  for Mr J. 
Barclays is entitled to take its own decision,  based on the information available to it at the 
time, not to open an account  for Mr J or any other customer. So I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Ref: DRN69500222Barclays email to Mr J about a Basic account
Mr J did receive  an email  from Barclays offering  him the opportunity to open a basic  account  
with them.  Mr J feels he was led to believe he would only need to go to the branch as a 
formality to get the account, but Barclays subsequently turned him down when he applied  for 
it. Mr J is unhappy about the wording  in the email  he received, saying he has been going  
through a difficult  period due to personal circumstances at the same time he was dealing  
with Barclays, and that this whole matter  caused  him stress and inconvenience
Barclays acknowledge that the wording in the email and their subsequent  refusal  to offer Mr 
J a basic account  has caused a degree  of upset for him. They have said that customers  who 
do not achieve a score high enough for a current account can become eligible for a basic 
account with a lower  score. Unfortunately this was not the case with Mr Js application. So, 
while I appreciate  this would have been  disappointing for Mr J after receiving Barclays 
email, Barclays  still didnt  do anything  wrong  by declining  his application.  
Barclays have apologised  for the wording  in the email  and said they will pass  on feedback  
from Mr Js case  in order to avoid other prospective customers  being disappointed in the 
future. Weighing everything up, I think this is a fair outcome  in the circumstances,  so I wont 
be asking Barclays to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Carl Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6950022