K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured bridging loan Mr E and Ms O took out with Social Money 
Limited (SML) in 2016. Mr E and Ms O didnt  repay  the loan by the due date. SML appointed 
Law of Property Act Receivers to manage the debt.  The Receivers took possession 
proceedings; the court granted  a possession order in late 2017, and after a number of further 
hearings, Mr E and Ms O were evicted in 2018.  Mr E and Ms O complain that the loan was 
mis-sold. They also complain about  the interest rate and charges SML applied after they 
missed the due date for repaying  the loan. 
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 3 December 2019, which is attached below  and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. 
I initially gave the parties  until 17 December 2019 to reply. Social  Money responded saying it 
had nothing further to say. Mr E and Ms O asked for, and were  granted,  an extension  until 
3 January 2020 to provide  their response. Weve heard  from a third party representing  Mr E 
and Ms O, asking that we call for further  information from SML and pass it on for the third 
partys consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded I need 
to depart from my provisional decision. 
I said in the provisional  decision that we dont take instructions from either  side on how we 
conduct our investigations. Its also for me to decide if I have enough information and 
evidence to reach a decision. Mr E and Ms Os representative may feel they need more 
information, but having looked at the list of items they wish to see, I dont consider that I 
need anything  more to reach my decision on the complaint before me.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  we have no power to consider the actions of the 
Receivers, so theres no reason for me to seek the Receivers accounts.  I also explained in 
my provisional decision that our investigation was confined to the lending decision and 
whether SML was entitled to apply the interest, fees and charges that were  added to the 
debt after the repayment date passed.  That being  the case, the methodology of the sale in 
possession isnt part of the complaint. 
This matter has been with the Financial Ombudsman Service  for a long time, and in fairness, 
thats partly  because of the high demand  for the service we provide. But I have to be fair to 
both parties, and in a case  where  a lender has suspended action  for recovery  of a shortfall 
pending a resolution, I dont  consider it appropriate or reasonable to delay my determination 
any further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is I dont uphold  this 
complaint, and make no order  or award against  Social Money Limited. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  
Ref: DRN69976552in any further  discussion  of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Ms O, or 
their representative on their behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69976553CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a secured bridging loan Mr E and Ms O took out with Social Money  Limited  
(SML) in 2016. Mr E and Ms O didnt  repay the loan by the due date. SML appointed Law of Property 
Act Receivers to manage the debt. The Receivers  took possession proceedings;  the court granted a 
possession order in late 2017, and after a number  of further hearings, Mr E and Ms O were evicted in 
2018. Mr E and Ms O complain that the loan was mis-sold. They also complain about the interest rate 
and charges SML applied after they missed the due date for repaying  the loan. 
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, using my 
own words  to do so, and also rounding some of the amounts involved.  No discourtesys intended  by 
that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide,  and if I dont mention something,  it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of 
the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  the consumers  when my decision is published.
Towards the end of 2015,  Mr E and Mas O engaged the services of a broker Ill call YE. Mr E and Ms 
O were looking to borrow money as they were behind with their payments to a number of existing 
creditors; included amongst these were their first mortgage lender. YE introduced Mr E and Ms O to 
SML, and an application for a loan was made.
SML agreed to lend Mr E and Ms O money; the terms of the loan were  confirmed in a facility 
agreement dated 20 January  2016. The main features of the facility  were:
a loan of £205,000, of which a little under  £57,000 was retained by SML to cover roll-up interest 
(at 1.65% per month)  and assorted fees and charges,  with the balance being  made  available  for 
Mr E and Ms O to use;
the loan to be repaid  no later than 12 months from the date of drawdown;
Mr E and Ms O were entering into the agreement wholly or predominantly for the purposes of a 
business carried on or intended to be carried  on by them;
if the loan wasnt repaid when due, it would attract further interest (which would need to be paid 
rather than be allowed  to roll up) plus a facility fee of 1.5%  a month until repaid;
the facility fee would be waived provided Mr E and Ms O were never more than five days late in 
making any payments due and didnt  breach any other term of the agreement.
When the loan fell due for repayment in January 2017, Mr E and Ms O werent  in a position to pay it. 
They say they tried refinancing  the debt owed  to SML but the lenders they approached were all 
reluctant to help. This,  they say, was because SML had breached Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) 
rules by providing an unregulated loan when  it should have been regulated.
SML served a final demand on Mr E and Ms O on 7 April 2017, and appointed Receivers  on 12 April 
2017. The Receivers, whom Ill refer to as B, started possession proceedings, and in August 2017, 
the case  went  to court. Mr E and Ms O submitted a defence, which  included the argument that the 
loan should have been granted  as a regulated agreement, and that SML had breached FCA rules  by 
providing unregulated lending. The court granted possession to SML, and after several further 
hearings lasting until October 2018, Mr E and Ms O were evicted.
Mr E and Ms O brought the complaint to us. We explained that we couldnt  consider the actions of the 
Receivers, as once appointed they acted as agents for Mr E and Ms O, not for SML.  We also 
Ref: DRN69976554explained that we wouldnt  interfere with the decisions of the court to grant the possession order and 
eviction warrant. That meant our investigation was confined to the lending decision and whether  SML 
was entitled to apply the interest, fees and charges  that were added to the debt after the repayment 
date passed.
By now, the property had been sold in possession, and all secured  creditors had been repaid. SML 
had received just under £413,200.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld in part. He said that E rather  than SML had 
arranged the loan; SML had merely provided  the funds. As far as the terms of the agreement,  and the 
unregulated nature  of it, he noted that Mr E and Ms O had received independent  legal  advice before 
entering into the agreement. Their legal  representative had confirmed  that he had explained the full 
nature and effect of the agreement to Mr E and Ms O, and then witnessed their signatures on the 
agreement.
But the adjudicator wasnt convinced that the interest, fees and charges applied after the repayment 
date were fair. According to SMLs own evidence (and that of B to the court  in the possession  
proceedings) it had applied a default fee of 5% every six months  and default interest  of 2.5% each 
month. These figures he said, werent in the facility agreement.  He recommended SML re-work the 
account by applying the rates specified in the facility agreement.
Neither party  agreed  with the adjudicators findings.  SML agreed that the amounts charged after the 
repayment date were wrong. The six-monthly default fee shouldnt have been charged at all, but the 
remaining charges werent too high;  in fact, they were  too low. Under the agreement, the facility  fee of 
1.5% a month was due alongside the interest rate of 1.65%,  making a combined  charging rate of 
3.15% rather  than the 2.5% that had been  charged. 
SML recalculated the account using  the combined rate of 3.15% monthly and removing the six-
monthly default fee of 5% altogether. This produced a revised closing  balance on sale of the property  
of approximately £459,750. This meant there was a shortfall of approximately  £46,500. SML said that 
as a gesture of goodwill, it would  agree not to pursue Mr E and Ms O for the shortfall, in order to draw 
a line under  the matter.
Meanwhile, Mr E and Ms Os reiterated much of the case wed already said we wouldnt be looking at. 
They also argued  that:
SML had acted as broker as well as lender;
they were effectively trapped into taking out the loan because  the £57,000 or so of interest,  fees 
and charges were  payable  whether they took it or not; and 
the property had been  sold for less than it was worth. 
The adjudicator explained  that their concerns about the selling price would need to be the subject of a 
new complaint  to SML first before we could consider it. He then referred  the current  complaint for 
review by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us
Ref: DRN69976555Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round.
Im satisfied from looking  at all of the available evidence that SMLs role was provider of the loan; it 
didnt sell Mr E and Ms O the loan or advise them  on its suitability for their needs and circumstances. 
Their broker YE was responsible for those  elements  of the transaction; if they think the broker got 
things wrong,  theyd need  to complain separately to it. If they did, however, they wouldnt then be able 
to refer that complaint  to us as theyve  done  with this one against SML. Thats  because  advising on 
and selling unregulated  bridging loans  isnt an activity that our rules allow us to look at.
On that latter point, the agreement  makes it quite clear that the loan SML was offering was 
unregulated, because it was being provided for business purposes. The facility agreement made  this 
quite clear, and Mr E and Ms Os solicitor confirmed  hed explained the terms of the agreement to 
them. They (and he) signed a declaration confirming  they knew  and understood what  they were 
committing themselves  to.
Ive considered Mr E and Ms Os argument that they were effectively trapped into taking out the loan 
 because of the up-front  costs. Section 15.1 of the facility agreement (where the costs are listed) 
says theyre payable whether the loan is made or not; section 15.2 says theyll  be deducted from the 
loan amount  prior to the balance being paid out to the borrowers. 
I agree theres some  scope  for confusion there; the two narratives do contradict each other to a 
degree. But its important  to remember that Mr E and Ms O had their solicitor to help them understand 
the terms of the agreement. If they (or he) was unsure about anything, they could have checked the 
position with SML first. But given the wider circumstances, Im not convinced thats the real issue 
here.
The broader  truth here is that Mr E and Ms O needed  money in hurry,  to satisfy existing creditors and 
possibly stave off recovery  action by them.  Their  broker referred  them  to SML, and SML provided 
them with a loan at short notice. Overall,  Im not convinced Mr E and Ms O took out the loan because  
they felt trapped by the prospect of non-refundable fees.  I think  they took it out because, quite simply, 
they needed it.
The terms  of the loan  in particular the interest rates,  fees and default clauses - reflected the nature 
of the lending; that is, an urgent need for funds in the short term combined  with a high risk that the 
money might not be repaid  on time.  That risk came to fruition when Mr E and Ms O couldnt  repay the 
loan before  the due date. SML held them  to the original contract terms, which meant applying the 
facility fee as well as the interest rate; it also meant SML could  and did  appoint  LPA Receivers to 
manage the account, and debit the costs of the appointment to the account
Its important to remember that SML is a business that lends money  in the reasonable expectation 
that it will be repaid in full and on time. When assessing how to get its money back, one of its 
concerns is which of the possible courses of action available to it is most likely to result in the money  
it has lent being  repaid.  Thats exercising commercial judgment, and for the most part, we wont 
usually interfere with the way a business does that.
Ive looked carefully at what section 7 of the facility agreement says about  what  SML can charge  if the 
loan isnt repaid when due. Ive also looked at what it did charge. Having  done so, Im not persuaded  
SML has charged more than the contract allows it to. If anything, it has charged less and the shortfall 
identified in the recalculation is valid, albeit  SML is currently  prepared not to pursue it. 
If Mr E and Ms O dont agree, its up to them  to arrange for the loan account  to be audited  by an 
independent third party  who is suitably-qualified to carry out such  a task. That would have to be at 
their expense to begin with, but if an audit revealed  errors  in their favour,  they could, in a new 
Ref: DRN69976556complaint, claim  back  the cost of the audit alongside any amounts revealed by the audit as owing  to 
them. Before they do, they may wish to keep  in mind that if the audit doesnt find in their favour,  
theyve be left with the cost of it, and could  also be pursued for the shortfall  if SML were to change its 
mind.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Social Money Limited
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 17 December 2019, or sooner  if both parties  
confirm theyve said and provided everything they want in response to this provisional  decision. 
Neither party  need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6997655