K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  unfairly declined a claim he made under his 
home emergency cover, hes unhappy with the level of service provided.
background
Mr T has service breakdown cover  for home emergencies  with UKI. In February 2018 Mr Ts 
boiler wasnt working and he contacted UKI. An engineer was called and came  to his home  
the following  morning.  After several hours the engineer left, saying he would  return after 
getting some  parts.
Mr T called UKI later that day he was told the engineer wouldnt be returning  as his boiler 
would not be covered  by the insurance.  This was because  it was over ten years old and not 
under a guarantee. Mr T complained to UKI, saying he wanted  his money back  as hed spent  
around £700 to have  this issue resolved.
UKI said Mr T had initially advised in a phone call that his boiler was seven years  old  which 
it took on good faith. But once it established  the boiler was over ten years  old it wasnt able 
to continue with any work  in line with the policy Mr T had in place. But it said it would offer 
him £50 to account for unclear communication.
Mr T brought  his complaint to our service. He said UKI shouldnt  have begun works on his 
boiler if it wasnt covered.  And he was unhappy  the engineer hadnt returned,  leaving the 
cover off of the boiler. Mr T also raised concerns about the way UKI handled his complaint.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr Ts policy  
doesnt cover boilers over ten years  old so she wouldnt ask UKI to cover the repair. And she 
felt £50 for trouble and upset was fair in the circumstances.
Mr T disagreed and said he felt UKI had lied about what happened. He said its engineer 
shouldve known from the outset that his boiler wasnt covered. And he asked  for £300 
compensation. Because he disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr Ts policy provides him with home  emergency  cover. Under the What  is not covered  
section it says it will not cover boilers over ten years  old. Its not in dispute that Mr Ts boiler 
is older than this, so I wouldnt  expect  UKI to cover  any repairs to it as a result.
Mr T has explained  he initially believed  his boiler  was only seven years old when he first 
called UKI. UKI said it took this on good  faith which is why it sent out an engineer the 
following morning. Taking this into account I dont  think UKI was at fault for not immediately 
knowing the details  of Mr Ts boiler  especially as he was unsure himself. 
Ref: DRN67253412Following an inspection  the engineer fitted a pressure sensor but found a second part  a 
printed circuit board  was also needed.  When this was ordered UKI said it became aware  of 
the age of the boiler due to its serial number. I dont think its unreasonable that the engineer 
didnt identify the age of the boiler sooner  than this. 
Mr T has raised  concerns  about the information he was given. And I agree  that UKI couldve 
told Mr T his boiler wouldnt be covered sooner  than it did. I say this as it seems  Mr T was 
only this after calling  UKI himself. UKI has awarded £50 to compensate for this delay. And 
given this couldve only delayed  Mr Ts decision to proceed with another engineer by several 
hours, I think  this is fair. 
Mr T has said he felt the engineer left the boiler  in an unsafe  condition, and this couldve 
caused damage to the property. Ive not seen any evidence that the boiler was left in an 
unsafe condition,  nor have I seen anything  to show any actual  damage  was caused. And in 
any case Mr T told us a separate engineer  attended  his home the following day and was 
able to repair or replace the boiler  to working  condition.
For these reasons Im satisfied UKIs  decision to decline the claim was fair, and its offer of 
£50 to account for communication is reasonable.
Mr T has raised  concerns  about the way UKI has investigated this complaint. Because  
complaint handling is not a regulated activity, this is not something our service can look into.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6725341