K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that the TSB Bank plc (TSB) broke a commitment not to lower  the 5% 
interest rate on his Classic Plus account after a year.  It was reduced to 3% after 14 months.  
He feels the rate ought to have remained at 5% for at least  3 years and wants £90 in 
compensation for the time, distress and inconvenience he has been caused. 
background
Following the well publicised difficulties TSB encountered at the beginning of 2018, and in 
order to express its gratitude to its customers for their loyalty and forbearance, TSB 
introduced a series  of measures one of which was to increase the interest  rate on the 
Classic Plus account to 5% from May 2018. In early 2019 TSB announced their intention to 
reduce the interest rate on the account  to 3% as from the 2 July 2019.
Mr F held such  an account with the TSB,  and said the TSBs CEO made a commitment  on a 
radio programme that the rate increase was there  for good. He also said he received an 
email from TSB which said in part;
 .. we are also increasing  the interest  rate on our Classic Plus account from 3% to 
5%. We promise this wont be taken away after a year. 
Mr F recognises it would  be unrealistic to expect  the 5% rate to remain indefinitely but feels 
that in the light of the statements made, it should  be for a minimum of 3 years.
TSB accepted it made those statements, but said that it was relying on the terms and 
conditions of the account which stated  that the interest rate was variable. It also said that it 
gave Mr F notice  of the change to the interest  rate so didnt feel it had done anything wrong.
Mr F was unhappy with TSBs response  and so an investigator from this service looked into 
the complaint  but didnt think TSB had done  anything wrong.  Mr F disagreed  with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  Looking  at the available evidence,  I think we have  an unfortunate situation 
here occasioned by some  clumsy  statements. 
TSBs CEOs comment  could  easily be interpreted  as meaning that the interest rate increase 
to 5% was permanent. Mr F recognises  that it would be unrealistic to hold the TSB to that 
statement and I agree, since that is probably  not what  the CEO  meant  to say, given the 
account was quite clearly  a variable interest rate account. The comment was made in the 
course of a radio  interview and when  taken in context the CEO was probably trying  to say it 
was a rate that wouldnt be removed after a short period of time.  In addition, TSB then 
partially corrected that statement by sending  an email to Mr F.
Having read the relevant part of the email, I can understand Mr Fs point that it says the 
interest rate wont be taken away after a year. That could  be interpreted  as being open 
ended and therefore continuing  indefinitely, but again I think that would be an unrealistic 
Ref: DRN63549462view. The email statement  could  also be interpreted  as meaning the rate would  not be taken 
away on the 12 month anniversary of the increase. 
What I need to decide is whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr F. 
The statements  made by TSB were  not clear and open to a variety of interpretations. 
However, the fundamental point is that the account was a variable interest  rate account, 
meaning that Mr F would  have known and expected the rate would go up and down from 
time to time. Further, Mr F understands that this particular interest  rate increase would be 
time limited since he has suggested 3 years would be reasonable.
The issue,  in part, then boils down to what is a reasonable length of time for the interest rate 
to remain at 5%. Mr F argues that 14 months is too short and contends for 36 months.  The 
problem which immediately arises  is that in picking  any length of time there is little 
foundation to justify such a period. Rhetorically,  why would 6, 18 or 24 months  not be 
reasonable? 
The terms and conditions  of the account set out a mechanism  for varying  the interest rate, 
that being that notice must  be given  to its customers. That is done for good  reason so that 
customers are fully informed and able to make  subsequent decisions about their financial 
affairs should they wish to. That is a reasonable approach to take and that was done here. 
The 5% interest rate did, as a fact, remain  in place for longer than a year and so TSB have 
on one view maintained  their commitment not to remove  the interest rate after a year. Notice  
was then given  in accordance with the terms and conditions,  so I cant say that TSB has 
done anything  wrong since it has abided by the agreement it had with Mr F, and it is those 
terms and conditions which govern the relationship  between Mr F and TSB.
I know Mr F will be disappointed with my decision  but I have come  to the same conclusion  
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  Im not satisfied that TSB have  treated  Mr F 
unfairly, and so Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank plc. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr F to accept or reject  
my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6354946