K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the cover British Gas Insurance  Limited (British Gas) provided  under
his home  emergency  policy.
background
Mr A has insurance with British Gas which covers repairs and an annual  service of his
central heating system.  British Gas carried out the annual service  at the end of November
2018. Mr A says a few hours later there  was a leak from one of his radiators which  caused
significant damage to the kitchen flooring. He believes that was because  the boiler pressure
was left at too high a level. Mr A had the radiator fixed  by his own plumber.
On 10 December Mr A got back in touch with British Gas and said the pressure in the boiler
had dropped and his heating and hot water  had stopped working.  British  Gas added leak
sealant to the system on two occasions  but this didnt solve  the problem. On a further  visit on
15 December it identified  a leak from pipework under the floor and repaired this two days
later which resolved the problem.
British Gas didnt  think the initial radiator leak was caused by its engineer.  But in order  to try
and resolve the matter  it offered to pay £500 to Mr A. In relation to the leak under the floor it
accepted there had been some missed  appointments and customer service failings and
offered to pay £275 in recognition of this.
Our investigator thought the offer in relation  to the leak under the floor was reasonable. And
she accepted  the evidence as to the cause  of the radiator  leak was limited. But she noted
the short timeframe between the annual  service and the leak and that Mr As plumber had
identified an issue with pressure in his invoice. So she thought it likely there was a
connection here. She recommended British  Gas pay to replace the flooring in Mr As kitchen
(using quotes hed provided as a basis for this).
Mr A agreed with her recommendation  but British Gas didnt. It said it was usual to re-
pressurise a boiler as part of an annual  service and the engineer would have been correct to 
do that. It didnt think there  was evidence to show anything the engineer did caused  the
subsequent radiator leak. But it said it was nevertheless prepared to pay £750 towards the
replacement flooring. Mr A didnt  agree  to that.
I reached a provisional  decision on the complaint last month.  In summary I said:
Ive looked first at Mr As policy with British Gas.  I can see he has a central  heating  policy
which covers his boiler, controls  and central heating on a service and repair  basis.  And the
definition of central heating in the policy includes the radiators and radiator valves at his
property. The policy says at an annual service an engineer will check the central heating is
working safely and in line with the relevant laws and regulations.
In this case I dont think  its in dispute  that when the engineer attended to carry out the
annual service they re-pressurised the boiler at Mr As property. I agree with British  Gas
thats a standard part of the annual service. Whats more difficult to establish is whether the
engineer left the pressure at too high a level and whether  that caused the subsequent
radiator leak.
Ref: DRN65378822But I understand the central heating at Mr As property was in operation when the leak took
place as hes said the water from the radiator was extremely hot. I think  its unlikely that if the
boiler had been re-pressurised beyond a safe level the central  heating  would have operated
at all because the boilers safety mechanisms would have prevented  it from doing  so. And
while the invoice  from Mr As plumber does reference pressure it doesnt identify that as
being the cause of the leak.
However, the annual  service didnt just cover the boiler but the other  elements  of the central
heating system including the radiators.  And in this case the radiator developed a significant
leak shortly after its annual service  should  have been carried out. I accept a leak can occur
suddenly. But I think its unlikely a correctly inspected  radiator  would develop  such  a
significant issue without  there having  been any sign of a problem to a professional engineer
a few hours previously. What seems  more likely  is that a proper inspection of this radiator
wasnt carried out as part of the annual  service. I think its significant that in one of its
responses to us British  Gas accepted  its engineer might have missed that the radiator was
leaking at the time of the service.
And if that had been identified (as it should  have been)  I think British Gas should then have
carried out repairs to the radiator in line with the terms of the policy. Or if that wasnt  possible
it should have  taken steps to isolate that radiator  from the rest of the central  heating  system.
And if that had been done I think its likely the subsequent leak and damage to the kitchen
floor at Mr As property would have  been  prevented. So I agree with our investigator  that
British Gas needs to accept responsibility  for putting this right.
In relation to the problems that arose  when British  Gas attended  to fix the leak under the
floor both parties seem to be in agreement that a payment of £275  does enough  to put
things right here. I agree thats  fair in the circumstances.
Mr A has provided two quotes for putting  right the damage to the floor. And British  Gas
hasnt suggested  this is work it would be prepared to undertake itself. So I think its
reasonable it pay him the amount set out in the lower of those quotes.  I think it should refund
him the cost he paid his plumber to have  the leak fixed (which is £85). And it will also need
to pay him £275  if it hasnt  already  done  so.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr A didnt respond. British Gas did provide some further comments.  It said it was 
disappointed with the outcome and in summary said:  
A drop in pressure  isnt always an indication of a leak and the engineer  followed  the 
correct procedure by re-pressurising the boiler.  It didnt  think  there was evidence  to show  
the engineer had caused the leak and said they hadnt noticed any leaks when carrying 
out the service.  
It didnt think that returning  the pressure to its normal level could have caused the extent 
of damage to Mr As property. And it thought the offer it had previously made was fair. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
Ref: DRN65378823my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision I accept that re-pressurising a boiler is a standard part of 
an annual service. And in this case I dont think the boiler was re-pressurised beyond  a safe 
level because its unlikely  the central  heating  would have operated at all if that had been 
done. 
What I thought more  likely was that a proper inspection of the radiator (which  subsequently 
leaked) wasnt carried  out as part of the annual service. British Gas has now said its 
engineer didnt notice a leak at the time but hasnt  provided any further evidence in support  
of that. In addition  that comment doesnt  match with a previous response in which it 
accepted its engineer might have missed the radiator was leaking. It remains  my view that a 
correctly inspected radiator is unlikely to have developed such  a significant leak within  a few 
hours of the inspection  taking place. And that makes me think a proper inspection wasnt 
carried out as part of the annual service. 
I continue to feel that if the problem with the radiator had been identified (as it should  have 
been) British Gas should then have taken  steps  to address that which  would have prevented 
the subsequent leak and damage to the kitchen. So I do feel that British Gas is responsible  
for putting this right. 
Mr A has provided two quotes for putting  right the damage to the floor. And British  Gas
hasnt suggested  this is work it would be prepared to undertake itself. So I think its
reasonable it pay him the amount set out in the lower of those quotes.  I also think it should 
refund him the cost he paid his plumber to have the leak fixed  (which is £85). And it will also 
need to pay him £275 (in relation to the problems that arose  with the leak under the floor) if it 
hasnt already done so.
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited will need to put things 
right by doing what Ive said in this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6537882