K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Markets UK Ltd unfairly  closed  a contract for differences (CFD)  
trade hed placed.  
background
Mr C placed a sell stop order  for 100 contracts  of a Brent crude oil CFD at a price  of 76.18 
(later amended to 76.10). Simply put, this meant  if the price of Brent fell to his selected level 
Admiral would open a short trade for him.
The Brent price  did fall to Mr Cs entry level, and a short  trade was opened. But due to a 
system error, Admiral  immediately closed Mr Cs trade, crystallising a loss of about £400 (the 
result of selling  at the bid price and buying  at the offer price,  losing the amount of Admirals 
spread).
Mr C noticed what had happened shortly afterwards. He placed another short  trade (for 1 
contract) at 74.28  and rang Admiral to let them know thered been a problem. Mr C closed 
his new trade at 74.18. Over the next few days Mr C continued to talk to Admiral  about the 
issue hed experienced, and place  further Brent  trades. He sold 10 contracts  at 74.80, 
repurchasing at 74.18. He then sold 100 contracts at 74.00, buying  them  back at 73.98. And 
then sold another  100 contracts at 72.90, buying  back at 72.79.
Mr C complained to Admiral about what had happened. He asked  them to explain why his 
sell order had immediately stopped out. And he asked it to pay him compensation for the 
losses he felt hed incurred. He said Admiral should  pay the equivalent as if his original trade 
had remained open and either  closed  at the best price available  that day when  he opened 
his next trade, or at the best price  over the time hed been  corresponding with Admiral about 
the issues  72.79. So he said he should be paid between $17,000 and $33,000 for the 
gains hed have  made but for Admirals  error.
Admiral said Mr C had an opportunity to mitigate  his losses by reopening the trade  in 100 
contracts rather than 1 contract as he did. And in any event they said their terms made  it 
clear they wouldnt  be liable for indirect  losses such as those Mr C was claiming  for. So they 
said they wouldnt pay him anything more than the £400 loss Mr C crystallised  when his 
trade closed  out.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She too thought Mr C could have mitigated 
his losses and so didnt think it would be fair to tell Admiral to pay him for the profits he felt 
hed missed out on. But she thought being  deprived of the opportunity to manage the 
position as he wished initially would have been  stressful and upsetting, so asked Admiral to 
pay Mr C £100 to say sorry. 
Admiral agreed,  but Mr C remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He 
maintained that the profits  hed lost out on were clear, and at a minimum he should be given 
the amount hed have made  by the time he spotted  the error later the same  day. The market 
had already fallen by nearly 200 points  by then and he said hed have been able to close his 
trade for $17,000  profit.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter,  in which I said I thought  Admiral  should pay Mr 
C more compensation  in order  to put things  right.  I said:
Ref: DRN63375372It doesnt seem to be in dispute that an internal error at Admiral resulted in Mr Cs sell 
order being closed  as soon as it opened, when it shouldnt have been.  While Admiral 
hasnt been able to explain the error,  it refunded Mr C the loss he crystallised at the 
time. What remains in dispute  is whether  this fairly  compensates Mr C for the impact  of 
Admirals system error.
Like our investigator,  I think Mr C had an opportunity to reasonably  mitigate his losses 
once he discovered  his trade had been closed. So I dont think  it would be fair for 
Admiral to compensate  him for what happened  after that.
He logged into his account and placed a new trade about two hours after his original 
trade was closed. He had sufficient margin available to have reopened the position 
and would have  been able to take any trading decision he wanted to at that point, 
depending on what he thought the market would do. I cant  fairly say that Admirals 
error deprived him the opportunity to trade in Brent as he wished from that point on  
so I dont think they should pay him for his perceived  losses after that evening.
But that leaves  the matter  of what happened  between his trade opening (and 
immediately closing)  and his discovery  of that a couple of hours  later. Mr C had placed  
an order to open  a short trade  if Brent reached a certain price.  Hed accepted the risk 
of this trade  opening  and then the market moving either for him or against him. From  
what Ive seen Mr C didnt  login  to his account until he placed the 1 contract  trade later 
that evening  so as far as he knew he was exposed to market  risk during that time.
Admiral have relied on their terms which say they wont be responsible for indirect 
losses. But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to rely on that term if an 
acknowledged error has resulted in Mr C losing out on the ability to make a profit  or 
avoid a loss. 
Admiral have also said any perceived losses cant be quantified  because  Mr C hadnt  
set a specific take profit price. So they dont know where he would have closed  the 
trade had it remained  open. While I agree that establishing what would have happened 
with precision is challenging, I dont think that means it is fair for Admiral  to simply 
make it as if Mr Cs trade had never been placed. This unfairly denies him the 
opportunity to have  profited from taking a risk in the market, which is at the heart of 
CFD trading.
So Ive thought carefully about what fair compensation looks like here, taking  account  
of Mr Cs testimony, the terms of his agreement with Admiral, and the wider 
circumstances in the market.
Ultimately Mr C had made a prescient bet on Brents price movement. Once it hit his 
entry price, the market fell substantially and consistently that day. It seems  inarguable 
that had his position remained  open  Mr C would have made some sort of profit  on his 
trade.
He would like to be compensated  as if hed left his trade open until he logged  on and 
placed the new trade later that day. By this point Brent had fallen nearly 200 points,  
meaning Mr C would have  been around $17,000 in profit. But I dont think  thats the fair 
amount of compensation either. I say this because  running a trade that long isnt 
consistent with Mr Cs other activity.
Ref: DRN63375373Ive looked at the subsequent trades Mr C placed  in Brent over the coming  days  as 
the market continues to fall and move in the direction he had correctly anticipated. 
Over that time the market  fell about 150 points. But Mr Cs trades  took profit of 10, 62, 
2, and 11 points  respectively.  So while I dont  know exactly what hed have done had 
his position remained  open, on balance I think its unlikely Mr C would have held it for 
nearly 200 points without taking a profit.
I accept that his decisions would be dependent on the particular market dynamics at a 
given time.  And its impossible to say precisely what he would have done. But my aim 
is to put him as close as possible to the position hed have been in had Admiral  not 
made an error, and his original sell trade  remained open.
Currently, my intention  is to take the average of the amount of profit Mr C took on each 
of his other Brent  trades  over that period  that is to say 21 points. Im not saying that 
is how much  profit  Mr C would have taken,  but I think its reasonable compensation in 
light of the fact the market moved consistently in his favour  but the particular amount of 
profit hed have  crystallised is unknowable.
Im also satisfied that having his trade  closed  unfairly at a time when hed placed a 
large trade in a market that moved as hed hoped would  have  been  upsetting  for Mr C. 
So I think Admiral should pay him a further  £250  in light of that.
Admiral accepted my provisional findings.  But Mr C didnt think  that my proposed remedy 
adequately compensated  him for the profits  hed missed out on due to Admirals error. In 
summary, he said:
I gave too much  weight to his later actions rather than the actions hed have taken  if 
his trade  had remained open.
His trading at any given time would depend  on various factors and how he traded 
during different market conditions later on isnt relevant.
The single contract trade he placed,  after discovering his initial  position  had closed, 
was intended  to show the price  hed have closed out for a profit. So thats the price 
that should be used when  calculating  compensation.
His later trades were placed principally to show the error that had previously taken 
place and to ensure  he was able to open  and close trades as he saw fit. They 
shouldnt be seen  as an indication  of his trading strategy or how much  profit  hed take 
from a successful trade.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I know  this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr C, Ive not been  persuaded  to depart from my provisional 
conclusions. And so I make the same findings here,  and make them final.
Mr C disputes my assessment of fair compensation in light of him being deprived the 
opportunity to profit from a trade Admiral closed erroneously. He considers hed have  made 
much more than the 21 points I provisionally said Admiral should pay him.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C said in response to my provisional  decision. Its 
possible he would have  made a greater profit than 21 points, but its also possible hed have 
Ref: DRN63375374made less. The crux of the issue is that it is impossible to say with certainty what Mr C would 
have done differently, especially without  the benefit of hindsight.
I therefore need to decide  what, on balance, puts Mr C as close as possible to the position 
hed have been in had he kept his trade open. And, in my view, the most persuasive 
evidence of what hed have done  is the action he took around the same  time,  when trading 
in the same product.
I accept traders will adapt to market  circumstances  and Im not saying that taking a 21 
point profit is exactly what Mr C would have done. But in all the circumstances I remain  
satisfied that my proposed remedy fairly compensates him for being deprived of the 
opportunity to manage his position.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given here and in my provisional decision I uphold  this complaint. 
Admiral Markets UK Ltd must pay Mr C:
An amount  equivalent  to the net profit  hed have made on a Brent CFD that he closed 
out 21 points in his favour.
£250 for the distress and inconvenience  he has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6337537