K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited trading as Very,  declined her 
request for credit limit increases on her account.  Shes also unhappy with the customer  
service she received.
background
Miss A applied for a credit limit increase on her Very account  in December 2017 and 
June 2018. On both occasions  her requests were declined. Miss A was unhappy with the 
generic response  she received as to the reasons her applications were declined. She says 
her credit rating is good  and she has never missed any payments.
Miss A says Very has added interest  to her account  in small amounts even though  she has 
bought goods on interest  free payment terms. And she feels  the business has provided poor 
customer service.  In particular, she says a letter Very sent to her was not clearly addressed.
Very didnt uphold  Miss As complaint  as it said it had acted  in line with its terms and 
conditions. Very said it reviews accounts when an application is made and depending on the 
credit status, the limit can be reduced, revoked or increased at its discretion. In this case,  it 
took the decision not to increase Miss As credit limit based on its checks.
Very says Miss A was not charged interest on her account for the period in question. It said 
on statement 59 she was advised that if she only made the minimum repayment  she would 
be charged 19p on her next statement  (statement  60). It went on to say that as she made 
the full payment no interest was charged on this statement. 
Unhappy with Verys  response,  Miss A referred  her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked at Miss As complaint.  He concluded that Very had acted  in 
line with its terms and conditions when declining Miss As application  for a credit increase. 
He also considered that Miss A hadnt  shown that any detriment had been  caused by the 
address being  partially shown on the envelope when Very wrote  to her. So he didnt  uphold  
Miss As complaint.
Miss A disagreed with the investigators view. So the matter has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. Before I begin,  I know Miss A has raised  a number of points 
during her contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point she has raised, 
Ive considered everything Miss A has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact 
on the outcome  of the case.
I see Miss A applied for an increase in her credit  limit in 2017 and 2018 but both applications 
were declined. I see Very have said this is in line with its terms and conditions. I 
acknowledge that Miss A is disappointed by this decision. But Very has its own criteria for 
deciding whether it will accept an application  or not. In short,  Miss A didnt meet Verys 
Ref: DRN66027662lending criteria for an increased credit limit. And I dont think Very are under  any obligation to 
accept her application.
I know Miss A wants to know how Very arrived at its decision in more detail. But each  
organisation will have  its own process for lending and this information is commercially 
sensitive. Broadly, however, the lending decision is affected by a number of different factors  
such as payment history  with other  organisations and other relevant information held by 
credit reference agencies. But other than disclosing in general terms the reasons for 
declining her application, Im satisfied that Very doesnt need to do any more  than this.
Miss A says Very charged her 19p interest when she purchased goods on a buy now pay 
later basis.  But I see she was not, in fact, charged  this amount. In statement 59, Very was 
letting her know the estimated interest if she made  a minimum payment. But as she paid the 
full balance, she was not charged  any interest on her next statement. So I cant conclude 
Very has done  anything wrong  in this regard.
I know Miss A is unhappy with the customer service  shes  received overall from Very. In 
particular, shes unhappy with delays in replying  to her complaint. And when Very did 
respond, some part of her name and address wasnt showing on the envelope.  Miss A says 
this meant  the post office had to write part of her address on the envelope and that when it 
arrived at her address,  a relative opened it. I acknowledge Miss A is upset about this. But its 
not clear whether Very was at fault for the name and address  partially  showing as this 
mayve happened  during  transit.  Even if the letter  wasnt put in the envelope  correctly,  I 
cannot see that any detriment was caused  by her relative opening the letter. Im pleased 
Miss A has now received a response  to her concerns  from Very and that her letter  did arrive 
safely. So I wont be asking Very to do anything further.
Whilst I appreciate Miss A will be disappointed  with this outcome, for the reasons Ive 
outlined above,  Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6602766