K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Littlewoods  has 
been overcharging her for items  she bought from it.
background
Miss L says found out she had been paying  for items that had already  been paid off some 
time ago. She says a Littlewoods advisor  agreed that she had overpaid and realised a 
mistake had been made. Miss L says the mistake has impacted her credit file.
Littlewoods doesnt  accept making  a mistake and says the current balance  Miss L owes it is 
correct. It says Miss L bought items from it on its buy now pay later scheme but Miss L didnt 
pay the balance  by the correct date.
Miss L brought  her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He 
thought Miss L had missed payments and hadnt  paid the balances in time to avoid interest. 
He also listened  to the calls between the parties  and didnt think Miss L had been told she 
had overpaid on the items. The investigator  gave  Miss L a list of the available  balances  and 
items and didnt think there was any evidence to show those lists were  wrong.
Miss L doesnt accept  that view and says she has her bank statements which  will confirm 
she has overpaid on some of the items  she bought. She would like her credit file updated 
and an investigation  into the overpayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  Miss L will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive listened to the calls between the parties  and I dont  think Miss L was told that she had 
been paying for items that had been paid off some time ago. I think it was Miss L that said 
that some  of the items  the advisor mentioned as having balances, had been  paid off. Im 
satisfied that the advisor repeated back to Miss L what she was saying and wasnt  agreeing 
that a mistake had been made.  I also dont  think it was the advisor that raised  the possibility 
that some  items had been paid for in full but Miss L, when told what  the items were.
I can see that the investigator  has given Miss L a list of the outstanding balances and what 
items they relate  to. I appreciate Miss L says some of the items have been paid off in full. 
But having  looked through Littlewoods records I dont think  thats the case. I can see that 
items have  been  bought using a buy now pay later scheme. But I dont think  some of the 
items were paid off within the time period  which led to interest  being  charged.  I can also see 
that there  were missed payments. So overall  I dont think Littlewoods has made  a mistake or 
has been charging Miss L for items shes already paid off.
I appreciate Miss L says she has bank statements that show  she has made all of the 
payments. Ive not seen those statements but I dont doubt that Miss L has made a number 
of payments to Littlewoods over many years. But for the reasons Ive explained Ive not seen 
any evidence that suggests Littlewoods has made a mistake here.
Ref: DRN61406472Overall as I dont think Littlewoods has made a mistake I cant fairly order it to amend Miss 
Ls credit file or do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6140647