K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls  Marketing Limited (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to invest his pension in an 
unsuitable investment.
background
Mr M has said that he was cold-called  in 2016 and offered a pension  review. He was in his 
early fifties and had two personal pensions. Mr M has said he was told that he could  transfer 
them to one plan and make investments with better returns than his existing plans.
The two plans were  subsequently transferred and around £43,000 was transferred to a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  in March  2016. About £42,000 was then invested through  
a discretionary fund manager into debentures issued by a single company.
Mr M, through his representative, complained to Alexander David in December 2018.  I 
understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred  the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint. He asked Alexander  David  for its files 
and to provide  any other evidence it wanted us to take into account. Despite reminders, he 
received no response. 
The investigator therefore assessed  the complaint on the evidence  that had been  presented,  
and in light of what he understood had happened  given what hed seen on other cases.  He 
had investigated  other complaints against  the same firm that had been referred to us where  
the nature  of the complaints were very similar and which were about the same investment.
The investigator said that he understood St Pauls  Marketing had sent Mr M promotional  
material relating to debentures issued by this single company. He also said that he 
understood St Pauls  Marketing sent,  or arranged to be sent, a summary report to Mr M 
detailing the historic performance  of his existing plan and discussed it with him.
The investigator noted that when  Mr M applied for the SIPP and the DFM  account he also 
signed a document drawn up by the SIPP provider indemnifying  it against  any liability arising 
from the investment.  Among other  things, the indemnity said that he had read the 
information prospectus provided by the company issuing  the debentures and was fully 
aware that the investment  was high risk or speculative, and illiquid. He also acknowledged  
that he had chosen not to seek advice. 
The investigator noted that when  the representative complained on Mr Ms behalf it had said 
that the advice  hed been given was unsuitable;  Mr M had a low tolerance  for risk and low 
capacity for loss. He noted that Mr M had said that St Pauls  Marketing had recommended 
the investment.  The investigator said he understood Mr M had been given a summary  report  
showing the details  of his existing pensions.  He thought it was likely a comparison of the 
possible returns from both schemes would have been made and he thought it was difficult to 
envisage a comparison being made  without  a discussion of the merits of making  the 
proposed investment.
Ref: DRN66068182The investigator said although Mr M had signed  an indemnity saying he hadnt sought 
advice, he thought it unlikely this was a genuine execution only transaction  given the nature 
of St Pauls Marketings  involvement and Mr Ms lack of experience. 
The investigator said that the promotional  material he had seen about the investment said 
An investment in the Company is only suitable  for investors capable  of evaluating the risks 
and merits of such investment and who have sufficient resources to bear any loss which  may 
result from the investment. He said Mr M had little investment experience.
He noted that Mr M was in his early 50s, these were  his only pensions  and hed said he 
wanted a low risk investment. His view was that investing most of the pension  in illiquid 
bonds from a single issuer was clearly unsuitable.   
He also thought that even  if St Pauls Marketing hadnt recommended the investment it 
should have assessed its appropriateness  in accordance with the Conduct of Business  
Rules (COBS) 10, given  the investment was a non-readily realisable security.  The rules  said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges  or deals  in relation to a non-readily  realisable
security, derivative  or a warrant  with or for a retail  client and the firm is aware, or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the application  or order is in response to a direct  offer financial
promotion.
COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing  to assess Mr Ms knowledge and experience  in
the investment  field relevant to the specific type of product or service  offered or demanded 
so as to enable the firm to assess  whether  the service or product envisaged is appropriate. 
The investigator said Mr M had no significant  investment  knowledge and no experience  of 
making investments  of this nature. The investigator  thought the investment wasnt  
appropriate. And he didnt think Mr M would  have invested but for the actions  of St Pauls 
Marketing. 
The investigator also thought that St Pauls Marketing had arranged  the investment  for Mr M. 
He said the regulated activity making  arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments had a very broad scope. He thought St Pauls Marketings activities  fell within 
that scope. 
The investigator noted that one of the Regulators strategic objectives was to protect  
consumers, and its rules reflected that objective. The Principles required St Pauls Marketing  
to conduct its business  with integrity, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat 
them fairly, and manage conflicts  of interest  fairly. He thought St Pauls  Marketings 
interactions with Mr M had directly resulted in an inexperienced investor investing most  of his 
pension in illiquid, high risk assets. In the circumstances, he didnt think  St Pauls Marketing 
had acted in accordance with the Principles or in Mr Ms best interests.
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt 
provide a response. The investigator  subsequently wrote to both parties on 16 March  2020 
explaining that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for review and to make a 
final decision.  No  further evidence or arguments were provided.  
Ref: DRN66068183my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt  respond to Mr Ms original  complaint. Neither did it co-operate with 
our investigation; it didnt provide its business  files or respond to the investigators 
assessment of the complaint. Theres  only very limited evidence available  to establish what  
happened at the time of the investment.  
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available including  Mr Ms recollections of 
events. St Pauls hasnt  disputed what Mr M said in his complaint to it, or what  the 
investigator said in his assessment. 
Im also mindful that this is one of a number  of complaints we have received and which I 
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited;  all of a similar nature, involving seemingly 
similar circumstances and the same  investments. 
Clearly I need to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided  in each 
particular case.  But Ive noted that what Mr M has said about St Pauls role is consistent with 
what other complainants have described. So I think what he has said is plausible. And taking 
everything into account, I have found it credible. 
Mr M completed a complaint form for us a copy of which  was sent to Alexander David.  In it 
Mr M had said after receiving the cold call a meeting was arranged  at his home.  And at the 
meeting the adviser told him he could get a better  return from the new investment to his 
existing investment. He said he was a low risk investor with no previous investment 
experience. And he thought the advice to transfer his funds  into a high risk investment was 
unsuitable. 
The documentation  shows Mr M transferred his pensions to the SIPP  and invested  in the 
debenture. In my experience  its unusual for someone of Mr Ms background and experience 
to invest in this type of investment without  prompting. 
I think the transaction was unlikely to have  happened  without  the involvement of St Pauls. 
Im satisfied that it initiated  the investment in the debenture.  It was aware of where the 
investment was going to be made  through the DFM and facilitated it. Mr M has said St Pauls 
advised him to invest; the investigator said he thought it unlikely this was an execution  only 
transaction and he went onto consider  the suitability of the transaction.  The firm hasnt 
disputed this. In all the circumstances, I think its more likely than not that advice was given.
The investigator also said he thought St Pauls  was involved in arranging the transaction and 
that it was required, but failed, to assess its appropriateness in accordance  COBS  10.  He 
set out his reasons for understanding this and went onto say he didnt think  the debentures 
were appropriate  for Mr M. 
Again, St Pauls hasnt  disputed this. I agree with the investigator that its more likely than not 
that St Pauls  arranged the investment. It was the promoter for the debenture,  but Im 
satisfied, on the limited evidence that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in 
arranging the investment  (and advising on it).  The debenture was high risk and speculative 
and clearly wasnt appropriate for Mr M given his background, knowledge and circumstances
Ref: DRN66068184I also agree  with the investigator that St Pauls didnt act in Mr Ms best interests. For the 
reasons given above, I think  it was clear that the debenture wasnt  suitable  or appropriate for 
Mr M and this should have been clear to St Pauls. Im satisfied that if St Pauls had acted in 
Mr Ms best interest,  not advised him to invest in the debenture or if it had told him it wasnt  
appropriate for him he wouldnt  have invested in it. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls  failures  caused Mr M to invest  in a product that he 
would otherwise not have invested into. And Im satisfied its failures caused the losses that 
Mr M has claimed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order Alexander David  Securities 
Limited to calculate  and pay compensation to Mr M on the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close  as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr M would have  invested differently. The investigator recommended  that the full 
transfer value  of the SIPP should  be used for calculation  purposes  albeit I note some of it 
remained in cash.  I think this is reasonable given that its not possible to know precisely what 
he would  have done with the whole of the amount  in his SIPP  had it not been for St Pauls 
actions. Im satisfied that what I have  set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr M's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
Its unclear what the status of the debenture is. My understanding is that its currently not 
possible to encash  it, however that its given a notional value. I note its current notional  value 
is materially higher  than the amount  Mr M invested. Like the investigator said, its possible 
the calculation  might show Mr M hasnt suffered a financial loss.
 what should  Alexander David Securities  Ltd do?
To compensate Mr M fairly Alexander David Securities Ltd should:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Ms pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd 
shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension 
plan it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
Ref: DRN66068185allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
For example if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would have 
been able to take a tax-free  lump  sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied  the matter has 
caused him.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr M a 
tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average  
rate from fixed  
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
this decision8% simple  a 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement if 
settlement isnt 
made within 
28 days of 
Alexander David being 
notified of Mr 
Ms acceptance of 
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the debenture is illiquid (meaning  it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider / administrator. This amount should  be deducted from the compensation  and the 
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the investment its value should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Ref: DRN66068186Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr M provides an undertaking to 
pay it any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing or receipt from the pension 
plan. Alexander David Securities Ltd will need  to meet  any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. 
Fair value
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges incurred within  
the plan on transfer, would  have  been worth at the end date had they grown  in line with the
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Alexander 
David Securities Ltd should use the monthly  average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Those  rates  should  be applied  to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when  it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from
that point on.
SIPP Fees 
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth  of SIPP fees if it 
couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr M hasnt got the opportunity  to 
transfer to another pension if the illiquid  debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David 
Securities Ltd cant buy the investment and it remains illiquid, it should pay Mr M an amount 
equal to five years of SIPP  fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for 
someone who wanted to achieve  a reasonable return  without  risk to his 
capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market  Income total return index) is 
made up of a range of indices with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities 
and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared  to 
take some risk to get a higher  return.
Ref: DRN66068187I consider that Mr Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean  
that Mr M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6606818