K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1997. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Miss C says FICL  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss C says her complaint has always been that she didnt ask for PPI and that FICL ticked  
the box without  asking her about  it and without getting her agreement. But Miss C took out 
her card more than twenty years ago. So I wouldnt expect her memory of the sale to be 
detailed or vivid. With that in mind, what Miss C has said isnt enough on its own to make  me 
think she wasnt asked about  the PPI before the box on her form was ticked to say she 
wanted it. 
Also, next to the tick the form says: Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment and 
Purchase Protection Insurance Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly 
premium until further notice.  So I think it was clear the cover would only be added if it was 
wanted and the box for it was ticked.  Miss C says if FICL had guided her to that section she 
wouldve said no to the cover. But she signed the form to take out her card. So, on the face 
of it, she was aware of and agreed  to the forms contents  and was aware of the cover  that 
had been selected.
So, with all that in mind, based on what I have  I think its likely FICL  made Miss C aware she 
was taking the insurance and she agreed to take it. And, taking into account the wording by 
the box and also what Miss C has said about  this, I think its likely FICL made it clear  that 
Miss C didnt have to take the cover. But I acknowledge this isnt what  Miss C thinks or how 
she recalls the sale.
In reaching this view Ive taken into account all Miss Cs points, including  what shes  said 
about it being clear  FICL only guided her to complete the details marked  with a pencil cross - 
and to sign and date the form where marked. But I dont think  this means  FICL  didnt ask 
Miss C whether she wanted  the cover  before  ticking the box for it. And I dont think the fact 
other sections are blank  means this either.
From what  FICL has said, the policy was cancelled after about six months and in total the 
premiums paid for the policy  amounted  to less than £10. Miss C says she complained when 
she noticed premiums  on her statement  saying she didnt want the PPI and hadnt agreed  
to it. She says premiums  stopped as a result. But I dont think  this means she cant  have 
agreed to the cover  in the shop. Bearing in mind  the form Miss C signed at the time of the 
sale - which I think is the best evidence  we now have available from the time of the sale - I 
think what I have lends  more weight to the conclusion  that Miss C did agree to the cover.  
Ref: DRN60719952Also, cover could be stopped by giving  notice if it was no longer wanted, as indicated by the 
form wording quoted further above.  So I dont think the fact FICL stopped  the cover shows 
that FICL  accepted at that time that there had been  a problem with the sale.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss C, so FICL didnt have to check  the PPI was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure she got - before she agreed to the policy - the information 
she needed to decide if the PPI was right for her. And its possible the information FICL gave 
her wasnt  as full or as clear as it shouldve been.  So Ive considered whether what I have 
suggests that better information at the sale wouldve likely made  a difference to the decision 
Miss C made at that time.
From what  Ive seen of Miss Cs circumstances  at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the cover  like exclusions for existing medical  issues. So I dont 
think better information about  that wouldve made a difference to Miss Cs decision - and she 
couldve claimed on the policy if the circumstances  arose. From what Miss C has told us, its 
likely she wouldve received only statutory benefits  if she were made redundant or was too 
sick to work. And she didnt have savings to help with her payments in those situations. So it 
looks like the cover couldve been useful to her. With all this mind  and taking  everything  into 
account, I dont  think  better information  about the PPI would have changed Miss Cs decision 
to take the cover.
In reaching my conclusions Ive taken into account all Miss Cs points, including  what shes  
said about FICL never contacting her to discuss the policy or what it entailed.  But FICL  didnt  
have to discuss the policy with Miss C after the sale. My assessment assumes that the only 
information FICL gave  Miss C before she agreed to the policy was information given to her in 
the shop when she took the card. And Ive explained above why the information  I have  about  
what went on at that time  which is understandably limited  given  the time that has passed - 
isnt enough to make me think the PPI was most likely mis-sold.  I appreciate my conclusions 
will disappoint Miss C. Im grateful  to her for the further information and clarification shes 
given us in the course  of our investigation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6071995