K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled her 
home insurance claim for an escape of water at her house. In particular she complains about 
RSAs contractors work in relation to the removal of asbestos which she feels  her family was 
un-necessarily exposed  to. 
background 
Mrs W suffered  an escape of water at her home in November 2017.  Damage was caused to 
the bathroom, landing, stairs, hallway and kitchen. RSA accepted  the claim and appointed 
loss adjusters to handle  the claim. When the loss adjuster was first validating the claim he 
thought that Mrs W may have failed to disclose the correct number of previous claims shed 
had when she was asked about them at the point of sale. 
The loss adjuster referred the matter to the underwriter to investigate  who in turn referred it 
to the broker that sold the policy. In the meanwhile  Mrs W and her family were placed  into 
AA for a couple  of weeks in January 2018 whilst the specialist  asbestos contractors attended  
her property to strip out and safely remove the asbestos thatd been  identified in her ceilings 
and walls. 
RSA wouldnt authorise an extension of the AA because, by the time the authorised  AA 
came to an end, it was still waiting for a decision from the broker about whether  there  had 
been a non-disclosure at the point of sale (and whether the claim would need to be 
proportionately reduced if there was).  Fearing  she and Mr W were facing having to fund 
extensive repair cost themselves,  the family reluctantly returned  home. They didnt think they 
could afford  to fund both AA and the repair costs themselves. 
On returning home  Mrs W discovered that RSAs contractor had failed to remove all the 
identified asbestos  from the property. Mr and Mrs W found that the contractors had left their 
house in a filthy condition  with asbestos  debris in multiple rooms.  Mrs W instructed her own 
expert who identified  the presence of asbestos containing material (ACM).  
Mrs W complained  to RSA who instructed the contractor to return  to her home to safely 
remove the asbestos left behind.  This took place 8 days after the family returned  home.  
Ultimately, it was discovered there had been no non-disclosure when the policy  was sold so 
the claim resumed. There were then issues with delays in getting  repairs  done  through  
February 2018. 
After the claim  bar a few snagging  issues  was concluded in June 2018, Mrs W 
complained to RSA about the delays  in the claim and the poor service shed received. RSA 
looked into her concerns  and issued its final response in August 2018 upholding her 
complaint. It admitted  its service had fallen  below its usual acceptable standard.  It said 
feedback had been given  to the managers of those involved. RSA apologised and said it 
was paying Mrs W compensation of £1,000  for the distress caused and the delays 
experienced. 
Unhappy with the outcome of RSAs investigation, Mrs W complained to this service. She 
said she felt the compensation shed received didnt go far enough  given what the family had 
experienced. Mrs W said that; Mr W had suffered a loss of earnings as a result of having  
time off work to deal with the claim;  they had both lost holiday entitlement because they had 
Ref: DRN65751882to take annual leave to meet or let in loss adjusters/workmen/inspectors etc.; the family  had 
suffered the distress  of having their home  contaminated with asbestos and of being exposed 
to it; that her house had been left in an unacceptable state and that they suffered  stress as a 
result of it seeming the claim may be proportionately  reduced. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ws complaint and recommended that it was upheld.  He 
agreed with RSA that compensation  should be paid but disagreed that itd paid enough  in all 
the circumstances. He recommended that RSA pay Mrs W further compensation of £200. 
Mrs W accepted our investigators recommendation but RSA didnt.  It said felt the 
compensation it paid of £1,000 was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. It asked for 
the complaint  to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has commendably  accepted that there  were  significant shortcomings in the way it 
handled Mrs Ws claim. It has apologised for them and paid Mrs W compensation of £1,000.  
So, the only issue for me to decide  is whether the amount RSA has paid is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
Whist I welcome RSAs acceptance that its claim handling fell short  of acceptable  standards  
Im unable to agree   taking all the circumstances  into account  that the amount of 
compensation paid fairly reflects the amount of trouble and upset caused to Mrs W and her 
family. I dont intend to repeat what happened  in any greater detail than Ive set out above, 
but I would  like to reassure both parties  that Ive read the file in full. 
In particular, I think that arriving home with young  children to find an already damaged  house  
covered in asbestos debris and having  no choice but to remain  there  (at a point when they 
didnt know how toxic the asbestos  was) must have been very stressful  for Mrs W and her 
husband. And they had to remain there for 8 more days before it was cleared. 
Ive thought about RSAs  point that it was waiting for a decision from the broker  about  the 
potential non-disclosure  before resuming  with the claim. And I note RSA says it couldve 
done more itself about this situation. I would have  to agree. If itd done  so then then the 
claim wouldnt have been halted and Mrs W and her family couldve remained in AA until 
their home was properly  restored. This wouldve avoided all the distress and inconvenience 
they were caused.  And it remains unclear to me from reading the file why working out 
precisely how many claims within a certain time period  Mrs W had had was so very difficult 
to establish. And why that took two months, when such information is readily available  on 
databases, is also unclear. 
So I think all the trouble and upset flowed  from the loss adjusters decision to refer the non-
disclosure issue to the underwriter and the underwriters decision to refer it to the broker. 
When all that was needed  it seems  to me  was an administrative check  of the relevant 
claims databases. What followed was, I think, wholly  avoidable. 
I take RSAs point that it was later shown that the asbestos in the house was a type that 
posed minimal risk but at the point Mrs W moved back home she didnt know that. So her 
distress was genuine and significant.  
Ref: DRN65751883Although Mr W originally  claimed for his loss of earnings, I can see that both he and Mrs W 
accept that as hes not a policyholder any such  losses cant be considered.  In any event, this 
service doesnt routinely  make awards  for lost earnings. 
Taking everything into account,  I think that further  compensation of £200 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I also think its in line with awards this service  has 
previously made in similar cases.  This will bring the total amount of compensation paid to 
Mrs W to £1,200. I can see that RSA issued  a cheque for £1,000 in August 2018  so it only 
now need pay the additional £200 that Im awarding here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. For the reasons given above, I require Royal  
& Sun Alliance Plc to pay Mrs W (as policyholder) further compensation of £200 for the 
trouble and upset  caused by its handling  of her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6575188