K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that 2gether Insurance Limited  failed  to refund his premium  after he 
cancelled his policy within the permitted period.
background
Mr F took out a roadside assistance policy through  2gether in January 2019.
A few days  later, having  received a better offer, Mr F contacted 2gether via the contact form 
on their website to cancel his policy.
Mr F understood that he could cancel the policy within 14 days  of inception and get his 
premium of £19 refunded,  less a £10 administration  charge. 
Despite contacting 2gether at least a further five times over the next few weeks, Mr F got no 
response and his premium wasnt refunded.
Because hed had no response from 2gether, Mr F contacted  our service to complain.  
Our investigator contacted 2gether but was told theyd received no direct complaint from 
Mr F.
We pointed out that Mr F had contacted  2gether several times to ask for his premium  back 
and to complain about  their service. 
In the meantime, 2gether refunded Mr Fs premium less a £5 administration  charge.  They  
also offered to refund the final £5 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr F remained unhappy with that outcome and asked us to continue our investigation.  Our 
investigator looked into it and thought 2gether hadnt provided a fair or reasonable service  to 
Mr F. 
She thought,  in addition to refunding Mr Fs premium, 2gether should  pay him £50 in 
compensation for his trouble and upset. 
2gether disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  The said Mr F had 
contacted them using a method (their website contact form)  not advertised in the paperwork 
as a means to ask for a refund. And they said £50 wasnt proportionate given the £19 
premium Mr F had originally paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr F was entitled to cancel the policy when he did and have his 
premium refunded.
2gether seem to have charged  a £5 administration fee rather than the £10 set out in their 
policy documents, but that was their choice.
Ref: DRN69463942The section of the policy document which deals with cancellations has no indication  of what  
address, email address or telephone  number  to use to cancel a policy.
So its unfair, unreasonable and odd for 2gether to say that Mr F contacted them  via a 
means not specified in the policy documents. There is no means of contacting them  to 
cancel a policy specified in the documents.
2gether havent said the website contact  form Mr F used wasnt working   and it would  be 
their problem if it wasnt. 
Im assuming someone at the business  was responsible  for monitoring in-coming messages 
from the website  form. If not, there should  have  been. And if there was, they could and 
should have forwarded Mr Fs request to the relevant individual, team  or department.
In short,  their handling of Mr Fs cancellation  request - and his subsequent chasers and 
complaints  appears to have been a bit of a shambles.
2gether did provide a refund  approximately three months after Mr F requested  it. I dont 
think its unreasonable to ask them  to pay Mr F a further £50 in compensation for his trouble  
and upset.
He was inconvenienced by having to chase 2gether for a response  five times after his 
original contact. 
He still got no response,  which would have been  extremely frustrating. And he presumably 
doubted whether  he was likely to get his premium  back, which would have been annoying 
and upsetting.
I have to take into account  the fact that the amount of stress and worry Mr F experienced 
would have been greater if the sum involved had been much greater. But if it had been, Id 
be suggesting much  more than £50 in compensation. 
In summary,  as I say, £50 is reasonable given the frustration, annoyance and upset Mr F 
experienced as a result of 2gethers  failure  to provide him with a reasonable service.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint.
2gether Insurance Limited  have repaid Mr Fs premium. They should also pay him £50 in 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6946394