K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that shes been  unable to settle a debt with Barclays  Bank UK PLC.
background
Ms A says shes been  unable to make  contact with Barclays to settle a credit  card debt and 
complains that Barclays hasnt updated her address on its systems. She says shes made a 
number of calls to Barclays  about  this and would  like any interest frozen and any charges 
waived.
Barclays says Ms A doesnt have an open credit  card account  but does have an account 
with an unauthorised overdraft. It says it has been writing to her at the correct address  and 
that any charges  were  correctly applied in line with the account  terms and conditions. 
Barclays says the account  is with its collection  department and so interest and charges are 
not being applied to the account.
Ms A brought her complaint to us and now accepts that Barclays  has been writing to her at 
the correct address but says Barclays has been  writing to her about a credit  card.  She also 
accepts her complaint  is about her bank account and not a credit card account.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Barclays hadnt made a mistake  or 
acted unfairly. The investigator thought the letters  Barclays sent Miss A were about her 
current account and that she had raised  the issue  of a credit  card complaint and had 
complained to a Barclays credit card department. The investigator thought Barclays  had 
been writing to Ms A at the correct address and didnt think  there  was a record of her calling 
Barclays on its systems.
Ms A doesnt accept  that view and has provided  a screen shot from her telephone which  
confirms she called  Barclays  but she accepts that was after she brought  her complaint to us. 
Ms A also says the investigator provided her with an incorrect telephone number for 
Barclays which she says had caused a delay in trying to sort matters out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Ms A will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I can see that Ms A now accepts that her complaint  is about  her current account  and her 
inability to contact  Barclays  about it rather than about a credit card account or about her 
address not being updated. I make  that clear  because  Ms A did complain to Barclays  about 
those issues and also to us. And I think there  may be some confusion  caused by that and I 
think that Ms A contacted  Barclays  credit  card department about her complaint which I think  
explains why it said it could not find any trace of her debt.
I also make  clear that Im satisfied that all of the letters Barclays sent to Ms A about this 
matter were correctly addressed and I can see that Ms A now accepts that was the case.
The main  part of Ms As complaint is that shes not been able to discuss  her debt with 
Barclays. I think that Barclays  has carried out all reasonable searches using Ms As 
telephone number and account details to trace any calls but without success. And Ive not 
Ref: DRN68910342seen any evidence from Ms As telephone provider about any such  calls to Barclays. I also 
think that if Ms A had spoken  to Barclays  about  her account that its likely an electronic  
footprint of Barclays accessing her account would  have  been retained.  So I think  on balance 
that Barclays hasnt  made  a mistake or acted unfairly here and I cant  fairly  conclude that its 
refused to speak to Ms A about her account  or not been able to trace her current  account.  I 
accept that there was likely to have been  some  confusion if Ms A told Barclays  about a credit 
card account  which I also think she told us about.
I also think that Barclays has sent numerous letters to Ms A which  I think she received as 
shes given us some of them. Im satisfied  those letters make clear  that Ms A had exceeded 
her overdraft limit and needed  to pay money  into her account. I find that Barclays  froze any 
interest on the account in any event so I dont  think Ms A has been caused  any financial loss 
as a result  of not being able to speak to Barclays about the debt. I think it likely that charges 
would have been applied as Ms A was overdrawn  and didnt make a required payment into 
her account  to avoid  those charges.  
Overall for the reasons  Ive explained  I dont think Barclays  has made a mistake here. I 
appreciate that Ms A was given an incorrect telephone number to contact Barclays on after 
she had brought  her complaint to us. But I also think that she had been given a correct  
number for Barclays and could have contacted it by other means such  as letter  or by 
sending an online message.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6891034