K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
AXA has told us Mrs P paid less than £4 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy.
The PPI started in 2000 and was cover for a store card.  When  she first came  to us, Mrs P 
told us she bought the PPI at that time after filling in a leaflet she was given. AXA has told us 
Mrs Ps card started  more  than two years before the PPI and that it sold the PPI by phone.  
Ive not seen anything that makes me think the card didnt start when AXA says. With this in 
mind, I think  it likely the PPI was sold to Mrs P by phone  as, from what  Ive seen, where 
PPI was sold for an existing account like this it was usually sold by phone.
At the time of the PPI sale, Mrs P was employed  as a driver and had been there five years. 
She has told us she was entitled to full sick pay and redundancy  pay. Taking into account  all 
she has told us about her role, benefits and length of service, I think it likely  Mrs Ps work  
sick pay was worth less than 12 months  full pay and her redundancy entitlement was also 
likely worth less than 12 months pay. Mrs P, from what she told us when she first came to 
us, didnt at the time of sale have any other means, like savings, with which  to pay her card if 
she couldnt work.
When she brought her complaint to us, the only health issue  Mrs P told us shed suffered 
before the sale was a condition suffered in childhood and which  she didnt say had ever kept 
her off work.  Mrs P has also told us she was pregnant at the time of the sale.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it 
offered to pay 15% of Mrs Ps card balance. It cost at the time £1 per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium still had to be paid during a successful  claim and 
attracted interest. The life cover,  subject to its terms, would clear  the balance  on death.
The policy also provided purchase protection and price protection . Mrs P hasnt complained  
about this element of the insurance policy so I will not consider  it further  in this decision. 
 
Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ps representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs P wouldnt have taken the 
Ref: DRN68749432policy and the complaint  should be upheld. Mrs Ps representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs P about the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs P and the impact they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
Ref: DRN68749433There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So I am satisfied its right I should take these codes  into account when deciding  what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Ps case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note under the 
Insurance Ombudsmans terms  of reference  the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
Ref: DRN68749434circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs P sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs P suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs P know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs P has said she had no interest in PPI 
and it was just included as part of the package with her card. But Mrs Ps card started some 
years before the PPI was sold - so it wasnt included as part of the package with her card 
when she took it. As her card had been running  for some time without the PPI, its likely she 
knew she didnt have  to have PPI to have  the card running  and likely she wouldve known 
the PPI was something separate. So, with all this in mind, based  on what I have  I think it 
likely Mrs P knew the PPI was optional. But given the time that has passed since the sale,  it 
wouldnt be surprising if Mrs P doesnt  recall all the details of the sales  phone  call now.
AXA hasnt been  able to provide a recording of the call. This isnt surprising given the time 
that passed between the sale and Mrs Ps complaint.  AXA hasnt any scripts  from the time of 
this sale either. Scripts for later sales suggest customers  were offered the PPI and asked 
whether they wanted it before it was added.
Taking everything into account,  having thought carefully about  all Mrs P has said about how 
the PPI was added to her card, I think its more likely Mrs P knew  the policy was optional  and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure  but its understandable  if she doesnt recall  it now.  
Ref: DRN68749435did AXA provide advice?
Both AXA and Mrs P have  agreed advice wasnt given during this sale. With this in mind, I 
dont think AXA provided advice. This means AXA didnt have to check if the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs P. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take the policy, including  drawing 
to her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Ive seen policy terms and conditions which I accept - on a balance  of probabilities - applied  
to policies like Mrs Ps. But, with what Ive said above about the phone call in mind, what  I 
have isnt enough to persuade me AXA gave Mrs P the information she fairly and reasonably 
needed to make an informed decision about whether or not to take the policy.
This sale took place  over the phone. I dont know what AXA told Mrs P about the PPI, but I 
think it unlikely she wouldve agreed to take it without having at least a broad understanding  
of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think 
its unlikely Mrs P would  have thought it was free. 
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ps attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs P, including the need to maintain premiums  during 
a claim or that payments  would attract  interest.  In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew 
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ps. 
I have considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ps representative considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Ref: DRN68749436Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs P has suggested. And, taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs P? To what extent did she suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs P. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had AXA done things  properly. 
Mrs P says she would  not have  taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs P had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs P chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude 
she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mrs P thought she was getting is not 
exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs P has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs P ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept AXA didnt  make clear the on-going  cost information. So, while Mrs P didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mrs P knew  or should have known 
about, or for which  she had been advised or treated by a medical practitioner in the 12 
months before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs P wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs P be stopped from doing 
her own or any similar job, and also be stopped from doing  any paid work her 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified her to do.
Ref: DRN68749437I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs P pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs P from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
Mrs P was pregnant at the time of the sale. Work absences resulting from normal  pregnancy 
and childbirth (such as childbirth not involving medical complications and symptoms of 
pregnancy not representing a medical hazard  to mother or baby) were excluded  by the 
policy. But I consider  it unlikely Mrs P wouldve thought shed  be able to claim for these sorts 
of normal pregnancy related issues  in any case such  a term isnt unusual  and I wouldnt 
have expected AXA to highlight it. Also the exclusion didnt extend to claims resulting  from 
more significant  pregnancy or childbirth issues, such as medical  complications  arising  from 
pregnancy which,  subject to the other  terms and conditions, could still be covered.
As for Mrs Ps past health issues, what I have doesnt persuade me her childhood condition  
was a concern  for her at the time of the sale  and I dont think it likely she wouldve thought  
it posed much risk of causing her to miss work in future. So I dont  think  she wouldve  been 
put off the PPI had she known she couldnt  claim  for work  absences related to it. 
Bearing in mind all Mrs P said when she first came to us, taking everything into account  what 
I have doesnt  persuade  me Mrs P wouldve  been caught by any of the other significant 
exclusions  she was in permanent employment  for example. 
So, with all Ive said above in mind, I think Mrs P still had some good  reasons to take the 
policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs P 
from taking the policy,  Mrs P, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs P had known she could only claim for disability  if she were not only unable to do her 
own or any similar job, but also unable  to do any paid work  her education, experience  or 
training might reasonably qualify her to do, it might  have  played into her thinking about what 
to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  although, given Mrs Ps 
circumstances, on balance I think she would  still have  been interested  in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs P would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently  close to what she thought she 
was getting and I think it couldve provided  a useful benefit at a difficult time, notwithstanding  
Mrs Ps work benefits. And, in those  circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not Mrs P 
would have taken  the policy in any event.   
Ref: DRN68749438Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mrs P wouldnt have taken the policy, Im 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken the PPI 
had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude AXA should pay Mrs P compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in had everything happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mrs P thinks  AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs P and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
Ref: DRN68749439circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6874943