K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) cancelled his motor  insurance policy  from 
the start (voided it) and retained his premium.  He wants a refund of the £2,400 hed paid for 
the policy.
background
Mr A said UKI voided his policy  because hed answered some  questions incorrectly.  UKI 
said it would  still have  offered cover  but at a higher  price if Mr A had provided  the correct  
answers to the questions  it asked him. But, because  of the number of incorrect  answers, it 
thought Mr A had answered incorrectly to obtain  cheaper insurance. So it decided to void the 
policy and retain  the premium. But Mr A said the answers hed provided  were simply 
mistakes and he didnt  mean  to make them.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  UKI had 
asked Mr A clear questions. He thought Mr A hadnt  taken  reasonable care to answer the 
questions correctly or to correct these when he had opportunity.  And he thought  this had 
caused UKI loss. So he thought UKI was entitled  to void the policy  and retain the premium. 
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed,  so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A is disappointed and frustrated with UKIs  decision. He said he 
had to save all year to pay for his insurance. And now UKI has retained his premium  after 
just a few weeks  of cover. 
UKI said Mr A had answered  incorrectly questions about how many  cars were at his 
address, the date hed bought his car and whether  he was a homeowner. It said it thought 
these were deliberate  errors to make  the premium cheaper. So it voided the policy  and 
retained his £2,400 premium. 
Under the relevant legislation, where  a complaint arises from misrepresentation of 
information important  to an insurer, we look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the misrepresentation. 
Mr A first took out his policy online in 2017  and renewed it in a phone call in 2018.  Ive 
looked at screenshots of the questions Mr A was asked when he first took out the policy.  I 
think he was asked  clearly how many cars were at his address, and Mr A answered  
incorrectly five instead of three which  he later told UKI was correct. 
I think Mr A was asked clearly if he was a homeowner  and he was provided  with guidance 
about how to answer  this question. But Mr A answered incorrectly  that he was a homeowner.
Ref: DRN61826452And I think Mr A was asked  a clear question about  the date when he bought  his car and I 
think he was provided with guidance about this. Mr A later told UKI that hed bought  the car a 
month before he took out his policy. But he had entered a date four years earlier when he 
completed his application.   
Ive seen the policy schedule UKI sent to Mr A at the start of his policy and at renewal. 
These show the incorrect answers to the three questions above.  Mr A was asked several  
times in these documents to tell UKI about any inaccuracies and warned of the possible 
consequences of not doing  this. But I cant see that he then contacted  it.  
When UKI validated Mr As policy in 2018, it was concerned that there  may be some 
inaccurate answers. It called him to discuss these. Mr A said hed read and understood the 
questions and confirmed  that they were all correct. But Mr A then gave UKI conflicting 
information for the three questions. 
UKI was also concerned  that Mr A had told it that the named driver was his partner when in 
fact he was his father. Mr A said hed corrected this at the renewal call. UKI couldnt provide 
this call. So it gave  Mr A the benefit of the doubt.  So I think that was fair. 
UKI has provided us with evidence from its underwriters that the incorrect answers provided 
by Mr A all made his policy cheaper. If he had answered the questions correctly,  then it 
would still have offered  cover but for a higher price. 
UKI said it accepted  that a consumer might  make one mistake in completing the application,  
but Mr A had made several. Mr A told us that hed been looking for insurance quotes at the 
time he took out the policy in 2017. He said he was tired and made honest mistakes. 
But I think the number  of mistakes Mr A made  shows  that he didnt take reasonable care 
when completing  his application.  I think Mr A was provided with clear guidance in completing 
his application.  If he was unsure, then he could have contacted UKI for clarification. But I 
cant see that he did this. 
I also think Mr A could  have spotted and corrected the errors  in the policy  documents sent to 
him at the start and at renewal. I think Mr A knew that the information was important to UKI, 
but he didnt care that what  hed said was untrue. So I think  that, under the relevant 
legislation, Mr As misrepresentation was reckless. In that case, I think  UKI was entitled 
under the relevant legislation to void Mr As policy and retain his premium. So I cant say it 
did anything wrong  or require it to refund Mr As premium.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6182645