K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs P bought the policy  in 1999 around the same time as taking out a mortgage 
(including a sub account).  They  applied for the mortgage and PPI policy  in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £200 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £11.88 a month but 
it was free for the first 6 months.  
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a sales  representative.  He has told us was not entitled  to 
any sick pay through his employer  but did have less than three months of other means  (such  
as savings) that couldve been used towards  repaying their mortgage  should he be unable to 
work. Mr P has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
Mrs P was not working at the time and was not covered by the policy.  
HSBC has said that the mortgage account  closed before  2008.  
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ps representative  says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr and Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs P and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN66940862The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs P received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreements concluded prior to 2008 That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN66940863The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs P, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent 
Ref: DRN66940864Mr and Mrs P suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs P 
and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs P know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
HSBC has provided  a copy of a separate PPI application form used to apply  for the PPI to 
protect the payments for the mortgages  taken in 1999. I can see at the top of the form, 
customers had the option to tick a Yes box to take the PPI, or a No box to decline it. On 
Mr Ps form, the Yes box has been  ticked. Mr Ps details have been entered,  the cost has 
been set out, and Mr P has signed this form as well as signing a direct  debit mandate  to 
allow HSBC  to collect the premiums,  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure to cover Mr P only. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Mr and Mrs P havent said if HSBC provided  advice when it sold them the credit  and PPI, 
and HSBC cant confirm  either. If HSBC  did provide  advice, it would be held to a higher 
standard. This means HSBC had to advise Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances. So, as this puts Mr and Mrs P in a more favourable position, Ive assessed 
this case as an advised sale. 
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs P. It seems Mr and Mrs P cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ps financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr P would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest HSBC  considered  whether Mr P had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs P given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded HSBC advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs P, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN66940865-Mr and Mrs P had a need for the policy   Mr P was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Ps finances would be put under strain  if he was not working 
 even allowing  for his savings. I also note he didnt have  employee  benefits to fall 
back on. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs P manage the consequences 
were Mr P unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs P.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs P. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ps employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr P be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before they could make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum  of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs P be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr P was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr P were 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr P would have  taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be. I can 
see the PPI application form described  the PPI as cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment and it also had the exact  cost on there. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr P agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs P Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr P all of the information 
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN66940866In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ps representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ps. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ps representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs P about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs P have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that HSBC ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs P? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs P. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs P suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs P would  have still taken out the policy,  had HSBC done  things  
properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs P, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs P have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs P would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs P say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN66940867The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs P had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr P was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr P were given about the cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
I think Mr and Mrs P knew what they would have to pay for the policy, as HSBC told them  
the exact premium  at the point they applied for the policy   the application  form Mr P signed 
had the exact  cost on there. Overall, Im not persuaded they found the cost unacceptable as 
they had been given  the exact  figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
Im not persuaded HSBC made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs P would get back in return in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Ps expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs P thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr P knowingly 
suffered at the start date of the policy or for which he consulted  a doctor about during 
the 12 months before the start date of the policy, which occurs within 12 months of 
the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mr P turned 65. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs P from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr P was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr P wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr P didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN66940868The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr P needed  to be totally unable to do his job. I dont think  this is 
likely to be too different  to what he would have expected to make a claim. He bought cover 
to protect  his repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So, it seems unlikely he would have thought  hed been  able to make a 
successful claim  if he was still working.  
HSBC may not have  told Mr and Mrs P that any claim Mr P made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs P would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr P be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensure their home was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr Ps savings  for other use.
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Mr P reached  65 while the policy was in place - and he 
wouldnt have been able to claim on it at that point. But Mr P was 53 when he took out the 
PPI, so I think its more likely  than not theyd have thought theyd still get some  value out of 
having the PPI, as it would have covered Mr P for a reasonable period of time before he 
turned 65. And the policy would end when he turned 65 so they would stop paying  for it at 
this time. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs P would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr P were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mr and Mrs P would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN66940869presumed Mr and Mrs P would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs P found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs P believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs P in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr and Mrs P compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs P think HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs P, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ps representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs P and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC  had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs P in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Ref: DRN669408610Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6694086