K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that errors and delays by TSB Bank plc meant he didnt receive a 
replacement credit card and PIN in time to use a car hire booking  hed paid for. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 20 March  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what TSB should do to put things right. I invited both parties  to send any additional evidence 
or comments they wished  to make.  I also asked  Mr B to provide evidence of his costs in 
terms of the holiday  he missed out on. 
Mr B responded to say that hed paid for a taxi to and from the car hire service.  But didnt 
provide any evidence of the costs hes incurred. 
TSB responded and said that Mr Bs credit card had a limit of £2,000 but the car hire terms 
and conditions say he needed to have  £5,000  available as a deposit. In addition, TSB sent in 
statements from Mr Bs bank  account that shows  the £342.95 car hire fee has already been 
refunded. TSB agreed to increase the payment for the service provided  to Mr B from £75 to 
£150.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said I intended  to tell TSB to cover the cost of the £342.95  car 
hire fee Mr B lost out on. But its now provided clear evidence to show the fee was originally 
debited from Mr Bs account on 31 August 2018 and refunded  again  on 11 September 2018. 
The date of the actual refund is noted as 6 September 2018, the day Mr B was meant  to pick 
up his car. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im now satisfied that when Mr B wasnt  able to pick up the car 
hed paid for on 6 September  2018  the car hire fee was refunded. As the fees  already been 
refunded to Mr B Im not telling TSB to pay it again.  
Mr Bs sent us an invoice  for another car he hired  between 8 September  2018 and 
10 September 2018 which he was charged £347.99  for. Hes asked for this fee to be 
covered by TSB.  But I dont think thats  fair. The car hire company refunded  Mr B the fee he 
paid for his original  booking when it was cancelled on 6 September 2018. Mr B subsequently 
hired a separate vehicle but he used the car for the days he hired it. Given  the original car 
hire booking has already  been refunded I dont have grounds to tell TSB to cover  the 
subsequent booking Mr B made.
In my provisional decision I also said that Mr B hadnt provided  any evidence of the losses 
he says he incurred as a result of cancelling a holiday. I said that if Mr B provided evidence 
of the costs he paid I would  consider them. 
Ref: DRN67090382In his response to my provisional decision Mr B said that he paid for taxis to and from the 
rental station  but he hasnt sent in any evidence of those costs. Mr Bs confirmed that there  
were no other losses but has said he booked time off of work and he and his family were 
disappointed at what happened.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  for me to award costs to Mr B Id need to see evidence 
of his losses. As he hasnt  provided any evidence, Im not going to make an award. 
Mr Bs told us how disappointing it was for him not to be able to take the holiday hed 
planned. I appreciate that was upsetting and agree that TSBs payment of £75 doesnt  go far 
enough. As a result,  I said I intended to increase the award to £150.  Ive thought about what  
Mr Bs told us in response to my provisional  decision. Having done so, Im satisfied that £150 
fairly reflects the impact  of TSBs  service  on Mr B. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not telling TSB to refund the car hire fee of £342.95 or 
£347.99. As I havent got any evidence of Mr Bs costs Im not making an award to cover  
them. TSB has accepted  my provisional decision that the award for the service provided  to 
Mr B should  be increased to £150  and I still think that figure  fairly reflects the impact of what 
happened. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mr B £150 less 
any compensation already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision  dated 20 March 2019
complaint
Mr B complains that errors and delays  by TSB Bank plc meant he didnt receive a 
replacement credit  card and PIN in time to use a car hire booking hed paid for.
background
Mr B arranged  to hire a car and paid the fee by debit  card. But the car hire company needed  a credit 
card to pay the deposit and complete the booking.
Ref: DRN67090383In early September 2018 Mr Bs TSB credit card was subject to fraudulent activity  and 
cancelled. TSB agreed to courier the replacement card and PIN to Mr B for
5 September 2018 so he could use it to pick up his car. But the card wasnt received until
6 September 2018, the day of the booking. No replacement PIN was received. As a result, Mr B 
wasnt able to use his credit  card for the deposit and couldnt hire the car.
Mr Bs told us that he wasnt  able to get a refund  from the car hire company  because he didnt 
cancel the booking in advance.
Mr B made  several  phone calls to TSB between 6 September 2018 and 9 September 2018 in 
addition to the calls he made to try and arrange for his new credit  card to be delivered in time.  
During his calls with TSB it offered him £75 to cover his call costs and recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused  by its delays. Mr B didnt accept.
Mr B referred  his complaint  to this service and an investigator  looked  at what had happened.  He 
asked TSB to pay £75 because of the delay  in sending  the Mr Bs replacement credit card and 
because of the length of time he spent on the phone. TSB agreed but Mr B didnt think  the offer was 
fair and asked for his complaint to be appealed. As a result,  Mr Bs complaints been passed to me to 
make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive reached a different decision to the 
investigator.
In the calls Ive listened  to TSB accepts it failed to send  Mr B his replacement credit card by
courier for 5 September  2018 as agreed. Mr B didnt  receive a new PIN either  so wasnt able to pick 
up the car hed booked. So I can understand why Mr B is annoyed at what  happened.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Bs car hire booking. In its submission TSB says the car hire companys 
terms say deposits can be made using a debit card but Mr B says he had to use a credit  card. Ive 
read the car hire companys  terms  and whilst some  deposits are processed with a debit  card, for 
certain higher end categories a credit card has to be used. Mr B was renting  a vehicle in the luxury  
category which meant he had to give a larger deposit. From  what  Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr B 
needed his credit  card to complete the booking.
Mr Bs also told us that he didnt receive a refund  for his booking because  he didnt  qualify for one. 
Ive again looked at the car hire companys terms and can see that customers  can cancel (at a cost)  
before a booking is due to start. But if the booking isnt taken up at the point  its due to begin no 
refund is due. I dont  think  Mr B received a refund for his booking. Given  Mr Bs current  account  
shows the £342.95 was debited  on 6 September 2018  but not refunded Im satisfied no refund was 
received.
Theres some debate about  when the £342.95 was actually debited. TSBs case submission says 
the transaction was on 10 September  2018 and debited Mr Bs account  the following  day. But the 
account transaction list it sent shows £342.95 debited the account  on 11 September 2018 but the 
transaction was actually  carried out on 6 September 2018.
Mr Bs forwarded us an invoice from the end of August  2018 that indicates  he paid at that time. 
And during a call on 7 September 2018 theres a discussion between  two TSB staff members  
where its confirmed the transaction originally debited the account  on
30 August 2018.
From what Ive seen Im satisfied the latest point the transaction was put through  was
6 September 2018, the day Mr B was meant to collect the car.
Ref: DRN67090384In its complaint submission TSB says that it wouldnt ever send the card and PIN on the same day. 
Whilst that may be the case  Im satisfied thats what Mr B was told would happen when  he spoke to 
TSB. And TSB has accepted that it discussed arrangements for a new credit card and PIN with Mr B 
on 3 September 2018 so I think there wouldve  been time to have arranged for both to be supplied  
by 5 September 2018.
If that absolutely wasnt something TSB could arrange it shouldve told Mr B that, instead of leaving  
him to believe hed be able to complete the car hire booking as planned. That wouldve given him a 
chance to try and change his booking  or make alternative arrangements.
Mr B says that as a result of not being  able to pick up the hire car he wasnt able to take his family on 
holiday. Both TSB and I have asked  Mr B to give details and evidence of specific costs he lost out on 
but hes not provided anything. As a result, I havent taken them  into account. But should  Mr B be 
able to provide evidence that he incurred  costs  because he had to cancel his holiday  Ill consider 
them.
Mr B says he was able to hire a different  lower category vehicle for a shorter period  a few
days after the original booking. But Mr Bs sent us the invoice and I can see the fee he was 
charged was debited from the current account as a separate transaction. From what Ive seen, 
theres no evidence subsequent  car hire costs  were offset  by the original cancelled booking.
Ive also listened to all of Mr Bs calls with TSB between 6 September  2018 and
9 September 2018. Mr B spent an unreasonable  amount  of time discussing what
happened, often repeating the same information for different people.  I think it shouldve been easier 
for Mr B to discuss what happened with TSB.
Its clear the situations had an impact on Mr B. Hes told us that he had to cancel a family  holiday 
and I can see hes spent  a lot of time trying  to find out what happened. TSB also failed to send his 
replacement card and PIN as promised  so I can understand why Mr B is upset.
Having carefully considered everything Ive seen Im satisfied Mr B wasnt able to rent a car on 6 
September 2018 because of errors  and delays by TSB when sending out a replacement  credit card 
and PIN. To resolve  the complaint Im minded to tell TSB to do the following:
-     Refund  the car hire fee of £342.95
-     Pay Mr B a total of £150 for the distress  and inconvenience caused less any
payments already made
-Subject to Mr B providing proof, TSB should refund costs  incurred as a result of cancelling 
the holiday. Mr B should  provide  evidence of these costs in his response to this decision 
for me to consider before I issue my final decision.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint  and direct TSB Bank Plc to settle in line 
with the above guidance.
Mr B and TSB have  until 3 April 2019 to send me anything further theyd like me to consider before I 
make a final decision.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6709038