K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I sent Mr R and Bank of Scotland  my provisional decision on 8 March 2019. I said that 
before I made my final decision Id look at any more comments and evidence that I got by 
8 April 2019.
Since I issued my provisional  decision the parties have not sent me any new comments and 
evidence to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as in my provisional decision. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to send  us the specific  paperwork that was completed 
at the time of sale. I dont think this is surprising given how long ago the policy  was sold to 
Mr R. For the same  reasons, I wouldnt  expect  Mr Rs recollection  of the sale to be that 
detailed. But Bank of Scotland has sent us a sample  agreement, which,  along  with what  I 
know about  Bank of Scotlands sales practices at the time,  satisfies  me that 
Bank of Scotland most likely made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need for the cover. In this regard Ive carefully considered  what 
Mr R has said about his university  course, but I understand  this wouldnt have started  
until around  September  1999, whereas this policy was sold to Mr R in August 1998 at a 
time when Bank of Scotlands records indicate  he had been employed as a manager 
since 1993.  So Im not persuaded  I can say it was wrong of Bank of Scotland to 
recommend the cover  in 1998.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN66626742Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr R.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr R about  that. Because Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr R, that was unfair.
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case. 
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said. But for the reasons explained  above,  these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr R any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before .
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6662674