K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Hyundai Capital 
UK Limited,  trading as Hyundai  Finance (Hyundai), has not been  of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr P took receipt of a new car in September 2017. He financed  the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Hyundai.  Within the first few weeks  he complained  to them  
about the car juddering.  In January 2018  the clutch and flywheel were replaced. But Mr P 
says this didnt  resolve  the problem. So, in May 2018, the clutch  was replaced again. Mr P 
says the problem was still present. In August/September of 2018, during a test drive with a 
technician, the technician was unable to replicate  the judder but he noted that when Mr P 
was driving the car he was able to. So the dealership suggested the judder was probably a 
result of Mr Ps driving style.
Mr P complained to Hyundai and an independent inspection was organised.  The inspector 
noted a judder when engaging  reverse and first gear but owing to the mileage that had by 
that time been  completed he was unable  to say that the fault had been present when the car 
was supplied. 
So Mr P referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
thought there was evidence that there was a fault with the car when it was supplied and that 
repairs had not resolved  the issue for Mr P. He therefore suggested that Hyundai allow  Mr P 
to reject the car and terminate his finance agreement with them.  He thought  they should 
refund 20% of the finance  instalments Mr P had made in respect of the lack of use hed had 
from the car and he thought, as Mr P had been  inconvenienced by the matter, Hyundai 
should pay him £250 compensation.
Hyundai didnt agree with the investigators  view. They said a clutch  was a wear  and tear 
item and they explained that as the technician could not replicate  the fault they were 
persuaded it was Mr Ps driving style that had caused it. They said that 20% was a 
disproportionate refund  of the instalments and they suggested there was no link between the 
first failure and the second failure. They therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Hyundai so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN67966512Mr P acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Hyundai, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr P. This was a 
brand new car and I would not expect  it to have any faults.
When theres a fault present at the point of supply the relevant legislation allows  the 
business one opportunity  to repair it. Thereafter, if a fault persists or others occur that were 
present, or developing, at the point the car was supplied, wed usual ask the business to 
allow the car to be rejected.
The flywheel and clutch were replaced  on Mr Ps car after it had completed  only 4,500 miles 
and after only a few months of ownership. Im persuaded that this fault was most probably 
developing when  the car was supplied to Mr P because it happened so quickly  and because  
Mr P has explained he was experiencing juddering from the onset. I dont think its 
reasonable to suggest this was due to wear and tear as Hyundai have suggested.  I dont 
think a reasonable  person would expect  a clutch or flywheel to need replacing  so soon.
I therefore think the business had its opportunity to repair this car in January 2018. 
Im persuaded that the repair probably failed as I dont think Mr Ps complaints  about 
juddering have ever gone away. The second  clutch replacement also doesnt seem to have 
worked as I note the independent inspector still found evidence of judder  when  changing 
gears in September 2019. 
Im not persuaded that the juddering is related to Mr Ps driving style. I say that because the 
independent inspector replicated the fault and also because Im persuaded Mr P is an 
experienced driver.
In those circumstances I think it would be fair for the business to now allow Mr P to reject the 
car and to terminate his finance agreement.
Mr P has had to return the car on several occasions  to have the judder  investigated.  Im 
persuaded its probably always  been present and this will have constantly impacted on his 
driving enjoyment. I therefore think a refund of 20% of finance instalments is reasonable. 
Mr P was entitled to expect a trouble free drive in his new car and I dont think  thats  ever 
been the case.
Hes also had to return the car to the dealership on several occasions  and has had to pursue 
a complaint through this service and provide detailed evidence when I think  the complaint 
could have been resolved  earlier. In the circumstances I think it would be fair for Hyundai to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  this has caused and Im asking them to pay Mr P 
£250 in respect  of this.
Ref: DRN67966513my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Hyundai  Capital  UK Limited  
to:
terminate the finance  agreement at no further cost to Mr P;
collect the car at no cost to Mr P;
refund  20% of the finance instalments Mr P has paid in recognition  of his lack of 
enjoyment;
pay Mr P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6796651