K821x#15Complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about a running account  credit  facility and sixty-three high-cost  short  term 
credit instalment loans  which Sunny provided to Mr B between  May 2014 and August 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided  
with any further  credit  on the running  account  from the tenth drawdown  in October 2014, 
instalment loans 1 to 5 and 11 to 63. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr B was unlikely  to have been  able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the respective times it provided Mr B with tenth running  account 
facility drawdown and instalment loan 11. 
I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that Mr Bs use of 
his running account  facility suggested there was no reasonable  prospect of him clearing the 
balance within a reasonable  period of time.  It also ought to have been apparent from his 
Ref: DRN65167542repayment history, which Sunny ought  to have been monitoring that Mr B may well have 
been relying on the facility and borrowing further  to make his payments. Sunny then 
transitioned Mr B from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt be used  for 
extended periods  to a series of instalment loans which had the same  effect.  
As our adjudicator pointed out there was a break  in borrowing between instalment loan 5 
being repaid and instalment loan 6 being taken.  But by instalment loan 11 Mr B was once 
again displaying a pattern  consistent  with someone who may have been in financial difficulty 
rather than to cover a short-term need. Sunny continued lending to Mr B even  when this 
pattern was repeated and in circumstances  where it ought reasonably to have realised that 
any further loans  were more likely than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr B had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny  shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on the open-ended credit  facility from the 
tenth drawdown in October 2014,  instalment loans 1 to 5 and 11 to 63;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about instalment 
loans 1 to 5 and 11 to 63 is adverse. So all reference to these loans  should  be 
removed from Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6516754