K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that HSBC Bank  Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) when they sold her a mortgage in 1993.
background
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint on the basis  that the PPI was 
unsuitable for Mrs C as she would not have been  able to make a claim on the policy for an 
existing medical condition. Our adjudicator  felt it was unlikely  that Mrs C wouldve taken out 
the policy if the exclusion for a pre-existing medical  condition had been drawn to her 
attention.
HSBC disagrees. It has raised a number of points in response to the adjudicators 
assessment and asked  for a review.  So this complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC says it sold the policy on an advised basis. So it had to recommend to Mrs C 
something that was suitable. HSBC doesnt dispute  that Mrs C had a pre-existing medical 
condition when she took out PPI with her mortgage  in 1993. And Mrs C has provided 
evidence that she had a chronic  condition which existed before  the sale.  
HSBC has argued that as the condition may not have caused any concern to Mrs C in the 
12 months before or after the sale;  so it may have  been one which  she may have been able 
to claim for. I have considered the documentation that we have from HSBC around  the time 
of the sale. These documents suggest that Mrs C would not have been able to claim for an 
existing chronic condition. The policy summary  from March 1993 says,
Pre-existing medical condition
1)Any physical or mental defect,  infirmity or recurring disease for which  the Customer  
has received treatment or advice  during the 12 months immediately preceding the 
Commencement Date of Insurance which recurs during the first 12 months  of the 
insurance, or
2)Any chronic or continuing disease  suffered by and which  is known to the Customer  at 
the Commencement Date of Insurance
The other documents we have from around this time are very similar. So I think  it most likely  
that these are the terms that applied to Mrs C at the time of the sale. Whilst HSBC has 
focused on part one of the definition,  it seems clear to me that the condition  was caught if it 
triggered either part of the definition. Mrs Cs condition was described  by her doctor as 
congenital.  Mrs C has described the condition as chronic and explained that whilst she had 
surgery for the condition  whilst a teenager, the condition was not cured  the surgery was 
Ref: DRN62052952corrective. And so I think that the policy limitations meant  that Mrs C wouldnt have been 
able to claim for absence  from work as a result of her pre-existing medical condition. 
Ive thought carefully about what I think Mrs C is likely to have done if shed understood the 
full impact on her of the policy  limitations. Ive taken into account that HSBC says it doesnt  
think that Mrs C wouldve been put off the PPI as it thinks that her condition  hadnt caused 
her to have  significant  time off work in the past.  
But Mrs Cs testimony is that the condition had existed  for over 25 years at the time of the 
sale and that it was chronic. Mrs C told us that the condition  had caused  her a period  of 
incapacity of up to six months when she had the corrective surgery. And she noted  that the 
surgery was not successful at the first attempt. Mrs C told us that the condition  continued  to 
cause her pain throughout her life for which she took medication as she needed it and that 
the condition had caused her to take time off work since the surgery.  
So, I think Mrs C wouldve  wanted to avoid  a policy which wouldnt have covered her for a 
condition she may reasonably have expected at the time to lead to her having  to take time 
off work in the future.
Looked at overall, even though Mrs C wouldve been able to claim other benefits the policy  
offered, I think this policy limitation wouldve been  enough to put Mrs C off taking out this 
PPI. 
So it follows  that I think HSBC should refund the PPI premiums she paid.   
what the business should do to put things right
HSBC should  put Mrs C in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and HSBC  should:
Pay Mrs C the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct HSBC Bank Plc to pay Mrs C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Douglas Sayers 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6205295