K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says that Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs W or FICL sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision  - for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject 
my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ref: DRN67217092Mrs W bought  the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a store  card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf of FICL. I cant consider this complaint against 
the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, or its predecessor-
in-title, were regulated  by the then Financial  Services Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation 
activities, or were otherwise  covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller  was acting  as its agent so it has taken responsibility  for 
the sale.  To keep things  simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  than any other  business.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint because:
I think FICL made Mrs W aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it.
I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ws store card application  form.  On this form, 
theres a section with the heading; 2. Protecting your account Account Cover  (only  sign 
this box if you require Account Cover) 
Underneath this theres an option that states; Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover Mrs W has signed separately in this section to take the PPI. Shes also 
signed the overall  application form, so I think this indicates what she wanted. Although Mrs W 
has said that she wasnt  aware that PPI had been  added  to her account, the PPI premiums 
would have appeared  on her monthly card statements  when she had an outstanding monthly  
balance. 
I think  that even in a scenario where Mrs W signed for PPI without knowingly doing so, shed 
have quite reasonably questioned this with FICL much sooner than she did when PPI charge 
appeared on her statements. But I havent seen evidence  that she did and PPI remained on 
the account for some time after it was taken out.
FICL didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for her, but it 
did still have to give her good enough information so that she could decide if she wanted to 
take it out. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But Mrs W doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover   and based  on what I know about  her circumstances it looks like the policy  
couldve been useful  to her. So I dont think better information wouldve  stopped her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments, including  what  shes said about not needing PPI because  
of her existing  means of making her repayments if she was unwell and unable to work or if she was 
made unemployed. Mrs W has indicated  in her PPI questionnaire that she would  have been entitled to 
6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half sick pay and that she had less than 3 months  worth 
of other means  she could have used. 
Ref: DRN67217093Whilst Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs W had less than 3 months of other means  (aside from sick 
pay), FICL questioned the level of sick pay entitlement that Mrs W has told us she had. At the time of 
sale, Mrs Ws representative  says that shed been  employed for around 2 years.  
Based on my knowledge of the sector in which Mrs W worked, the level of sick pay described (6 
months full and 6 months half) would normally only be the entitlement once an employee had a longer 
period of service. When  Ive referred to Mrs Ws employers public  website, the normal level of sick 
pay for around 2 years service is 2 months full pay and two months half pay. I think this is more likely 
reflective of what Mrs Ws entitlement was at the time of sale.
So, when Ive considered Mrs Ws likely sick pay entitlement  alongside her other means, the PPI 
policy still could have paid out for longer  so I cant  fairly say that Mrs W wouldnt have found the PPI 
useful if she was made unemployed or was unwell and unable to work.
If the assumption Ive made  about Mrs Ws sick pay is incorrect and Mrs W has evidence  to show that 
she was entitled to a greater level of sick pay, she still has the opportunity to provide this and I can 
reconsider the complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
If either Mrs W or Financial Insurance Company Limited  have anything further to add, they should  do 
so by 17 June 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6721709