K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about repairs  carried out by Ageas Insurance Limited following a claim on 
her home insurance policy. Within  this decision, any reference to Ageas will include its 
agents.
background
Mrs D has a home insurance policy with Ageas and made a claim on it when an escape  of 
water caused damage in her kitchen. Ageas accepted Mrs Ds claim and carried out repairs. 
But Mrs D was unhappy with some of Ageas work and complained.
Mrs D said Ageas hadnt plastered  behind her kitchen units and hadnt used lime plaster 
behind her fridge. She also said that Ageas had reinstalled her oven, but it wasnt working.  
And Ageas hadnt reconnected her hob. 
Ageas said there wasnt any plaster behind the kitchen units prior to the escape of water  
though, so theyd left the wall as it originally was. And they said that the wall behind  the 
fridge was already plastered in sand  and cement, not lime, so theyd  used sand and cement 
plaster too. Ageas also said that Mrs Ds oven was confirmed as working when reinstalled. 
So if she wanted it looked at it any further, shed need to provide a report  setting out why it 
was no longer working. And they couldnt  reconnect Mrs Ds hob to the gas because the 
material behind it wasnt non-combustible;  meaning it failed safety  regulations and was 
something Mrs D was liable for making safe. 
Unhappy with Ageas position, Mrs D brought  her complaint here.  But our investigator didnt 
think there was enough  evidence  to conclude that there was plaster behind Mrs Ds kitchen 
units before  the escape of water. Nor that the incorrect plaster  had been  used  behind  her 
fridge or that the oven  wasnt working.  Our investigator didnt think Ageas had been  
unreasonable in refusing to connect  something to a material which didnt  meet current 
regulations either. So because  of that, they didnt recommened that her complaint be upheld.
Mrs D disagreed and, in summary,  said she didnt have evidence  to disprove whatd been  
said but knew her property and knew her claims were truthful. So as no agreement  was 
reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs Ds set out her position clearly and Id 
like to thank her for doing that. But, as our investigator explained, there is a lack of 
substantive evidence in this complaint. 
Looking at that in relation to the plaster behind  Mrs Ds kitchen units,  Mrs Ds said there  was 
plaster before the escape of water, but Ageas have said there wasnt.  Unfortunately,  in the 
absence of evidence  to substantiate  that either  way, itd be unfair of me to conclude that 
Ageas had done something wrong. Thats not to say that I doubt Mrs D. Just that without 
more Im unable to conclude that Ageas should  have plastered  the walls behind  her kitchen 
units.
Mrs D has since  gone on to tell this service she cant be sure whether the original  plaster 
behind her fridge was in fact lime.  And so, has said Ageas were within their rights to have 
Ref: DRN64636792used the plaster  they did. But even if Mrs D had maintained her original position  on this 
point, given the lack of evidence surrounding  it I would have still found  it difficult  to conclude  
that Ageas had used the wrong type of plaster.
Further, there isnt anything to demonstrate that Mrs Ds oven isnt working  either. Again, 
thats no to say that I doubt Mrs Ds testimony  here. But for me to fairly direct  Ageas to do 
something Id need to see that theyd done  something wrong. And without more, Mrs D 
hasnt been able to demonstrate that. 
Im aware that Mrs Ds hob wasnt reconnected to her gas supply. Ageas have said that was 
because the material  between the upstand and the wall contained a plastic  type moulding, 
which showed signs of combustion and wasnt compliant  with current  regulations. Mrs D has 
again disputed  the type of material she has in place there and has given her opinion on it 
being non-combustible. 
My role in this complaint isnt to determine the type of material thats currently  in place or its 
combustibility though. Its to decide whether Ageas  acted fairly and reasonably in refusing to 
reconnect the gas to Mrs Ds hob. 
That material appears to have been in place prior to Ageas becoming involved in the repairs  
of Mrs Ds kitchen. Ageas engineer has said its not safe and it the material  itself wasnt  
included as part of the repairs in Mrs Ds kitchen. So I dont think  it was unreasonable  of 
Ageas to refuse  to reconnect it. I appreciate that Mrs D thinks  Ageas could have done more  
in relation to this. But for the reasons given above I dont think it Ageas acted unreasonably 
here.
I know that Mrs D feels  very strongly  about  whats happened. But unfortunately there just 
isnt enough available evidence to substantiate her complaint. And so, Im unable  to 
conclude that Ageas have done  something  wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6463679