K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance, 
(PPI), policy.
background
Mr W bought the policy  during  a meeting in 1996  at the same  time as taking out a personal
loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr W didnt 
agree, the matter  has come to me to decide.
my finding
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this when  deciding Mr Ws case.
Because the sale took place so long ago Barclays no longer has details of the amount or 
term of Mr Ws loan or the cost of the PPI. Nor has it been able to send us copies of Mr Ws 
actual signed  loan application or agreement. It has however sent us samples of the forms 
that it says were in use at the time of the sale. I have no reason to conclude that the 
application and loan agreement signed  by Mr W would have differed substantially from the 
samples. And Ive therefore based  my decision on the likelihood that his application and 
agreement were in a substantially similar  form. And Ive made  my decision by reference to 
these and to what  we know generally about Barclays sales  process.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I explain why below.
I think that its likely that Mr W knew that the policy was optional  and that he chose to 
take it out. I say this because the sample loan application form has a section  in it 
headed: Barclayloan Protection. Under this are two equally prominent sentences. One 
to request the insurance and the other to decline it. It may be that it was Barclays 
representative who completed the form requesting the insurance, rather than Mr W 
himself. But Im satisfied that the representative would have filled in the application after
discussing Mr Ws requirements with him. And Mr W would have had the chance  to
review the completed  form and raise any queries before signing it;
Barclays recommended the PPI, to Mr W so it needed to take reasonable steps to
ensure that it was suitable for him. From  what I know  about Mr Ws circumstances at the
time and the terms and conditions of the policy, I find that it was suitable  for him 
because:
oMr W was eligible  for the policy; 
Ref: DRN60037702oMr W wasnt caught by any of the its main restrictions and limitations  - such as
those affecting  someone  who had a pre-existing medical condition;
oMr W has told us that, at the time the PPI was sold to him, he was entitled to some 
sick pay from his employer and that he was drawing a pension from a previous 
employment. He also said that he didnt have  any other insurance or savings to help 
repay his loan had he been  unable to work. But following a successful  claim the PPI 
would have made his loan repayments for up to 12 months had he been off work  
because he was unemployed.  And in the case of him having had an accident or 
being ill, the payments would have been made  until he was able to return to work  or 
the end of the loan term, whichever happened first. These payments would have 
been in addition to any other means  he may have had, leaving these latter  funds 
available to help meet his other  expenditure while he wasnt  working. So I find that 
that the policy would have been of use to Mr W;
oThe policy was reasonably priced by reference  both to the benefits  it offered and to 
similar policies  available in the market at the time. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr W couldnt afford it;
oI think its likely that the PPI was paid for by way of a single premium  at the start of 
the loan. And that an amount to pay for this was added to the loan. The sample loan 
agreement which Barclays has sent us shows the amount  of this additional loan. It 
also shows the total interest payable on this sum and the total cost of the 
PPI,separately from the interest and total payable  on the cash  loan. So I think  that 
Mr W would  have known how much the PPI would have cost him had he kept the 
loan for its full term;
oIf Mr W had cancelled the loan early he may not have got a pro rata refund on the 
premium. I dont  know what  Barclays  told Mr W about that at the time it sold him the 
policy. But, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr W thought that he might pay 
off the loan early. So I dont  think  that this feature  of the insurance made  it unsuitable 
for him.
It may be that Barclays didnt give Mr W all the details about  the PPI that it ought  to have 
so that he could make a fully informed decision. But, for the reasons Ive given above, I 
dont think that clearer information would have  changed  his mind and stopped him 
buying it. So I dont  think that Mr W has lost out because of anything that Barclays may 
have failed to do or done wrong during the sale. So theres nothing  that I require  it to put 
right.
As explained, Ive considered everything Mr W has told us, including  that he has had other 
complaints about  PPI which  have been  upheld. But in reaching my conclusion here I have to 
consider only the facts  of this complaint. So this doesnt affect  my decision.
Ref: DRN60037703my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my decision is that I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Ros Barnett
Ref: DRN6003770