K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Fleet  Mortgages Ltd wont accept funds from his childrens Premium 
Bonds accounts  to redeem his buy to let (BTL) mortgage.
background
Mr H has a BTL mortgage  with Fleet. He says hes been unemployed since  December 2018 
so is unable to remortgage the property which has led to him being stuck  on the reversionary 
rate of over 5%.
Mr H says this meant his only option was to repay the mortgage  in full. He says Fleet 
accepted £150,000 that he managed to raise, but it refused the remaining £40,000 because 
it came  from his childrens accounts.
Our investigator, after speaking to National Savings and Investments (NS&I), said that the 
funds belonged to the children therefore  Fleet did nothing wrong  in refusing to accept those 
funds to repay Mr Hs BTL mortgage. He said it wasnt  unreasonable of Fleet to take the 
view that a minor cant gift funds  for such a purpose. As Mr H didnt agree the matters  been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an unusual case  and Im not surprised Fleet doesnt have a specific  policy  written 
down for this very individual circumstance. But what we do have points towards  gifts from 
children not being acceptable. The online  intermediaries  guide,  when talking about deposits 
to buy a property,  defines  immediate family members as spouse, mother, father, sibling, or 
grandparent. So it seems fair to say the reference to a Gift from an immediate family 
member in the Source  of Funds  document would have the same  definition.
That document says the family  member  must  provide various bits of information  including  
some form of ID detailing their signature, and a letter confirming the funds are a gift, 
non-repayable, and that they will gain no interest  in the property.
We dont know how old Mr Hs children are but I think its a fair assumption to say they are 
under 18 otherwise Mr H would have pointed out theyre not minors. I think  its also fair to 
say it would be inappropriate  for a mortgage  lender to knowingly accept funds from a minor 
to repay  a debt thats not (and cant be due to their age) theirs.  NS&I  was clear when asked 
by our investigator that the funds belong  to the children, not to Mr H. Therefore the funds are 
not Mr Hs to do with as he wishes, and so Fleet cannot knowingly accept them in repayment 
of Mr Hs BTL mortgage. It may be other mortgage lenders will accept the funds on this 
basis, but that doesnt mean Fleet also has to if it feels  that in doing  so it put itself in breach 
of its Money Laundering  requirements.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 28 March 2020.
Ref: DRN62507702Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6250770