K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading  as Sunny, lent to him in an
irresponsible manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 8 January 2020,  
an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision,  so I wont repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Sunny shouldnt  have given  Mr B 
loans five to 12 and what I thought it should  do to put matters right. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr B accepted my provisional decision but Sunny didnt. It said, in summary:
It remained of the view that Mr Bs complaint should only be upheld  in relation to 
loans 10-12.
It allows customers to have four loans  at the same time and the fact that Mr B applied 
for more  than one loan over a two month period wouldnt automatically alert it to the 
possibility that he was having problems  managing his money.
Mr B never missed  a payment to Sunny and was never in arrears.
It relied on information provide by Mr B and from independent  sources. 
It didnt use Mr Bs full monthly  disposable income. 
If Mr B had five or more outstanding  short-term loans and all of those loans had been 
reported to credit  reference agencies, it would have declined his application.
It took into account the credit commitments Mr B declared and those reported to 
credit reference agencies.
Mr B could  afford to repay loan five.
The borrowing pattern  by loans 10-12 may be indicative  of someone having  problems 
managing money but it doesnt  agree that the borrowing pattern, in itself and in the 
absence of other factors, automatically means that the lending  was unsustainable.  
Its incorrect to assume that the number of loans  it granted necessarily  impaired
Mr Bs ability  to access mainstream credit.  
Ref: DRN65658712my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the checks Sunny carried  out before loans one to four were proportionate but I remain 
of the view that it should have done  more before loan five onwards. Thats because that was 
Mr Bs fifth loan with Sunny in a little over two months. So, there were indications  that Mr B 
may have  been  having difficulties managing his money. I note what Sunny says about how it 
constructs its product  but I dont think that alters the fact that proportionate checks  before 
loan five would likely  have  shown that Mr B couldnt afford to repay  further borrowing. At this 
point, it wasnt sufficient  for Sunny to rely on what Mr B said and what had been reported to 
credit reference agencies. 
 
The fact that Mr B didnt  miss repayments  doesnt  show that he could afford to repay the 
loans in a sustainable way. 
I think, on balance  and for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, that the pattern 
of lending from loan ten shows that the loans from then onwards were unsustainable. Short 
term loans are a solution to temporary cash flow problems. In this case, I think  that by the 
time Mr B asked for loan 10  after hed repaid and borrowed multiple times - he was not 
likely to have been borrowing  to solve a short-term problem but rather to meet  an ongoing 
need. 
Im not saying that Mr B couldnt access  any form of mainstream credit  but that the 
borrowing from Sunny  potentially limited Mr Bs access to mainstream  credit, as the number 
of loans he borrowed and the period over which he was borrowing would likely be viewed 
negatively by other lenders.
Ive considered whats been said but I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision. So, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think that 
Sunny should  have  given  Mr B loans five to 12.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. I now require Elevate Credit 
International Limited, trading as Sunny to:
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans five to 12;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans five to nine from Mr Bs credit file;
the number  of loans  taken from loan ten onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans ten to 12 should be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file.
Ref: DRN65658713 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65658714extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Sunny gave Mr B 12 instalment loans  between May 2016  and September 2016. At the outset, the 
loans were repayable in six, monthly repayments. Mr B repaid all the loans. A summary of Mr Bs 
lending from Sunny  is shown as an appendix to this decision.
Mr B says that he couldnt  afford  to repay the loans. He says that he had other short-term loans 
and was dependent on short-term borrowing.  Mr B wants a refund of interest and charges, with 
interest, and information about the loans removed from his credit file.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Bs complaint. She said that Sunny shouldnt  have given  Mr B 
loans five to 12. The adjudicator said that by loan five, proportionate  checks  would likely have shown 
that Mr B was having problems  managing  his money. She said that by loan six, the overall pattern  of 
borrowing suggested that Mr B had become  persistently reliant on short-term  loans. The adjudicator  
set out what  Sunny should do to put matters right.
Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicator.  It said, in summary:
It carries out appropriate checks before deciding to lend.
The loans were affordable  and sustainable.
Mr B settled  his loans early.
Its customers are assigned a notional credit limit and are able to take a maximum of four 
loans up to that limit, subject to affordability and creditworthiness checks.
It doesnt allow a customer to have more that four concurrent short-term  loans with any 
lender at any one time.
It doesnt agree  that its lending caused Mr B to become persistently  reliant on short-
term loans.
It took into account  information provided by credit reference agencies.
Mr B used  its loans for short-term borrowing needs.
Sunny made an offer to uphold Mr Bs complaint from loan ten onwards.  Mr B didnt accept that offer. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Ref: DRN65658715Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice, this 
means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could repay  the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether 
the loan payments  were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.  Of course, the loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could  sustainably make 
their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular, the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while meeting  other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments.  And it 
follows that a lender  should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I dont think that Sunny  was wrong to give Mr B loans one to four. Given the repayment amounts, 
what was apparent about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time and his history with the lender  at that 
point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny  to ask Mr B for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information Mr B 
provided or the information  Sunny shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve  been 
proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr B said about his
finances at that stage.
Before loan five, I think Sunny shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture  of
Mr Bs financial situation. Thats because that was Mr Bs fifth loan with Sunny in a little over two 
months. So, there were indications that Mr B may have been having  difficulties managing his money. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think proportionate checks before loan five would  likely  have shown  that 
Mr B couldnt afford to repay further borrowing. I say that because he already had three other short-
term loans that he hadnt  yet repaid.  Thats in addition  to two unpaid loans with Sunny. I dont think 
that Sunny should have give Mr B loan five or the subsequent loans.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Bs lending history  with Sunny, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which  Sunny should reasonably  have  seen that further lending was 
Ref: DRN65658716unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further  loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan ten. By 
loan ten, Mr Bs overall pattern of borrowing  suggested  that he had become  persistently  reliant on 
short-term loans. Mr B took out loan two shortly after repaying loan one, loans three,  four and five 
shortly after repaying loan two and loan six, seven and eight shortly after repaying  loan five. Loan 
nine was for a lower  amount  than Mr Bs previous
loans. By the time Mr B asked for loan ten, hed repaid and borrowed multiple times.  Whilst the 
amounts borrowed varied, they didnt decrease significantly  and consistently. In my view,  in addition 
to upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan five onwards, I think that the pattern of lending  from loan 
ten shows  that the loans from then onwards were  unsustainable.
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan ten 
onwards because the number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these  high-cost loans.
For the reasons  Ive given above, I intend to uphold  Mr Bs complaint about  loans five to 12 and 
Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what I intend  to direct Sunny to do
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans five to 12;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  five to nine from Mr Bs credit file;
the number of loans  taken from loan ten onwards  means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans ten to 12 should  be removed from Mr Bs credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must  give
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited, trading  as Sunny, to take the steps Ive set out above.
appendix  summary of Mr Bs borrowing from Sunny
date £ borrowed date repaid
107/05/2016 £150.00 26/05/2016
218/06/2016 £150.00 28/06/2016
306/07/2016 £250.00 27/07/2016
409/07/2016 £150.00 27/07/2016
512/07/2016 £100.00 27/07/2016
Ref: DRN65658717628/07/2016 £300.00 26/08/2016
729/07/2016 £100.00 15/08/2016
830/07/2016 £400.00 15/08/2016
920/08/2016 £100.00 30/08/2016
10 28/08/2016 £200.00 30/08/2016
11 30/08/2016 £350.00 28/09/2016
12 04/09/2016 £250.00 28/09/2016
Ref: DRN6565871