K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies when he took out loans with it.
background
Nationwide sold Mr B the policies when he took out two loans. The first loan was taken out in 
1997 and the second loan was taken to pay off this in 2001.  The policies covered Mr B if he 
lost his job for up to 12 months or was unable to work due to accident  or sickness until the 
end of each loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think his complaint should be upheld against either sale because  she 
thought the policies were presented as optional and thought the PPI wouldve been useful 
for Mr B.
Mr B disagrees. He says taking PPI was mandatory  to get the loans. 
So his complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint on either  of the sales of PPI.
Nationwide needed  to make it clear  to Mr B he had a choice in taking the PPI. Mr B said this 
wasnt done and Nationwide say that the documentation from the time of the sales  makes it 
clear to Mr B that PPI was optional. 
So to decide how the PPI was presented,  Ive considered what  Mr B has said along with 
what Nationwide have  said about  its sales process and any documents weve  been given 
from the time of each  sale.  
Nationwide have given  me a copy of Mr Bs loan application form for his 1997 loan. I can see 
on it there is a separate section titled PROTECTING YOUR REPAYMENTS that deals with 
PPI. Within the section  Mr B is given the option to select YES to take PPI or NO  to 
decline it. I can see Mr B has ticked to take PPI and signed directly  under this selection.  If Mr 
B didnt  want PPI he couldve selected the NO option. So I think Mr B wouldve understood 
PPI wasnt mandatory  and that he selected  to take PPI because he wanted the cover.
Ive also seen a copy of both Mr Bs signed loan agreements which I see clearly  set out the 
costs of the loans  and the Optional Credit Insurance with and without interest, separately. I 
dont think that Mr B wouldve thought the PPI wasnt optional  when thats  how its described 
in both the agreements he signed. 
And I think if Mr B hadnt agreed to take out PPI or thought  he had no choice in taking the 
PPI he wouldve questioned why it was included and described as optional within the 
Ref: DRN67755382agreement. So I think Mr B received the loan agreements  with PPI on them  because  he 
chose to take the loans with PPI.
Nationwide say the sale of the PPI on each loan was non-advised. From what I understand 
of its sales process I think this wouldve been the case. What  this means is that in its view it 
didnt recommend PPI to Mr B, it just gave  him information about PPI. This information 
needed to be given in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading so that Mr B could make 
an informed choice about buying PPI.
From what  I can see on the loan agreements I think the cost of the PPI was clear,  but I dont 
know if the other information given was good enough. In saying that I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  because I still think Mr B wouldve taken out the policies 
because at the time he took out each loan:
From  the information I have,  theres  nothing to suggest Mr B wasnt  eligible for the 
PPI. And it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made  it difficult to make  a 
successful claim.  
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable.
The PPI wouldve provided him with a useful benefit as a successful claim wouldve 
paid out on top of any savings or sick pay Mr B was entitled to and for potentially  
longer - until the loan had been repaid  in a disability claim, or for up to 12 months for 
an unemployment claim.
And from what I know about Nationwide policies they offered pro-rata refunds. So its 
unlikely Mr B wouldve  lost out if he repaid his loans back early.  
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr B. I 
think he wouldve still taken the PPI as it suited his needs and was of value  to him. 
And because of this, I dont think Mr B is any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by 
Nationwide in either of the sales of PPI that this complaint relates to.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint  against Nationwide  Building 
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6775538