K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the interest  shes being charged on her secured loan account with 
Elderbridge Limited.
background
Mrs P took out a secured  loan in 2002.  The loan was purchased from the original provider by 
Elderbridge in July 2016.
Mrs P complained to Elderbridge in July 2018.  The loan had been due to end in December,
but she was still making  payments of £50 a week under an arrangement with Elderbridge to 
clear an outstanding balance, having  fallen into arrears during  the loan term. She was 
unhappy that shed been charged interest  on these arrears. She didnt think  this was fair, 
given what Elderbridge knew of her circumstances and that it had agreed the £50 
arrangement.
Elderbridge responded to Mrs Ps complaint in September 2018. It said it hadnt  charged 
interest on the arrears   although the previous  loan owner had. It was only charging interest 
on the outstanding balance, which would  continue until the principal balance was paid off in 
full.
Mrs P referred her concerns to us and one of our investigators looked  into things. But from 
what hed seen, interest wasnt being charged on the arrears  balance  only the outstanding 
balance. And he thought  that was reasonable.
Mrs P didnt accept our investigators view. She still thought shed been unfairly charged 
additional interest on the outstanding balance. She pointed to annual statements that she 
felt specified these amounts  contradicting what Elderbridge had said.  So she asked for an 
ombudsman to review  her complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Elderbridge  
has done anything  wrong. Ill explain why.
Mrs P took out her loan in late August 2002.  Under  the terms of the agreement  she was due 
to repay  it by 180 monthly instalments. Payments were deferred  for the first five months,  with 
both parties agreeing that the loan was therefore scheduled to end after payment in 
December 2017.
As the account  has been in arrears  over the history of the term, the loan wasnt on track to 
be repaid in December 2017. At the start of that month, Mrs P had an outstanding balance  of 
around £3,800  (of which £1,442.67 were arrears, or missed payments). 
With payments having been missed, Mrs P has incurred additional interest. Shes  pointed  to 
statements that show charges for interest  on arrears. That additional  interest was 
legitimately charged during the loan term in line with the terms of the agreement (with  
interest being charged on a day-to-basis  on the outstanding balance). As a monthly  payment 
comprises contributions  to pay off the capital and the interest,  the missed payments meant 
Ref: DRN63378812the loan balance didnt fall as it should have. In turn, the balance  was higher than it ought to 
have been and Mrs P was charged  more interest.
This also means that the statements Mrs P receives  will refer to the outstanding balance 
including arrears-related  interest, as thats  accrued over the history of the loan and will be a 
component of the amount  she still owes. It doesnt, in and of itself, mean Elderbridge  
continued to charge interest on the arrears.
Elderbridge says its not charging Mrs P any additional interest on the arrears (missed  
payments) or the fee balance thats  still outstanding.  Its only charging  interest  on the 
outstanding account balance. From  what Ive seen, I think thats what  its doing. Mrs P has 
sent us a copy statement from last year. This shows that shes  incurring monthly interest  in 
the region of £23. Considering the principal balance  and the interest rate of 14.3280%, that 
amount is in line with what Id expect. The statements also show that the additional charge of 
interest on arrears ceased to be applied after Elderbridge took over the account in July 
2016. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances  I appreciate  Mrs P wants  to clear the 
outstanding balance as quickly as possible and the interest will be an additional burden, but I 
think its reasonable for some interest  to be charged until the debt is repaid.
Mrs P is also unhappy that Elderbridge didnt respond to her complaint and should  be 
reprimanded for that. Looking at the date of Mrs Ps complaint letter and Elderbridges  
response, I can see that Elderbridge sent its final response letter within  the requisite eight-
week period (albeit  towards the very end). It seems Mrs P didnt receive  this, which  is 
unfortunate. But the letter was correctly addressed and Ive no reason to suspect 
Elderbridge didnt send it. So I dont think I can fairly hold them  responsible for any 
inconvenience this caused Mrs P.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6337881