K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Cheltenham & Gloucester-branded mortgage that, until recently,  
Mr C held with Lloyds  Bank PLC. Hes unhappy that Lloyds  wouldnt provide the information  
he says he needed  to pay the mortgage off. He wants to be compensated for the interest 
hes paid whilst waiting for a redemption statement.
background
Mr C took the mortgage out in 1991  on an interest-only basis; the mortgage  term was 
25 years,  making  it due for repayment in 2016.  In 2013, Mr C made a complaint after Lloyds 
switched part of the mortgage to capital repayment  without his express  authority. That 
complaint came to us and was dealt with by one of my ombudsman  colleagues.  She agreed 
that the bank had acted  wrongly, but also noted  it had offered to put things back to how 
theyd been before, which she considered a fair outcome.  Mr C rejected the ombudsmans 
decision, so it didnt become binding on him or Lloyds.
The mortgage eventually  matured in September 2016. Lloyds says it wrote  to Mr C in 
anticipation of the maturity reminding him the balance  (a little over £13,000)  was now due for 
repayment. It didnt  hear from Mr C at this point, but Mr C continued to make monthly 
interest payments.  
In late 2017, Lloyds wrote to Mr C saying  the mortgage was now seriously overdue and that 
if it wasnt repaid, the bank would consider legal action to take possession.  Mr C 
complained; he said he had the money  available to repay the mortgage, but hadnt received 
any correspondence regarding  repaying  it until the possession threat arrived.  Lloyds issued 
a final response to the complaint in January  2018. Included in the response was information 
on how Mr C could obtain a figure  for redeeming the mortgage.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with the response  to his complaint; he continued  to conduct a dialogue 
with the bank  chiefly  through email  but also by visits  to his local branch. Some of the 
emails were addressed to the banks chief executive, but were referred back to the relevant  
department to deal with.
Matters culminated in a further final response in May 2018  which,  amongst other things, 
promised that a written  redemption  quotation  had been raised  and would follow shortly.  
Unfortunately that was overlooked, resulting in a follow-up at the end of May 2018. Mr C 
received the redemption statement shortly  afterwards,  and settled the balance in full on 
2 June 2018. He then referred his complaint to us, saying  hed like us to look again at the 
complaint from 2013.
Our adjudicator didnt  revisit the 2013 complaint; he explained that we wouldnt do that 
where an ombudsman  has already decided a complaint. Confining  his investigation to what  
had happened  since the mortgage  had matured in 2016, he wasnt persuaded Lloyds was at 
fault. He issued his findings  by email on 31 July 2018 and when he didnt hear back  from 
Mr C by the scheduled date, closed the case. 
Mr C contacted us again  in January of this year saying hed not heard anything about  the 
outcome of his complaint. After  we sent him another copy  of the adjudicators  view,  Mr C 
asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman and again said he wanted  us to look again at 
the 2013 complaint.
Ref: DRN67058672my findings
Ill make  some general points first. As a rule, we dont look at the same  complaint twice. 
Mr C brought a complaint in 2013 about  Lloyds switching part of his mortgage to capital 
repayment. My fellow ombudsman provided a remedy, and Mr C was free to accept or reject 
it; he rejected it. That was his right, but it was also his choice. The final decision ended  our 
consideration of the complaint, and Mr Cs rejection  of it meant neither he nor Lloyds was 
bound by it. Hes free to consider court action against Lloyds if he wishes,  but our 
involvement in the 2013 complaint is at an end and we wont  revisit it.
Weve no regulatory  function, so its not our role to say how businesses  should deal with 
correspondence. If Lloyds policy is to refer correspondence addressed  to its chief executive 
back down the chain, thats its prerogative. And I note Mr C says that by law, he should  be 
able to communicate directly with the addressee on a letter hes received. If he believes 
thats the law, the fitting place to have that tested is in a court  of law. But as far as my 
consideration goes Im satisfied Lloyds did nothing wrong in passing  the correspondence  on.
As far as the current complaint is concerned, Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Ill explain  at the outset that I dont intend to go into the details of each and every incident  in 
this complaint. Ours is an informal  dispute resolution service, our rules allow me to 
concentrate on what I consider to be the main  issues in the complaint. 
So if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. Rather  than get bogged down in 
minutiae, Ive taken  a step back here and looked at the broad picture. This approach  is 
consistent with what our enabling  legislation  requires  of me. It allows me to focus on the 
issues in order to decide what I think is fair and reasonable.
The starting point  here is that Mr Cs mortgage  fell due for repayment in September 2016, 
and the obligation to repay it was his and his alone. Mr C says hes been  trying to do so 
since that time, but thats not the impression I get from the evidence before me. Rather, it 
looks to me that for some time after maturity, Mr C was quite content  to make the monthly 
interest payments,  and only began to focus  on repaying the balance  after receiving Lloyds 
letter of December 2017 threatening legal action if he didnt.
That wasnt  Lloyds first letter about  the balance  being due for repayment. It had written  
twice before the expiry date to remind Mr C it was due. I appreciate Mr C says theres  no 
evidence of this, but actually  there is. Lloyds has shown us its contemporaneous contact 
history notes which records  a letter being  issued on 12 April 2016 to remind Mr C that 
maturity date was six months  away, and another on 9 August 2016 saying it was two months 
away. Im inclined to attach some weight to those records;  on balance,  Im satisfied they 
show that Lloyds  did write  those  letters  to Mr C. 
Mr C says he didnt receive them; of course  he cant  evidence that either, but then again its 
not really possible  to prove a negative. Im inclined nonetheless to take Mr C at face value 
on this. 
But if thats the case, thats a problem for Mr C to solve; not the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and not Lloyds Bank either.  It seems  that Mr Cs solution was to insist that letters be 
sent by recorded delivery;  but thats  not something  the bank was obliged to do. And on that 
Ref: DRN67058673topic, insofar as the bank did send some  recorded  delivery letters at Mr Cs request, its 
hardly fair or reasonable that he then expect it to reimburse him for lost earnings because  he 
stayed in to receive  the letters
Im satisfied Lloyds took all reasonable steps to make sure Mr C knew in 2016 that he had a 
mortgage debt to repay. That being so, I dont find that Lloyds acted unreasonably in 
December 2017  when it wrote in more  robust  terms setting out the action it might have to 
consider if the mortgage wasnt repaid. That brings me to what happened after Mr C 
received that letter.
Lloyds may not have  sent him a written redemption statement until the end of May 2018,  but 
it informed him in writing  in January  2018  how he could get a redemption quotation by other 
means. For all the emails he has sent us (many of which  were  duplicates of each other), 
once the noise around the edges has been  disregarded, Im not persuaded that Mr C was 
genuinely prevented from repaying  his mortgage  sooner  than 2 June  2018.  
In any event, if his primary concern was the interest he was paying on the outstanding  
balance, Mr C could have  mitigated that position quite easily.  He knew from his annual 
statement that his mortgage balance was a little over £13,000. At any time after 
September 2016, there was nothing  to stop Mr C paying £13,000 into the mortgage to 
eliminate the main bulk of the interest-bearing balance. He could still have had his dialogue 
with the bank about a redemption statement, but the outstanding balance accruing interest 
purposes would then have been around  £200  or so.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I make no order or award. My final decision concludes  this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6705867