K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Barbon Insurance Group Limited (trading as Homelet,  who Ill refer 
to as Homelet) asked  him an unreasonable question that he didnt feel he could  answer, 
during a call to renew his insurance  policy at a rental  property he owns.  Mr T has said the 
discussion he had with the sales person at Homelet has negatively affected his physical and 
mental health
background
On 23 May 2018 Mr T spoke to Homelet  about renewing his landlord insurance policy.  
During the call he was asked about  the roof of the block of flats where his property is 
located. He said it was a flat roof, which he says hes confirmed every year since  2004. 
However, on this occasion Homelet  wanted to know what the roof was made of. Mr T said he 
didnt have the technical knowledge to be able to answer that question. 
During the call the sales person confirmed that because the address was a middle  flat and 
not directly under the external roof, the underwriters were comfortable  that if Mr T answered 
that the materials used were  of standard construction and it was later found that the 
materials were  non-standard, then the policy would still be valid. But Mr T still refused to 
answer the question. He told the sales person  that if she wanted to know  what  the roof was 
made of she could climb a ladder and see for herself. The sales person explained that as 
Mr T was requesting the policy  for his property, he would  need to ascertain the relevant 
information he felt he needed to answer  the questions. Mr T continued to refuse to answer  
the question so Homelet was unable to incept the policy.
A month later, Mr T called Homelet  to set up the policy. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt uphold  the complaint. He said that 
once the sales  person  had become aware Mr T couldnt provide an accurate answer about 
the roof, she correctly  explained she needed  a yes or no answer,  and gave Mr T some 
suggestions as how he could find out what the roof was made  of. But Mr T wasnt  willing to 
pursue any of those  options. The sales person then contacted the underwriter to try and find 
another way forward,  but Mr T also didnt agree to that. Our investigator said he felt Homelet 
acted reasonably in these  circumstances, and although he understood Mr T didnt want  to 
answer the question  without  checking the information first, it was his responsibility to check  
the information as he was the one seeking insurance for his property.
Mr T didnt  accept our investigators view.  He said that as he was only renewing the policy  
he should have  just been able to confirm there had been no changes, and then paid the 
appropriate premium.  Mr T said he felt the appropriate response  to the question was not 
applicable rather  than yes or no. He said, because the sales person kept insisting he 
gave a yes or no answer, he began to suspect  it may be a hoax or scan  call. He also said 
the sales person  became abusive  by implying he was being stupid for not answering what 
had been established as an irrelevant  question.  He felt the call ruined his day and left him 
feeling angry, irritated and anxious.  
Mr Ts further  comments didnt change our investigators view so he requested  an 
ombudsmans decision be made on his complaint.
Ref: DRN69315622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr T has complained about,  and Ive heard that Mr T was frustrated  
at the question he was being  asked as he felt it was an unreasonable  question. However, 
hes complained  that the sales person was abusive and aggressive and says the call left him 
feeling angry, irritated and anxious.  Having listened to the call, while Im sorry to hear of the 
impact Mr T says its had on him, I dont agree that the sales person was abusive. Rather, I 
think she went out of her way to try and find a way to help Mr T be able to answer the 
question, so that he could  have the cover  put in place that he required.  Mr T told the sales 
person that if she wanted to know what the roof was made  of, she could go and see it 
herself. He also told her that she shouldnt be trying to get him to do his job for her.
The sales  person explained the relevance of the question. She said that the construction  of a 
roof was relevant to the underwriter because they would need to take into account the risk of 
water entering the property and damaging the contents. She had asked Mr T a question that 
was clear and specific  and one that he could reasonably answer  after making some 
enquiries, given  he owned the property and was seeking the insurance cover.
The sales  person also suggested several options  by which  Mr T might have been able to find 
out what the roof was made of. And she clarified that she just needed  Mr T to give an 
answer to the best of his knowledge. She passed on an assurance from the underwriter that 
if Mr T confirmed the roof was of standard construction,  but later found  out it wasnt, because 
the roof wasnt directly  over his flat, the policy would still be valid. 
Mr T was right in saying he shouldnt provide incorrect information to the sales  person. 
However, in my view the information he was being asked for could reasonably have been 
obtained by him. Ultimately it was his choice whether  or not he chose to answer the 
questions, set by the underwriter, and take out the policy. However, in making my decision 
on this complaint I have  to consider  whether Homelet have done anything  wrong  here, and I 
dont think they have.
Insurance intermediaries, such as Homelet,  are required  to ask the questions  set by the 
insurance underwriter,  to enable the underwriter  to assess  the risk associated  with the 
potential insurance  policy. The consumer is free to answer or not answer the questions as 
they see fit. And the underwriter, via their intermediary, is free to decide  not to offer a policy  
to a person who hasnt  answered all of their declaration questions. 
Having carefully listened  to the call, Im satisfied that Homelets sales person was 
professional and helpful and I disagree that she became aggressive and abusive  during the 
call. I also note that Mr T returned to Homelet  a month later to take out the policy.  
So for the reasons given in this decision,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I dont 
require Barbon  Insurance  Group  Limited to do anything further in relation  to Mr Ts 
complaint.
Ref: DRN69315623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Carolyn Harwood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6931562