complaint
Mr B and Ms P have complained about  their home insurer Allianz Insurance  Plc because  it 
had refused to settle a claim Mr B made  to it when his bicycle  was stolen.
background
Mr B and Ms P had a policy on which Mr Bs bike, at that time, had been specified,  because  
it cost over £1,000. That bike broke and when Ms P spoke to the broker it was removed from 
cover. Mr B built a new bike,  using  new parts and some from the old bike. The new bike 
wasnt specified on the policy.
In November 2018 the bicycle Mr B had built was stolen from outside  a pub where  hed left it 
chained to a concrete bench. He made a claim to Allianz. He said the bike was worth  around
£1,600 and hed had some accessories attached  to it at the time as well, theyd been  worth 
around £800. Allianz said it would settle  for the accessories  (less  a policy  excess)  but not the 
bike, as bikes worth over £1,000 arent  covered unless theyre specified.
Mr B said he wasnt aware the old bike had been removed from the cover  he thought  the 
policy still included cover for a specified bike. He felt that, at the very least, Allianz should 
pay him £1,000,  as this is what he was entitled  to for an unspecified bike.  Allianz pointed out 
that bikes worth over £1,000, by definition, had to be specified, so they couldnt  be treated as 
unspecified. It pointed  out that bikes are seen as high-risk items, and that the more costly  
they are the higher the risk is that they present. It said this is the reason it requires bikes  of a 
certain value to be specified and this would have affected the premium charged. Mr B and 
Ms P complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that the value of the bike (circa  £1,500 including  VAT and around £1,200 
excluding it) wasnt much more than the unspecified limit. He also felt the policy  wasnt clear 
enough to convey that owners of bicycles worth  more than £1,000 wouldnt be entitled to at 
least that in settlement, if their bike wasnt specified  and was stolen.  On balance he felt it was 
fair and reasonable to require Allianz to pay Mr B £1,000 in settlement for the bike (in 
addition to what it had offered  for accessories).
Allianz indicated  it disagreed  with the view.  A full response though wasnt provided.
The complaint was passed  to me and I found that I disagreed with the view set out by our 
investigator. I felt Allianz decline had been  fair and reasonable. I explained my thoughts on 
the complaint  in a provisional decision. Allianz didnt  respond. Mr B said he disagreed with 
what Id said and asked  that I reconsider the matter. 
Ref: DRN6238551K820x#14my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Most home insurance policies offer specific cover  for pedal  cycles. That is because 
usually, if they are stolen  away  from the home,  the contents cover doesnt apply and nor 
does that offered for personal possessions. Thats because contents  cover applies to 
thefts from the home and personal  possessions  applies for items you normally  wear or 
carry with you. Allianz here though does seem to accept  that bikes  fall for cover  under the 
personal possessions  cover.  The debate that has arisen centres around whether Mr Bs 
bike is covered because it wasnt specified. Ive considered then what the policy  says 
about this.
The policy gives a definition for personal possessions. The first part of the definition  
defines personal possessions as: private property  and personal items you normally  wear 
or carry. So it isnt entirely  clear that bicycles will be covered. But as I said above, there is 
no dispute from Allianz in this respect. So the clarity  or otherwise of this part of the 
definition doesnt  matter.
The next part of the term says: but not including.pedal cycles  with an individual  value 
over £l,000  (unless.[they].are specified on your policy schedule). In my view this part 
of the term is clear  bicycles  will be covered within this section  if they are a) less than 
£1,000 or b) if they are worth more than £1,000  as long as they are specified. Bicycles  that 
are valued  at more  than £1,000 and are not specified are not covered.
Im also mindful that Mr B knew previously that he had to specify  bikes worth  over £1,000. 
Im further mindful that Allianz  terms of cover would likely  have been  different if Mr B had 
told it of the bikes value. It doesnt  matter  whether that change  would have been drastic or 
only relatively minor  his failure to advise it did likely influence the cover provided.
I know Mr B has argued that the bike, and/or its constituent parts  that he used to build it, 
have depreciated  over time. But as Allianz has said the policy  is new for old. I also see 
that our investigator felt it was relevant that the replacement cost wasnt much more  than 
the policy limit but Im not persuaded  that creates a fair and reasonable reason for making 
Allianz accept the claim. For one thing it is too subjective  what  amount is considered to 
be too much, or not much more? And, importantly for me, the value wasnt a factor  that 
impacted whether or not the bike was specified. Mr B thought  it was specified. Or at least 
accepted it should have  been. Unfortunately for Mr B the fact is it wasnt.
In short  Mr B and Ms P agreed to cover based on certain terms and conditions. Mr B is 
asking Allianz to make a payment to him for an item that isnt covered by those terms 
because he and Ms P forgot to ensure the cover met their needs.  If they had ensured  the 
correct information  was provided  to Allianz  the terms of the contract between them would 
have been different. There  are no fair and reasonable  grounds,  in this instance, that I can 
see which might  allow  me to say Allianz  should pay the unspecified amount for the 
bicycle.
Ref: DRN62385513Mr B said he felt my assessment of the policy wording  was unfair as it was based  on my 
expert view, rather than his and our investigators  lay persons interpretation of the 
wording. 
When considering  whether  policy wording is unclear or not I have  to consider that from the 
point of view of a reasonable, average  person. From  that perspective,  Im satisfied the 
wording quite clearly says that bikes worth more than £1,000 arent covered unless they are 
specified. 
I also bear in mind,  if I do think there is a lack of clarity, whether that lack of clarity  misled the 
policyholder in some way. Here, Im not persuaded it did. I explained provisionally that Mr B 
knew his bike needed to be specified  and, indeed, he thought it was. So he wasnt  misled by 
Allianz policy wording  into not specifying  it in the belief  he would always  have  some  cover 
for it anyway. 
I remain of the view that Allianz didnt fail Mr B and Ms P in the circumstances here. Rather it 
fairly and reasonably applied the terms of the policy that Mr B and Ms P had agreed to. 
Having reviewed matters  Im not minded  to change my provisional  findings and they now 
form part of this final decision.
my decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms P 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6238551