K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), mis-sold him 
the PPI.
background
Mr C bought  the policy in 2008 at the same  time as taking  out a credit card. He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy over the internet.
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident and sickness only. It offered to repay 10% of 
Mr Cs credit card balance  in the event  of a successful claim for accident  or sickness.  And it 
would repay  the outstanding balance, up to £15,000,  under the life section  of the policy.  At 
the time,  it cost 61p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with our adjudicator and so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  And having  done so, I dont  uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Barclays has given me examples of the pages  from the online application it thinks Mr C 
would have completed, and they show he would have been asked to choose if he wanted 
the policy and select from different  options on screen, one of which  was to decline the PPI. 
Without any other persuasive evidence, I have no reason to doubt that these were the screens 
that Mr C would have seen and completed online. And Mr C has only taken life, accident and 
sickness cover  he hasnt taken out cover for unemployment. So I think  its likely Mr C would 
have seen these  options when applying  for the credit card and that the PPI was added as a 
result of him selecting the cover.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide for himself if it 
was right for him.
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And is seems  like it could 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about  
the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
Ref: DRN61833522But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said  including what he has said about being  self-
employed and that the cover was severely restricted as a result. But Mr C didnt take out 
cover for unemployment, under which there are specific terms for self-employed  people. He 
only took out the accident and sickness cover  which  would have paid out regardless of his 
employment status. As he was self-employed Mr C wouldnt receive any sick pay so this 
policy would have covered his repayments on his card for up to 12 months if he was too ill 
to work. And it would have enabled him to protect any savings  he may have had for another 
purpose or use them to cover other  essential living expenses. So this point doesnt change  
my decision.
my final decision
I dont think that the PPI policy was mis-sold   so it follows that Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6183352