K820x#14complaint
Miss C instructed Allay  Claims Ltd to make  a claim for mis-sold PPI on her behalf.  The claim 
was successful and Miss C paid Allays  fees.
background
Miss C has complained that Allay didnt cancel her claim when she asked  them to. She had 
been seriously ill and, when she was able to, she dealt with her post  including  Allays bill 
which she paid. Miss C feels  that she shouldnt have done this, and believes Allay  ignored 
her cancellation  request  so they could  charge  their fee. She wants the fee she paid to be 
refunded to her.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  who found that Allay had 
provided a reasonable service.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigator. She says that I cancelled within Allay Claims' 
cancellation policy timescale, have proved the form was posted, had no reason to chase the 
cancellation, I missed postal communication because I was seriously ill, and paid the bill in 
full in complete  error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It is not disputed  that Miss C instructed Allay to make a claim on 18 October 2018. Allay did 
this and the claim was successful in January 2019.
I have seen Miss Cs cancellation  request. This is a cancellation form which  is signed  and 
dated 23 October 2018. Miss Cs partner has also stamped this form with cancelled  23 Oct 
2018. Miss C says that this was then posted first class to Allay. While I dont doubt that, to 
the best of Miss Cs knowledge, the form was posted, I havent seen anything to show  that 
Allay received it.
As Miss C sent the cancellation  form by normal first class post, there is no proof of postage 
or proof of receipt. Allays  case notes  show the work they did on the claim, but dont  show 
that they received the cancellation form. Because of this, I cannot say that Allay ignored the 
cancellation form. Its more likely  that the form was never received.
Allay also charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based  upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means that any work  done on any unsuccessful  claims would be 
done for free. Where  a claim  was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement.
Just because Allays fee is higher than the value of the work they have done  for Miss C 
doesnt make their fee unjustified. Because Allay did the work that led to the claim being 
successful, I cant say that they should  refund this fee.
Ref: DRN67038912my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I agree that Allay Claims Ltd provided Miss C with a 
reasonable service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6703891