K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he acquired on finance with Specialist Motor  
Finance Limited  (SMF), he wants to reject  it.
background
In April 2018 Mr A took out a hire purchase agreement with SMF for £10,490 (without  a 
deposit) to buy a used  car, which was nearly five years old and had covered approximately 
41,501 miles. 
Within a month of getting the car Mr A reported that he was having problems with it being 
filled with smoke. In June  2018 the car broke down and the roadside recovery report noted  
that black smoke was coming  from the exhaust  and the exhaust  gas recirculation (EGR) 
valve was faulty.
Mr A took his car to a main dealer. The garage ran diagnostic tests and confirmed faults with 
the EGR  valve and the engine control unit (ECU). Mr A complained to SMF about the quality 
of the car.
In a response to Mr As complaint SMF explained that the warranty  company and the 
supplying dealership had agreed to cover the cost for the EGR and ECU repairs. 
The EGR was replaced and the ECU was updated  at no cost to Mr A in July 2018.  Due to a 
delay in the dealership  paying the invoice and a problem being found with the injectors 
Mr As car has remained in the garage. SMF arranged for an independent report  on the car 
in October 2018,  this confirmed the injector fault and noted that the fault was most  likely to 
have been present at the point of sale. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said he didnt think  the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. He recommended SMF cancel the agreement,  allow 
Mr A to reject the car, remove the agreement from his credit  file and refund all repayments  
made from 19 June 2018.
SMF disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
I let both parties know that I initially agreed that the complaint  should  be upheld.  I said in 
addition to what the investigator  had recommended, SMF  should also pay for any storage 
charges due, repay Mr A his insurance and road tax costs for the car since  19 June  2018,  
along with interest  and pay Mr A £350 compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr A agreed with what Id said. SMF  didnt, it maintained that Mr A didnt have  the right to 
reject the car.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  the complaint.
The relevant  legislation   the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that when Mr A 
acquired the car, the supplier (SMF) had a responsibility to make sure the car was of 
Ref: DRN68513412satisfactory quality, taking into account things like its description,  age, price  and mileage,. 
The issue  is whether the car has any outstanding  faults that are likely to have  been  present 
or developing at the point of sale, as opposed to natural and inevitable  wear and tear.
Following the repair  of the ECU  and EGR, an independent report dated 15 October 2018 
confirmed an outstanding fault with the injectors. The engineer  said the problem  with the 
injectors was more likely to have been present or developing  at the point of sale,  given the 
cars mileage and age. Im satisfied this means  the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr A and that SMF are responsible  for this. SMF do not dispute this, but 
maintain that Mr A doesnt  have the right to reject the car. It wants  the opportunity  to repair  
the injector fault, as this was raised separately from the initial  ECU/EGR  faults.
Under the CRA Mr A can ask SMF  to fix the car, but if that repair  is unsuccessful, he then 
has the right to reject it. Its important to note that the CRA gives  one right to repair the car, 
not a separate right to repair each  individual fault.
Mr A reported the problem with the car smoking,  within a month  of getting the car. Given  
how quickly this problem  developed, the age, mileage and price of the car, I  think the 
ECU/EGR faults were more likely to have  been  present or developing when Mr A got the car. 
These faults were repaired, but the injectors remain  faulty.  
The ECU/EGR repairs were arranged  by the warranty company and the dealership,  however 
SMF were  aware  of this and put forward this offer in response to Mr As complaint. So Im 
satisfied that it has already had the opportunity to repair  the car. As the initial repair  wasnt 
successful and the injector problem is outstanding,  I think SMF should now allow Mr A to 
reject the car and should cancel the agreement, without  any further payment due.
I also think SMF should put Mr A back in the position  he wouldve been in, had he not taken 
out the agreement. Mr A has been  without his car since  19 June 2018 and he has since  
entered another finance agreement for a new car, as a result he has been paying two sets of 
car insurance premiums  and tax instalments. In the circumstances I think  its fair for SMF to 
refund him all his monthly instalments paid for the car since 19 June  2018,  along with 
interest, to reflect his loss of usage. Mr A got very little use of the car, so I think  it would be 
reasonable for SMF to repay any insurance and road tax costs paid for the car since it has 
been in the garage (subject  to Mr A providing  proof  of these payments), along with interest. I 
also think it should remove any record of the agreement from his credit file.
Mr A has told us that he wasnt given a courtesy car whilst the car has been in the garage;  
he has told us how inconvenient this has been.  I think this has caused Mr A significant stress  
and inconvenience.  I think SMF should pay him £350 compensation to reflect this. I also 
think it would  be fair for SMF to pay any storage costs that may be payable.  
Ref: DRN68513413my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint and I require Specialist Motor Finance  Limited  to;
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
remove the agreement and any associated information from Mr As credit file
arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr A
pay any storage costs that may have accrued
refund  all monthly instalments made by Mr A under the agreement from 19 June 
2018*
refund  Mr A all road tax payments for the car made since  19 June 2018 (subject to 
him providing proof)*
refund  Mr A all insurance  premiums  paid for the car since  19 June 2018 (again 
subject to Mr A providing proof) *
pay Mr A £350 compensation to reflect the stress and inconvenience  caused 
* SMF should pay 8% simple interest on these payments from the date that Mr A made  them 
until he gets them back. If SMF thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct 
income tax from that interest it should tell him how much its taken off. It should  also give him 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6851341