K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws estate  complains that Phoenix Life Limited did not pay all of the annuity payments  
due to Mr W.
background
In 2003, Mr W took out an annuity payable annually in arrears,  paying £11,627.11.  This was 
backdated to 2001 (when  Mr W turned 75). No spouses annuity or guaranteed period  was 
attached to the annuity. 
On 30 June 2003, Mr W was sent a letter  which said: 
Please find enclosed a revised personal quotation based on the purchase  funds of 
£106,545.08 received  from [name  of ceding scheme] which  will now provide you with 
an annuity of £11,627.11 per annum. 
The pension payment dates are linked to the date of commencement  of the policy, 
which in this instance must be on your 75th birthday. I regret that it will therefore not 
be possible  to change  the pension payment dates under your policy, which will be as 
follows:
The first payment will be made in the next few days,  in respect  of the initial  
proportionate amount  due to cover the period from 5 November 2001 to 1 November 
2002. Subsequent payments will be made on 1 November each year, in respect of 
the previous 12 months.
The compulsory purchase annuity membership certificate, signed  by the original annuity 
provider on 2 July 2003, said, in relation to annuities  payable  in arrears, amongst other 
things: 
3.1.4 The last instalment  of Pension  which we will pay is that due immediately 
before the Pension payment period ends in accordance with Condition  2. We will not 
make a proportionate  final payment in respect  of the period after that date up to the 
date of Your death unless there is a Guaranteed Payment Period in which case 
Condition 2.1.2 or 2.2.2  as appropriate  will apply. 
And Condition  2 provided, in so far as relevant: 
2.1.1 We will pay the Non-protected Rights portion of the Pension (if any) in 
instalments starting  from the Commencement  Date  throughout Your lifetime until 
Your death. The frequency of instalments is shown in the Schedule.  
The compulsory purchase annuity policy schedule also signed  by the original provider on 
2 July 2003 confirms that the company will pay the annuity set out in the schedule  in line 
with the policy conditions overleaf. 
The policy conditions state: 
1.The Annuity  shall be payable to the Annuitant  in instalments throughout the lifetime 
of the Annuitant, at the annualised rate shown in the Schedule  hereto (increased, if 
Ref: DRN65253682applicable, in accordance  with Condition 3), the last instalment being that due on or 
immediately prior to the death of the Annuitant. 
2.If the Annuity  is shown as payable in arrear,  the first instalment shall be payable on 
the first day of the calendar month immediately following the Commencement Date, if 
the annuity is payable monthly, or on the first day of the calendar month three, six or 
twelve months after the calendar  month  in which the Commencement Date  falls, if 
quarterly, half-yearly  or annually respectively; subsequent instalments shall fall due 
on the first day of the calendar month at the corresponding interval  thereafter.  If the 
Annuity is shown as payable  in advance,  additional instalment  shall be calculated as 
the corresponding, equal proportion of the annualised  amount, except in the case of 
the first instalment which shall be proportioned  on the basis of the exact number of 
days from the Commencement Date to the relevant payment date. 
In 2006, the annuity was transferred from the original provider to Phoenix Life following a 
merger. It was confirmed that the terms of the annuity would not change as a result  of this.
Mr W received  his last annuity  payment on 1 November 2016, sadly  he passed  away in June 
2017.
In September  2017, following notification that Mr W had passed,  Phoenix Life wrote  to the 
executor of Mr Ws estate confirming that all payments  had been  suspended and no further 
benefits were due to Mr Ws estate. 
Mr Ws estate  wrote  to Phoenix Life asserting that the terms of the annuity meant that it 
owed a further instalment for the period between November 2016  and Mr Ws death. 
Unsatisfied with Phoenix Lifes  responses  Mr Ws estate remained of the view that a further 
instalment was due to be paid. 
The business treated this as a complaint, it did not agree  with the point  raised, on 
7 November 2017, it said: 
In the original policy documents, I agree  that on the second page of the personal  
quotation we state, The annuity will continue  throughout  your lifetime. However, the 
covering letter, dated 30 June 2003,  also confirms [Mr Ws name]  selected  to have 
his annuity paid annually in arrears  with a payment due on 1 November each year. 
This means  the last payment due, within his lifetime,  was on 1 November 2016.  
Therefore, we are correct  to say that there  are no further benefits payable  under this 
policy. 
It is also worth noting that the payment frequency of an annuity has an impact  on the 
amount payment [sic]. For example, if [Mr Ws name] had chosen an annuity payable 
monthly in advance then his annual amount would have been less than the amount 
payable annualy in arrears.
A few more  letters were  exchanged. Unhappy with Phoenix Lifes responses, Mr Ws estate 
referred its concerns  to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should  not be upheld, in 
summary she concluded that: 
Ref: DRN65253683The terms of the annuity stated that Phoenix  Life would pay the annuity  instalments 
that fall due up until the annuitants  death and nothing after that. 
The last payment due before Mr W passed  was that paid in November 2016, no 
further instalments  were due at the point Mr W passed. 
The next payment  was not due until November 2017 and the terms specified that no 
proportional payments would be made to cover  the period  between the payment of 
the last instalment and the annuitants  death. 
Whilst she understood that Mr Ws estate believed that the policy terms relied  on by 
Phoenix Life were in conflict with the terms it had referred to and which  were  the 
terms that should be relied on, she didnt think the term that Mr Ws estate  had 
pointed to did give rise to an obligation  on Phoenix Life to pay a further instalment. 
Mr Ws estate  disagreed,  in summary,  it submitted that: 
The personal quotation, policy schedule and policy conditions formed  the basis  of the 
original providers offer  there was no reference  within these to the terms that 
Phoenix Life is now seeking to rely on. 
It is these  documents alone which should  be relied on and only these  formed  part of 
the offer Mr W accepted. 
Phoenix Life could  not locate the policy originally and has at no point produced  the 
original policy documents. 
Phoenix Life now seeks to rely on different terms which  have no basis  and are 
irreconcilable with the terms held within the offer which Mr W actually accepted and 
which make  no reference  to a secondary  set of policy conditions. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached the case has been passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
Mr Ws estate  is adamant that Phoenix  Life is in breach  of the terms of the annuity as it had 
a contractual duty to pay Mr W an income up until his death.  It is my role to fairly and 
reasonably decide if the business has done  anything wrong in respect of the individual  
circumstances of the complaint made  and  if I find that the business has done something 
wrong  award  compensation for any material loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by 
the complainant.
Ref: DRN65253684There is limited  paperwork from the point of sale but there does not appear  to be any dispute 
that the annuity was payable annually in arrears.  The key dispute is whether or not, under 
the terms of the annuity, Phoenix  Life was due to make a proportional payment for the period 
of November 2016 to June 2017. 
I can understand that the wording of some parts of the terms, in particular that the last 
payment is to be paid on or immediately before the annuitants death, may seem  to be 
irreconcilable with the last payment being  made some seven months before the annuitants  
death. But, in this instance, I dont  think that this means that this term gives rise to an 
obligation on Phoenix Life to make  a proportional payment.
The conditions quoted from the above  documents aimed to cover the terms of different types  
of annuities, such as those with a guaranteed  period and those  paid in advance.  This means  
that the wording  of some of the general  terms is broad  and aims  to cover various scenarios.
Looking at the paperwork provided, I am not persuaded  that Phoenix  Life was required to 
make a proportional payment for the seven months from November 2016 until Mr Ws death. 
Particularly in light of the clause in the member certificate which  provides:
3.1.4 The last instalment  of Pension  which we will pay is that due immediately 
before the Pension payment period ends in accordance with Condition  2. We will not 
make a proportionate  final payment in respect  of the period after that date up to the 
date of Your death unless there is a Guaranteed Payment Period in which case 
Condition 2.1.2 or 2.2.2  as appropriate  will apply. 
Mr Ws estate  has disputed the application  of the terms  in this document. It is not unusual for 
a number of documents to be issued when  an annuity  is taken  out. I dont think  that, in this 
instance, one supersedes  the other and I have not seen  anything that would lead me to 
conclude that the terms of the membership certificate provided do not apply. 
In any case, whilst I understand  Mr Ws estates concerns, I do not think that the terms are in 
conflict. I think the term it has quoted from the policy schedule  means  that the annuity is 
payable up until the annuitants death and that the final payment is the last instalment due 
before (or on) their death  in this case, the last payment due was that of November 2016.  
I understand that Mr Ws estate remains unhappy with the responses it received  from the 
business but I am not persuaded that Phoenix Life was incorrect to say that no proportional 
payment is due. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws estate complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Ws estate to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6525368