K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that CETA Insurance Limited mis-sold his residential  let emergency 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr D first bought a policy through CETA in 2014 and renewed it each year. Prior to this hed 
been insured via a different broker  who Ill refer to as L. When L was unable  to continue to 
provide cover, it provided  Mr D with a link to CETAs website so he could get a new quote. 
In 2018 the insurer of Mr Ds policy turned down a claim  he made for a contribution to his 
replacement boiler.  The insurer said there  was no contribution offered under the policy. As a 
result, Mr D complained that CETA had mis-sold  his policy, because he said he would 
always have wanted  boiler contribution cover.
CETA didnt  think the policy was mis-sold  so Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator said the policy documents clearly showed that the boiler  wasnt  covered. So, he 
didnt think CETA had mis-sold the policy. 
Mr D still thought the policy had been  mis-sold  and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only going  to comment  on the actions of CETA as the broker of the 
policy. If Mr D is also unhappy about  the insurers decision to turn down his claim he can 
complain about  that separately.
I understand that Mr D bought his policy online after being provided with a link from L. When  
selling his policy in this way CETA needed to provide  Mr D with information  that was clear, 
fair and not misleading to enable him to decide  if the policy was suitable  for him. 
Ive looked at Mr Ds policy  documents and theres nothing  that says boiler  contribution cover 
is included under the policy. I appreciate  this is something Mr D had on previous policies 
hed bought through L. But I dont hold CETA  responsible  for not pointing  out that this wasnt 
on his new policy. I say that because Mr D bought the policy online and the policy  
documents clearly  set out whats covered under the policy in a short  document.  
I havent seen  anything to persuade me CETA  told Mr D the boiler  was covered. Or that it 
provided him with information in a way that wasnt clear and fair, or in a way that misled him. 
So, while I appreciate this isnt the outcome he was hoping  for, I dont think CETA mis-sold 
Mr Ds policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN61056422Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6105642