K821x#15complaint
Mr T says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 13 payday  loans  Quick Quid provided to Mr T between  March 2015 
and October 2016.  Mr T borrowed  amounts ranging  between £200 and £650. The loans 
were to be repaid  in three instalments. From what  I can see, Mr T repaid  all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ts complaint in part and thought the loans from loan three  
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN64174612Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Quick Quid asked Mr T for information  about his income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr T said he earned around £1,917 a month, and his expenditure was £525  
for all his loans except the last when it was £1,075.
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time and his history with Quick Quid, I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. I think proportionate checks would have shown that Mr T could afford to 
repay the loans  sustainably.  So I cant say that Quick Quid was wrong to approve these two 
loans. 
But, as our adjudicator  explained, proportionate checks  for loans three to five would most 
likely have shown that Mr T:
Was having difficulties  in managing his finances;
He had taken  out several  loans with another lender  and their repayments were due;
He would be unlikely  to be able to sustainably repay loans three to five. 
So I think Quick Quid was wrong to approve  loans three to five.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending  history with Mr T, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Quick Quid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
six. I say this because:
By loan six, Mr T had borrowed five loans  seven months. I think  the pattern  of his 
borrowing showed that he had become reliant  on short-term loans and the repayments 
were unsustainable  for him. 
From  loan six onwards Mr T was provided with a new loan without significant breaks 
after settling a previous one. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not Mr T was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan 
was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ts indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN64174613Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quick  Quid.  Loan  13 was 
taken out 18 months after Mr Ts first. And it was for the same amount. Mr T had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr T lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
The sheer number  of loans and deferrals  was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ts ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 6 to 13 and Quick Quid  should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
Refund all interest  and charges Mr T paid on loans 3 to 13;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Remove any negative  information about loans three to five from Mr Ts credit file;
The number of loans  taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 13 should be removed from Mr Ts credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ts 
complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) should pay Mr T compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6417461