K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc hasnt administered her credit card accounts correctly. 
As a result shes not received  benefits  shes entitled  to.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 11 December 2019. A copy of this is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In it I set out the background to this complaint,  
and I explained  why I thought it should be upheld. I said that I thought TSB should pay 
Miss M an additional £200 compensation to resolve  this complaint, taking the total amount of 
compensation to £350.
Miss M accepted my provisional  decision.  But TSB didnt. It acknowledged it could have 
handled the situation better and said this is why it had agreed to our investigators  
recommendation of a total of £250 compensation. But that it feels this amount is more  than 
sufficient. It said it hadnt  been aware  Miss M had intended to use her Avios points for flights  
and felt it was unfair I had used this as justification to award her further compensation. And 
that the matter  could  have been resolved sooner if Miss M had spoken to Avios  again  earlier. 
It also advised that TSB cannot issue Avios statements.
  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know TSB will be disappointed,  but Ive reached  the same  conclusions I did in my 
provisional decision.
To clarify, my recommendation of compensation is not based on the fact Miss M hadnt been 
able to use her Avios  points for flights. In my provisional decision I said that as she now has 
access to the Avios  points  to use for future purchases, I didnt think  it would be fair for me to 
ask TSB to reimburse the cost of her earlier flights.  
Nor was my recommendation based  on the full length  of time these issues persisted.  In my 
provisional decision I noted Miss M had continued to experience problems with her account  
balance after TSB had told Avios of the points shed  accrued, but said that I didnt think TSB 
could resolve this point.
TSB paid Miss M £150 by way of compensation and expenses for the delay in it responding  
to her complaint. But at this point it also told her it couldnt be of any assistance with her 
query about her Avios points. Although it had arranged for the missing  points to be credited 
to her Avios account, it made a mistake  not letting Miss M know about  this. And over six 
months passed before she was made aware  of the action itd taken. Had TSB explained this 
sooner, Ive no doubt some of the considerable inconvenience and frustration she 
experienced as a result of these problems  could have been avoided.  And I still feel it would 
be fair for TSB to pay Miss M a further  £200 compensation to acknowledge this.
Ref: DRN60919982I appreciate TSB is not able to issue  Miss M statements showing her actual Avios  account 
balance. Its told us it has asked Avios to issue a new statement to Miss M, which  is helpful.  
But to be clear what I have asked it to do is to issue  a breakdown of the points she has 
accrued through her monthly spending  with TSB,  so that she can be assured her Avios 
account balance  is correct. TSB has been able to provide our service with a lot of this 
information, but we do not have statements for recent months. And I think  it would be helpful 
if TSB could  collate this information for Miss M so that she does not have to go back through 
her individual bank  statements  to find it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should;
 pay Miss M a total of £350 to recognise  the inconvenience,  trouble  and upset 
caused by its poor service. 
 provide Miss M with a breakdown of the number of Avios  points she has accrued 
through her spending with TSB to date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February  2020
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60919983complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc hasnt administered  her credit card accounts correctly. As a 
result shes not received  benefits shes entitled to.
background
Miss M took out two credit  cards  with TSB in 2007. She was supposed to receive  Avios points for 
eligible purchases  made with these cards. One of the credit card accounts  was closed in September 
2018. The other  remains  active.
In August 2018 Miss M complained that shed never seen any confirmation of the total number  of 
Avios points shed accumulated. TSB told her to contact Avios directly. But when she did she found 
her balance  was zero. Avios  told Miss M shed need to speak to TSB about this, as TSB hadnt 
correctly linked her credit cards to her Avios account.
Miss M complained to TSB.  TSB offered  her £100  compensation to acknowledge that it took longer 
that it shouldve done to respond to her complaint, and a further  £50 to cover expenses she would 
have incurred  contacting it about the matter. But it said that it couldnt  assist her any further and 
reiterated shed need to contact Avios.
Miss M wasnt  happy with this response so she brought her complaint to our service. To put things 
right she wants TSB to ensure shes credited  with her the Avios points.  And to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience  shes  suffered. 
When our investigator  contacted  TSB it showed her evidence that the missing Avios points had been  
added to Miss Ms account in September 2018. It said it was unfortunate Miss M hadnt been notified 
of this. And that it had now arranged  for a statement to be sent to her.
Our investigator concluded that the fact TSB had now been able to correct Miss Ms Avios points 
balance meant it couldve helped  her sooner. She recommended that TSB should pay Miss M a 
further £100  compensation  for the additional inconvenience she experienced trying  to resolve this 
matter. And asked it to provide Miss M with a breakdown of the Avios points  that should have 
accumulated from the spending on her credit card accounts.
TSB agreed to this. But Miss M said she wouldnt accept less than £1,000 compensation.  She also 
told us that she still couldnt see any Avios points in her account. And said shes lost out financially as 
a result of having to pay for flights she could have otherwise have spent  them on.
The case was been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear something went  wrong here and Miss M didnt receive the Avios points she shouldve  
accrued through  spending  on her credit cards. 
TSB has provided us with a copy  of the terms and conditions for her credit card accounts. I can see 
these state  that its Miss Ms responsibility to check her monthly statements  and notify it if she doesnt 
agree with the Avios points  collected during that period. I appreciate Miss M has made  reference to 
the length  of time this problem has been on-going  when setting out how much  compensation  shed 
like TSB to pay her to resolve this complaint. But I havent seen any evidence  she told TSB her 
statements werent showing an accumulated points total prior to August 2018. 
Ref: DRN60919984Like our investigator,  I think its clear  TSB couldve given Miss M a more  helpful  response when  she 
first raised this complaint.  Its shown us it subsequently arranged for 14,000  Avios points  to be added  
to her account in September 2018,  reflecting the amount shed earned since shed taken out the two 
credit cards. TSB has agreed it should have told Miss M about this. As far as I can see she didnt 
know this had happened until April 2019, after our service began  investigating. I can appreciate it 
mustve been  very frustrating for Miss M when  TSB told her they werent able to resolve  this matter. 
And I understand she spent a lot of time trying to correct the issue.  
TSB offered Miss M compensation for the length of time it took to respond to her complaint. But, for 
the reasons Ive outlined above, I also think it should compensate her for the poor service it gave her 
when it did respond. Our investigator  suggested  TSB should pay Miss M a further £100 compensation  
for the additional inconvenience she experienced. But Im asking it to pay her a further £100 on top of 
this. In total I think it would be reasonable for TSB to pay Miss M a total of £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  by its poor service. To be clear that is the £150 its already credited to her 
account, plus a further £200.  
I can see this issue has continued to cause Miss M frustration throughout  this year.  Shes provided us 
with screenshots  to show that the Avios points TSB said it had now credited to her account still 
werent visible  to her. 
I asked our investigator to explain  to Miss M that I didnt think TSB could resolve this point.  And that 
Id seen evidence Avios had said shed  need to contact it again directly. 
Miss Ms told us that shes since spoken to Avios and its confirmed it can now update her points 
balance. And TSB says its provided Avios with further updates about points shes accrued since 
September 2018. Its also shown  us evidence of points  shes earnt up until September 2019.  Though  I 
appreciate that if Miss M has used her credit card since then its likely  shes also accrued further 
points now. 
Miss M likely has access to her account statements  which detail the number of Avios points earnt 
each month.  But for the avoidance of any doubt, and so she can be assured  that her balance is up to 
date, TSB should also issue her with a breakdown  of the number of Avios points she has accrued  to 
date as I cant  see that an accumulated total is shown on the latest details weve been provided.
Miss M has complained that she wasnt able to use these Avios points previously. And has shown us 
evidence shes paid for flights she says she would otherwise have used them for. I appreciate why 
shes so frustrated about  this. But as she now has access to the Avios  points to use for future 
purchases, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask TSB to reimburse her for the cost of these flights. 
Whilst I appreciate  she wasnt  able to use the points as soon as she wouldve  liked, she is able to 
benefit from them  now.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that TSB Bank plc should pay Miss M a total of £350 to resolve this 
complaint. It should also provide her with a breakdown  of the number of Avios points she has accrued 
to date.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6091998