K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax  (Halifax)  mis-sold  her a 
packaged bank  account (PBA)  in June 2010.  She says she was told that she had to take 
the account if she wanted to avoid paying  overdraft  charges, but that she has in fact been  
paying charges  nonetheless. She also says shes never used the other benefits of the 
account.
background
Mrs M opened  a fee free account with Halifax in May 2010. In June 2010, she then upgraded 
it to an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). At that time it cost £12.50 per month 
and came with a range of benefits.  The key ones were worldwide family travel insurance; 
breakdown cover; mobile phone insurance;  home emergency cover; and a fee- and interest-
free overdraft of £300.
Its not clear how Mrs M upgraded the account. She says that she cant remember,  but also 
indicated it may have been over the phone. Halifax cant  be certain, although  there is some  
suggestion that it may have been online.
When Mrs M complained to Halifax, it didnt accept  that it had done anything wrong. So she 
brought her case to this service. Having considered  the evidence, the adjudicator  didnt think 
the URCA had been mis-sold, so didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs M doesnt accept that and 
has asked for an ombudsman to look at her case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
considering the sale of packaged bank accounts on our website, which  everyone  can read. 
Ive kept that in mind when deciding Mrs Ms complaint,  which Im not upholding,  and Ill 
explain why.
Mrs M hasnt  said that she was told she had to upgrade to get an overdraft  just to avoid 
paying charges  for it. Given that, and the fact that she had a fee free account before the 
URCA, I think  that she knew she had a choice about  whether to upgrade  or not. The 
question is whether Halifax misled her about the overdraft  benefit and the impact  it would 
have on the charges she was paying.
Was Mrs M misled about the overdraft  benefit, or did Halifax charge her incorrectly for using 
her overdraft?
It seems  there has been some slight confusion during the course of this investigation about 
what Mrs Ms agreed overdraft limit was, and the relationship  between  that and the URCA 
benefit. Its important  to first explain that there  is a difference  between that agreed limit and 
the £300 interest and fee-free element that came  with the URCA. So there is no automatic 
entitlement to a £300 overdraft  but rather, the removal of fees and charges up to that 
amount but only on an agreed, planned  overdraft.
Ref: DRN60129032Halifax has given us some information about how Mrs Ms agreed overdraft limit has 
changed over the years,  as follows:
7 June 2010 £100
26 June 2010 £150
12 January 2018 £200
26 January 2018 £150
It also looks like between 2010 and 2018 Mrs M applied about three times to increase her 
overdraft limit, but that was declined.
So I can see that, provided she stayed within her agreed limit, Mrs M should  not have been 
charged any fees to use her overdraft, as it was always lower than the £300 benefit that 
came with the URCA.
Mrs M has vehemently told us that she did this  that she never  exceeded her agreed limit. 
But Ive looked  at a selection of statements, and I can see that isnt the case. For example, 
in August 2010, her overdraft reached £161.82. That is clearly  above the agreed limit of 
£150, and resulted in additional  charges of £20. In December 2010, the overdraft reached 
£166.91. In April 2012, it reached £170.96.  I can only see that overdraft charges have been 
applied to her account  when  she exceeded  her agreed limit. When she stayed within  it, the 
only charge is the account fee.
I also think its likely that Mrs M knew what her agreed limit was, and that she took steps to 
try and ensure  she stayed  within it. I say that because I can see what  may be a pattern of 
transactions where, when the balance  reaches  around £149 overdrawn, a small deposit  is 
made by a third party. I accept I have only seen a sample of statements, and so it may be a 
coincidence, but it was certainly  noticeable.  This suggests to me that Mrs M was working 
hard to avoid going over her agreed limit, but sometimes couldnt avoid that. So I dont think 
she had been  led to believe that having  the URCA meant there would never  be additional 
overdraft charges  otherwise why would  she make any efforts to stay within that limit?
It may be that shed  hoped to be able to agree a higher  overdraft limit with Halifax,  and so 
get more benefit out of the £300  URCA benefit.  But the two things are separate,  and the 
evidence Ive seen  shows that Halifax was charging Mrs M amounts  that were  in line with the 
terms and conditions and the agreed overdraft limit.
Were the other benefits  of the URCA potentially useful to Mrs M? And was she given enough 
information about them?
As set out in the background section of this decision, the URCA came with a range of 
insurance benefits in addition  to the overdraft arrangements. Mrs M says she has never  
made use of them, which  Halifax accepts. However, not needing to use insurance products 
does not mean that they were mis-sold.  The majority of insurance  policies  are never claimed  
on, but that is generally because the problem they were  designed  to protect  against  hasnt 
happened.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mrs M couldnt  have  made  use of at least  some of these 
benefits. She says she already had cover  elsewhere, but it was for her to decide  whether 
she wanted to cancel any other cover she had, or not. Halifax  says that she registered at 
least seven mobile  handsets,  and Mrs M acknowledged this in her testimony to us. So its 
clear that she wanted to rely on at least one of the insurance benefits, and took the 
Ref: DRN60129033necessary steps  to ensure she could  claim if she needed to. I can also see evidence on her 
statements of her buying petrol, suggesting  the breakdown cover could also have  been  
valuable.
I accept its quite possible that Halifax didnt tell Mrs M everything about each of the benefits 
in a clear,  straightforward  way. But that doesnt mean I should automatically uphold  her 
complaint. I would additionally need to think that a lack of information has caused her to miss 
out  that is, that she wouldnt have agreed to the PBA if shed known more about it.
That isnt the case here.  Shes confirmed that she has registered for at least  one of the 
benefits, and that she was aware  of the cost. I havent seen anything which leads me to 
conclude that if shed had more or better information  about  the PBA she would have 
declined to take it. So she hasnt lost out in that way.
It may be that, with hindsight, Mrs M feels she hasnt got the value out of this account  that 
shed hoped, and feels its been a bit of a waste of money. But that doesnt  necessarily mean  
it was mis-sold or that Halifax actually did anything wrong. Ive been given no evidence to 
suggest that she couldnt have used the benefits  the account  came with had she needed  to. 
And the fact that she repeatedly registered mobile  handsets shows that she understood at 
least the key information  about how one of them worked. So I cant see that she has lost out, 
other than by paying for insurance  products she hasnt needed to claim on.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Bank  of Scotland Plc 
doesnt need to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019. 
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6012903