K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc wont refund two transactions made with her debit 
card which she says she didnt make or authorise. Ms W also says HSBC  unfairly placed a 
default on her credit  file. 
background
Ms W had a current  account with HSBC.  She says that two fraudulent transactions totalling  
£8,454.10 were made from her HSBC current account on 5 and 10 July 2017.  
The relevant  transactions  were:
date activity Amount
05/07/2017 Debit card payment to company C £8,364.10
10/07/2017 Debit card payment to company C £90.00
On 14 July 2017, Ms W called HSBC  to say she didnt make  the disputed  transactions.  She 
explained that she hadnt authorised anyone else to use her card. And said she was still in 
possession of her bank card, which she normally kept in her purse  inside her handbag.  
Ms W said she suspected someone  at her work had carried out the transactions.  And she 
confirmed that shed only ever used her home  and work computers to make online 
transactions, which were  both password  protected.  She also told HSBC  that shed  previously 
given her card details to company C for another transaction.
HSBC investigated  and didnt accept Ms Ws disputed transaction  claim. It said Ms W had 
authorised the transactions or made them herself because:
the transactions were unusual for an unknown third party fraudster to make as 
normally purchases towards goods  or services would be made
the time difference between  the transactions was also unusual - 5 days. Normally 
when a card is compromised  it would be used as fully as possible to maximise the 
amounts undertaken and to limit the possibility for the customer to notice  and report 
the matter to the bank
Ms Ws genuine  card and unique Verified by Visa (VbV)  password associated with 
the card was used  for both disputed transactions  made to company C 
Ms W hadnt  provided any plausible explanation as to how her bank card and VbV 
passwords were compromised
the device  and IP address used  to make the disputed transaction  of £8,364.10 to 
company C matched  the device and IP address used to make  an undisputed 
transaction on 23 June  2017  
the device  and IP address used  to make the £90.00 transaction  to company C on 10 
July 2017 was the same device and IP address used to make  an undisputed 
transaction for £7.99  on 6 July 2017
Ms W said she used  her home  and work PC to undertake online transactions,  which 
were password protected. So theres no plausible explanation as to how an unknown 
third party  wouldve been able to gain access to the computer
on 5 July 2017 there was a declined attempt for a £8,364.10 payment to company  C. 
Ms W was contacted by HSBCs fraud detection  team and she confirmed she had 
attempted to make  this transaction
Ref: DRN66743252Whilst HSBC investigated Ms Ws disputed transactions  claim they credited her account. 
However, once it had decided Ms W had authorised  the transactions HSBC re-debited  
Ms Ws account.  This caused Ms Ws account to become overdrawn.  
HSBC says it sent Ms W several  letters including default notices to her home address. But 
Ms W never got in touch  with them to discuss how she intended to repay the money  she 
owed. Ms W says she never received any letters from HSBC about  her overdraft. And HSBC 
didnt let her know it had recorded  a default against her. 
An investigator looked into Ms Ws complaint and asked her some  additional  questions  
about the payments made to company C. Ms W told the investigator that shed used 
company C previously in 2014. And that she hadnt spoken to HSBC  on 5 July 2017. The 
investigator sent Ms W a copy  of the call recording of the phone call on 5 July 2017  and 
asked her for her comments. Ms W never responded.  
Having looked  at the sequence of events, the investigator said it was more  likely than not 
Ms W authorised the disputed transactions. She also said HSBC  hadnt acted unfairly when  
it defaulted Ms W. Ms W disagreed. She wants the default removed from her credit file. As 
no agreement could  be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
disputed transactions
HSBC is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions if Ms W didnt make or 
authorise them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment  Services  
Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009). Ms W says she didnt make  the payments to company 
C. And shes seeking a refund of £8,454.10. So my primary concern is to come  to a view 
about whether  or not I think Ms W authorised  the payments. 
From looking  at the evidence, I dont  think  its unreasonable for HSBC  to conclude  that Ms W 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
Ms W says she hasnt  disclosed her computer or VbV password to anyone else.  And 
hasnt recorded  it anywhere. So theres  no convincing  explanation for how an 
unknown third party would know this information
on 5 July 2017 HSBCs fraud  prevention team called Ms W and she confirmed shed 
authorised the payment of £8,364.10 to company C
having listened to recordings of conversations Ms W made to us about her complaint, 
I think its more likely than not it was Ms W speaking in the call to HSBC  on 5 July 
2017
the device  and IP address used  to make the disputed transaction  of £8,364.10 to 
company C matched  the device and IP address used to make  an undisputed 
transaction on 23 June  2017  
the transaction made on 10 July 2017  was made via a secure online payment system 
which required Ms Ws VbV password,  card number, expiry date and CVC card 
number
Ref: DRN66743253the IP address and device  ID used  to make the payment of £90.00  has previously 
been used to make undisputed transactions 
even though Ms W says she was at work  the time of the disputed transactions,  I 
havent seen any plausible explanation  as to how an unknown third party  couldve 
obtained her card and VbV password without Ms Ws authority
So when I weigh everything up, I think its more  likely than not that Ms W authorised the 
transactions. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for HSBC  to refuse her a refund of the 
disputed transactions.
default marker
HSBC has a responsibility to report financial information accurately. So I would only ask 
HSBC to remove the record if I thought it had been  registered in error. In this particular case,  
I think HSBC communicated  clearly  with Ms W about what would happen if she didnt repay 
the debt, which included explaining what further  action  could  be taken, including recording 
information with credit reference agencies and passing the account to debt collectors. So Im 
satisfied HSBC has done what Id expect it to do and has communicated  clearly  with Ms W 
about the consequences of not repaying  her debt. I also think  HSBC gave Ms W enough  
notice before it registered the default.
I know Ms W says she never received any letters from HSBC about the money she owed. 
But Ive looked  at copies of the letters HSBC sent to Ms W between 3 August 2017 and 23 
October 2017, and I can see that they are addressed to the same  address Ms W has 
provided to this service.  HSBC has also provided us with screen  shots which confirm the 
letters were sent. Ive also kept in mind that HSBC sent Ms W more  than one letter, so I think 
its unlikely that all of the letters HSBC sent to Ms W werent received by her. So while  
I sympathise with Ms Ws situation, I think HSBC were entitled  to decline her request to 
remove the default from her credit  file. The default  recorded on Ms Ws credit file is an 
accurate reflection of the account. So I wont be asking HSBC to remove it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6674325