K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about the payday loans he got from Gain  Credit LLC,  trading  as Lending 
Stream. Mr E has explained that he had to take loans from other  lenders  to repay Lending  
Stream. 
background
Using very little information  from Lending Stream and some information from Mr E, I created 
a table giving some brief details of the approved loans and it appears here. I make no 
assurances as to accuracy  because I have had to piece together  details  without having  seen  
any copy loan agreements. This table is not to be used to work  out any redress sums  which  
need to be calculated.
Loan Date  approved amountCredit file 
closure date
1 15 April 2013 £50 30 April 2013
2 1 October  2013 £10028 November 
2013
32 December 
2013£12523 December 
2013
Gap in lending
4 8 January 2015 £25027 February 
2015
5, 6, 7 & 813, 15, 19 and 
22 February 
2015£50, £60, £50, 
£50 respectively27 March 2015
9 3 March 2015 £250 27 March 2015
10 7 March 2015 £50 27 March 2015
Gap in lending
1119 November 
2015£200 1 February 2016
1227 November 
2015£25030 November 
2015
133 December 
2015£520 1 February 2016
Gap in lending
149 November 
2017£500 outstanding
Our adjudicator sent his opinion about  Mr Es complaint  to both parties.  It remained 
unresolved and was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision dated 14 March 2019,  
which is attached  and forms part of this final decision and should be read with it. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I intended to uphold Mr Es complaint in part. 
I invited both parties to provide any further comments they may have  by 28 March  2019 
before I reached a further decision.
Mr E has said that he is OK with this decision and did not add anything else.  
Lending Stream has enquired about  an aspect of Loan 14 which I address below. 
Ref: DRN60949672my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I am content  that Mr E has received my provisional  decision. 
Lending Stream has not provided any arguments  to defend the merits of the complaint,  so 
I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision on 
14 March 2019  in relation to the merits of it. 
Lending Stream did raise  points and wished clarification in relation to Loan 14 and the fact 
that in my provisional  decision I had said that I did not think  that it could off-set  the money 
due to Mr E from the money Mr E owed  to it. I have altered  my position  in relation to that 
aspect of the redress section of my provisional decision in that now I think  that Lending  
Stream can set-off  the sums. I have emailed Mr E to inform  him that I planned  to make that 
alteration to my final decision. He has not responded to that email. 
putting things right  
Because I have decided  that Lending  Stream should not have given Mr E some  of the loans, 
its not right that Mr E should have to pay interest  or charges on these, or have them affect  
his credit file in a negative  way. 
Lending Stream should do as follows:
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Mr E in respect  Loans  8, 9, 10, 12 
and 13 inclusive; and
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest and it must give 
Mr E a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
remove any adverse payment information  about  the loans 8, 9, 10, 12 and 13 from 
Mr Es credit file;
Lending Stream is entitled to set off any of the monies arising from the redress  against any 
monies Mr E may owe it for Loan  14.
If, after the set-off, Lending Stream requires repayment for any outstanding balance  on 
Loan 14, I recommend that it sets up an agreed  repayment plan with Mr E and I remind it of 
the need to be positive  and sympathetic towards  him when addressing  this debt recovery.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 14 March  2019, I uphold 
Mr Es complaint in part. 
Ref: DRN60949673Gain Credit LLC,  trading as Lending  Stream, should  put things right for Mr E in the way 
I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  on or before 26 May 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
the main part of the provisional decision starts on the next page
Ref: DRN60949674the main parts of my provisional decision dated  14 March 2019
background
Lending Stream has sent to us a letter outlining  the information it said it had when Mr E made  the 
applications. It has not sent to us any other details  surrounding the lending  process which is 
disappointing.
Mr E has sent us his bank  statements for two different accounts and his credit file plus explanations  of 
his financial situation at different stages  through the lending period. 
The Lending Stream  loans usually are repaid by six monthly  instalments  but I have not seen any copy  
agreements. The 14 loans Mr E took may have  been  the same  structure, but we have had to use 
information from Mr E, including  his personal  credit file, to piece together details. 
So I have created a table giving some brief details of the approved loans and it appears here. I make 
no assurances as to accuracy  and this table is not to be used to calculate any redress sums which  
may need to be calculated.
the table is reproduced in the final decision above
It appears that many loans were repaid before they were due to end. There are breaks in the lending 
and these do make a difference  to the overall picture of the lending  relationship between  Mr E and 
Lending Stream. 
Our adjudicator considered  the complaint and used as much detail as he could  to piece  together a 
comprehensive picture.  He thought that Lending  Stream should put things right for Mr E for Loans  8, 9 
and 10. 
Lending Stream did not reply. And because of this the complaint was referred to an ombudsman.  
Each party  was given some time to forward anything further   Lending Stream has not sent anything  
else. Mr E has raised a concern about what he describes as Lending Streams inconclusive credit 
checks. And he goes on to pose  the question  surely if the results were  not enough why were  they 
lending in the first place.
So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial  situation.  
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list 
a number of things  a lender could take into account before agreeing  to lend. 
The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being borrowed was 
due to be repaid. 
Ref: DRN60949675Lending Stream has given us a summary  of what it says it relied on to make the lending  decisions. It 
says it received information from Mr E - his income and his expenditure  as declared by him. 
Sometimes the expenditure figures were itemised  into categories such as mortgage, food, travel and 
utilities. But this was not the case each time. Lending Stream said:  A credit worthiness check was 
completed and the third party credit reference  agency confirmed a rating  which  was satisfactory for 
the loan obligation. We have not received the credit reference agency results or copies of any 
application forms.
Sometimes Lending Stream  has explained that it used statistical data and said: Using national  
averages for expense categories where  data is available as a third party  verification of your 
submission, we revised upwards your total stated  expenses and this still resulted  in a viable 
disposable income . No details of these have  been  sent to us. 
On Lending Streams submissions it says that the disposable income  left to Mr E for each loan 
ranged from £1,000 in the earlier years through to £1,700 for the later loans. Lending Stream said that 
based on what it saw from this it decided to lend to Mr E. 
The three  gaps in the lending relationship need to be addressed. When Mr E reapplied for a new loan 
after a gap, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to effectively treat him as a fresh  customer. 
This does make a difference to what I consider  to be the appropriate  and proportionate checks  for the 
loans. 
Loans 1 to 3 in 2013.
Having reviewed  the information we have from both parties I do think  that the checks  Lending Stream 
says it carried out appear to have been proportionate for the first three loans.  I say this because  at the 
early stages of the lending relationship I would have expected Lending Stream to have information  
about Mr Es income  or his income  and expenditure. Lending Stream  has told us that Mr E had given 
them that information and I think that it was reasonable  and proportionate for it to rely on that. 
These loans  were repayable in instalment so they would  have had been lower monthly amounts for 
Mr E. So on the evidence available  to me its likely that the lending decisions  would have been the 
same for these loans.  I am not planning  to uphold Mr Es complaint  for Loans 1 to 3. 
Loans 4 to 10 in 2015
The gap in the lending relationship of about 14 months between Loan  3 and Loan 4 was enough for 
me to think that Mr E could  have  been treated  as a new customer  in January 2015. I would have  
expected Lending Stream  to have known about Mr Es income or his income  and expenditure  for the 
earlier loans in this new loan chain.  
It seems that Lending Stream had that information and as instalment loans  then the amounts 
repayable each month lead me to think that on the evidence available  to me its likely  that the lending 
decisions for Loans 4 to 6 would have been the same.
By the time Mr E was applying for Loan 7 it would  have been the fourth  loan in about  five weeks 
which I think  are a lot of applications for loans in a relatively short  period of time. So I think  that as 
well as knowing about Mr Es income  and expenditure (which Lending Stream has said it already had) 
I would expect  it to have checked Mr Es commitment to any other short-term  loan (STL) providers. 
Part of the reason I say this is because these loans would  all have  been outstanding at the same  time 
and the cumulative repayment sums would  be getting to a relatively high level. 
Ref: DRN60949676I do not know  if Lending  Stream did this and so I have used Mr Es personal credit file and two sets of 
his bank statements to see what outstanding STL he may have had on 19 February 2015.  I can see 
that Mr E did have some  other  STL.  Two were from an instalment  lender - Mr E took a £150 loan from 
it on 19 January  2015 and then a £100 loan from it on 21 January  2015.  And a payday loan from a 
different lender for £350 on 29 January 2015. Late January 2015 Mr E repaid about  £1,119 to several 
lenders. And early February 2015  started to take further loans from the same companies. Then I can 
see Loan 7 credit his account on 19th February 2015.  
So the outstanding STL may not have been a particularly high sum at the time that Mr E was 
accepting Loan 7. But what seems to be serial borrowing does appear to have established itself. On 
balance, for this particular Loan 7, I do think that looking for Mr Es outstanding  STL would have made 
a difference to the lending decision for Loan 7 - as Lending Stream  may have come to the same 
conclusion  to lend Mr E £50. 
However, the picture which appears to have established itself around the time of Loan 7 would  have 
been highly relevant when  Mr E came back  a few days later for Loan 8. It was for another relatively 
small loan (£50) on 22 February 2015, and it was a request for further capital soon after having been 
given Loans 4 to 7. So I think a responsible lender would  have recognised  that Mr E was asking for 
loans every few days and that there may be an underlying affordability issue to investigate. So at this 
stage I would  have expected Lending Stream to have carried out a full financial review of his finances. 
And I say this even though  the sum applied  for was relatively small. Because  of the repeat nature of 
his applications and because these loans would all have been  outstanding at the same time,  the 
cumulative repayment sums would be getting to a relatively high level.
So at this stage in the lending relationship  in this loan chain I think  that Lending Stream  ought  to have 
verified Mr Es income, expenditure,  financial  commitments and his STL liabilities. I do not know if 
Lending Stream did this as I have not received results of any credit checks and it still seemed to be 
proceeding on the basis that Mr E earned about  £1,500 a month. I have looked  at his bank account  
statements and I can see that he was earning less from two different jobs  about  £1,200. His rent he 
has told us he paid was about £650 and so with the regular expenditure  and his STL liabilities - at 
least two other lenders as well as Lending Stream - I do not think that Mr E would have had enough 
for Loan 8.
The same  points raised here apply to Loans 9 and 10 which were two loans within four days  of each 
other adding a further £300  (combined capital sum) to the indebtedness Mr E had with Lending 
Stream. I can see that Mr E was not able to afford Loans 9 or 10.
I am planning  to uphold Mr Es complaint in relation to Loans 8, 9 and 10. 
Loans 11 to 13 
A further gap in lending of over seven months occurred before  Mr E applied  for Loan 11 in mid -
 November 2015. It was for £200 and a relatively  large amount but with the gap, and in view of the 
declared income figure he gave to Lending Stream at the time, I would have  expected Lending  
Stream to have known  about  his income  which he had given  as £1,500. This would have been an 
instalment loan and so likely relatively low repayments  due over six months. So I think that Lending 
Stream carried out proportionate checks for Loan 11.
However  for Loan  12  this was the second loan application in this new loan chain and was for a 
larger amount  of £250  only a few days after applying for Loan 11. For a person  to need £450 within  a 
week ought to have alerted a responsible lender to make additional enquiries. And as the instalment 
nature of the loan was going  to overlap with Loan 11 and his indebtedness to Lending Stream was 
going to be for another six months then I think that it was proportionate for it to know Mr Es income,  
outgoings and his STL liabilities. 
Ref: DRN60949677I do not think  Lending Stream had all of that information and so I have used Mr Es personal  credit file 
and bank account statements  to gather this information. Mr E had told it that he earned £1,500 and 
his outgoings were  £500  (using  the 17 November  2015 declaration as it was higher than the 
27 November 2015 expenditure  figure declared by Mr E). And I can see that Mr E had repaid some  
STL by the time he took this loan out and so I discount those sums. 
I can see that Mr E had other  STL outstanding. To one instalment STL lender  I can see he owed it 
some relatively modest instalments of about £42 and £44 in late November 2015 and as they were 
instalment loans its likely Lending Streams searches  would  have found these  using  any credit 
searches it says it carried out.
But I can also see that Mr E had taken a £650 payday loan in August 2015 which  looks to have been  
repayable in three  stages the last usually  being a much higher payment. And looking forward in time 
on his bank statements I can see that he repaid £781 to that other lender on 2 December  2015 which  
means this would have been due when he was applying  for Loan 12. And I also think that as it was 
taken out in August 2015 its likely that a search carried  out by Lending Stream  in November 2015 
would have revealed it.
An indication of a potential borrower  not being in a fit state to take further credit is when that person  
takes credit to repay other borrowings. I think that Mr E reached this stage and with the checks  I 
would have considered to have been proportionate I think that Lending Stream  would  have 
discovered this had it carried  them out when Mr E applied  for Loan 12. 
And noting Mr Es declared  income, expenditure and the monies he owed Lending Stream for Loans  
11 and the new Loan 12 plus what I have identified as being outstanding  STL leads me to think that 
Mr E would not have been able to afford this loan. A suitable credit worthiness assessment at the time 
would have identified  this. 
I am planning  to uphold Mr Es complaint in relation to Loan 12.
Loan 13 was the third loan in this chain  and was more than double the previous loan (Loan 12) which 
had been taken out just days after Loan 11. And Loan  13 was being applied for by Mr E within a week 
of obtaining the £250 loan (Loan 12). So I consider that a full financial review ought  to have been 
carried out to achieve  the proportionate  checks required  at this stage  of the lending relationship for 
this third loan chain. 
The combination of Mr Es applications for Loans 11, 12 and 13 amounts to £970 of principal sums 
between 19 November and 3 December 2015  a two week period  in time.  I think this was a lot of 
capital being asked for by Mr E in a very short period of time at high interest rates. 
I do not think  that Lending Stream did verify Mr Es income and check all his financial and STL 
commitments as well as his actual outgoings. Having  assessed Mr Es financial situation using  his 
bank accounts, personal credit file and what he has explained  to us about his circumstances, then I 
plan to uphold  Loan 13. It was irresponsible for Lending  Stream to have lent this money  without the 
proportionate and adequate checks needed to assess his situation.
Loan 14 
Mr E applied for this loan about 19 months after having been given Loan  13. This is a significant  gap 
and so I consider that Lending Stream was able to approach Mr Es application as if it was from a 
fresh customer. 
As an instalment loan and the first in this new lending chain, then I would have expected  that Lending 
Stream knew  of Mr Es income which  he had declared to it as £2,500 a month.  So I consider  that 
proportionate checks were carried out and I do not plan to uphold Mr Es complaint about  Loan 14. 
the provisional decision ends  here
Ref: DRN6094967