K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) decision to reject  his travel insurance  
claim. Mr N claimed for a camera that he left behind in his hotel abroad.
background
Mr N discovered  the loss of his camera and accessories on his return  home.  He contacted  
the hotel who located his property and handed  it to the police, saying thats in line with local 
regulations.
Mr N was unable to recover  the items so submitted a claim for his loss. UKI said it wasnt 
covered, relying  on a policy  exclusion  which  says:
We will not cover:
any claim for baggage:
- that is confiscated,  detained or delayed by customs  or other  officials
The camera  falls within the policy definition of baggage which includes valuable items such  
as cameras and their accessories.
Mr N doesnt agree that its reasonable for UKI to rely on this exclusion.  He says he doesnt 
consider the items to have  been  confiscated or detained because  theyre  not things which  
were illegally held by him. He considers the police to be corrupt  and to have effectively 
stolen his property  from him.
An investigator here looked at the matter  and agreed with Mr N that the items hadnt been  
confiscated or detained. But he felt they were still possible to recover, and therefore couldnt 
be considered  as lost.
Mr N didnt agree, he says hes done  everything  reasonably possible to recover  the items, 
including three  visits to the police station on a subsequent trip. When  he was at the police 
station he felt interrogated, and was then told hed have to go to another  one. He says that 
wasnt possible due to his return travel arrangements, and he was also told there was still no 
guarantee the items would be returned  to him.
Because Mr N didnt agree with the investigator  the case  was been passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to Mr N and UKI in August 2019, because  whilst Id reached 
the same  overall  conclusion Id done so for different reasons. So I wanted to give the parties 
the chance to reply  before I issued  anything final.
Heres what I said:
I dont consider  the facts  of this case to be in dispute. Mr N left his camera and accessories 
in a hotel and they were passed on to the police. Im also happy to accept that Mr N has 
gone to a significant amount of effort to recover the items.
Whats left for me to decide  is whether  UKI was reasonable  in rejecting the claim. This is 
largely down to the terms and conditions of cover, although I can also consider whether 
UKIs reliance on the exclusion  is reasonable, in the particular circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN62856472Im sorry  to disappoint Mr N but I think UKI has considered his claim fairly.  The exclusion it 
relied upon, as set out earlier, says cover  isnt provided for baggage  that is confiscated, 
detained or delayed by customs  or other officials.
First of all, I think  its reasonable to regard the police  as other officials.  And I dont consider
Mr Ns property to have  been confiscated as it wasnt taken  from him. I also dont consider it 
to have been delayed (something that seems to relate more  to items in transit). But, although  
the investigator felt otherwise, I believe its reasonable  to consider it to have been detained.
I appreciate what Mr N has said about his property not being illegally held, and that hed 
consider those such things to be detainable.  I note the investigator has agreed with Mr N on 
this point, saying  the items were with the police for safe keeping.
But Mr N has attempted  to recover the items  and, to date, the police havent released them 
to him. As far as Im aware, the police are holding the items until such time that 
circumstances allow them to be released to Mr N. So I think  its reasonable for UKI to 
consider that theyre being detained.  Because of this, I believe it was reasonable for UKI to 
apply the exclusion  to Mr Ns claim.
I do understand why Mr N feels hes been left in an unfair position, but I dont think  this is 
because of anything  UKI has done wrong. Rather,  the difficulty  seems to me to be with the 
recovery of the items from the police  and thats  not something the policy covers.
We asked Mr N, and UKI, to let us know by 23 September 2019  if there  was anything further 
they wanted to add  having read my provisional  decision. Neither party  replied.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because nobody  replied  to my provisional decision,  I see no reason  to depart from it. So for 
the reasons explained above, I still dont think UKI was unfair in declining Mr Ns claim.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6285647