K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out online in 2001. The policy  was taken  out at the 
same time as Mrs C applied for an Egg credit  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
In response to our adjudicators letter Mrs C said at the time of the sale she had been in her 
job since August 2000, so over a year  not nine months  as our adjudicator said. Canada  
Square Operations records show that when  Mrs C applied for the credit card she gave her 
employment start date as 10 October 2000. However, I need not investigate this discrepancy 
or comment on it further as Ive found it doesnt affect my analysis, or the outcome of 
Mrs Cs complaint.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked  at the PPI screen Mrs C wouldve seen during her application for the 
credit card.  This gave her the options  to select Yes, I would like to protect my 
repayments against accident, sickness and unemployment. (I understand that by 
clicking on this box I confirm that I have read and agree  to the terms of Egg Card 
Repayment Protection. or No, I do not wish to protect  my repayments  and I 
understand that it will be my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill 
or lose my job. 
The options  were set out with equal prominence. Ive also seen a copy  of the 
application report for Mrs C. This recorded  the information Mrs C provided during  her 
online application, and the choices she made. There is a Y flag for PPI showing 
Mrs C selected the cover  during the application  process. Mrs C said she felt 
pressured to take out PPI but her sale was completed online, theres no evidence  
she had any direct contact with Canada Square Operations  during the process. 
Overall Im satisfied Canada Square  Operations made it clear to Mrs C that PPI was 
optional and she chose  to take it. 
Mrs C says she didnt need  PPI as she lived with her parents so didnt  have any 
outgoings, and her family would have helped if needed. But Canada Square 
Operations didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs C, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. It was up to her to decide, given the other ways she had to make her 
repayments if she wasnt working. Regardless of this, I think the policy was suitable 
based on what I know about Mrs Cs circumstances. She cant  recall her sick pay, but 
Ref: DRN66205922the PPI would have paid out in addition to any work  benefits and for up to 12 months 
for successful accident, sickness or unemployment claims. I dont think family  help is 
suitable alternative protection as its not guaranteed and peoples  circumstances can 
change. So even if Canada Square had recommended the cover, I wouldnt uphold 
Mrs Cs complaint on this point as I think the PPI would have been  useful for her if 
she was sick or lost her job.
 
Its possible Canada Square  Operations didnt give Mrs C all the information about  
the PPI that she needed before she made  her decision. But it seems Mrs C chose to 
take out the policy and so appears to have wanted  this type of cover. She wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy  was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable. So, on balance, I think  it unlikely Mrs C wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  
It follows that I dont think Mrs C has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6620592