K820x#14Complaint
This complaint has been made  by the representative  and son of the late Mr B. The complaint 
is that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold his father a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy  in or around September 1996  to go with a credit  card hed taken out previously.  
The late Mr Bs representative says the PPI was added to his fathers  card without his 
knowledge or permission. 
Background
Mr B bought the policy at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Because  Mr B disagrees, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Its not clear how Mr B bought the policy   it could have been  by phone, postal application  or 
at a branch - and theres very little information still available  given the length of time since 
the sale. However, given  what  I know about HSBC sales at this time, I agree with our 
adjudicator that HSBC  probably didnt recommend that Mr B buy the policy.  But HSBC still 
needed to make sure that the information  it gave Mr B about it was clear fair and not 
misleading. 
Unfortunately, neither  HSBC nor Mr Bs representative have been able to provide us with the 
paperwork from the sale. Thats not unusual after so much time. So Ive thought carefully 
about whether  or not Mr B wanted  to buy the PPI, taking into account what hes told us and 
what I know about HSBCs sale process  at the time.  Whichever way he filled it in, from what 
I know I think he would have been  made  been  aware of the option  to buy PPI and that he 
had a choice about whether or not to go ahead  with it. 
So overall, I think its more likely  than not that Mr B would have known he had a choice 
about buying the cover. He decided that the PPI was something he wanted to have with his 
card and went ahead and bought it.
Ref: DRN63831092Ive also looked  at the question of whether the policy was right for Mr B. Given  that we dont 
know exactly how it was sold Ive treated the sale of the PPI as if it had been made by way 
of a recommendation. 
As far as I can see Mr B was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been  affected  by any 
of the main exclusions.  If hed made  a successful claim  on the PPI for accident  or sickness,  
or if he lost his job, the policy  wouldve  covered his monthly card repayments, paying 10% of 
the outstanding balance  for up to 12 months.  Mr Bs representative has suggested  that his 
late father would  have been  entitled  to sick pay of at least 12 months. Given  what I know  
about Mr Bs occupation, I think that level of sick pay is unlikely and in any event his 
representative hasnt  been able to provide  us with further information about this for us to 
consider. 
So, on balance, I consider that having  the PPI was worthwhile, given what  we know about 
Mr Bs circumstances at the time. 
I cant know exactly what happened  when  Mr B bought the policy. Its possible that not all the 
information about the policy was given to him, such as the cost.  But, having thought about 
that, I still consider  that even if hed been  told, I dont think Mr B wouldve  done anything 
differently. I think he still wouldve gone  ahead and bought the policy if hed been  given 
better information about it. 
  
It follows that I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. Im sorry to have to disappoint his 
representative.
Ive seen that the late Mr B had a period off work  due to illness during the time he had the 
PPI. Its open to his representative to make a retrospective claim to the PPI insurer about  
this if he wishes. If the representative is then unhappy with the way the insurer  responds  to 
the claim,  it may be something we can then look at. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative 
of the late Mr B to accept  or reject  my decision before 29 September  2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6383109