K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains about the level of service received from AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited  (The AA) following a claim  she made under her motor  insurance policy.  
background
Ms J was unfortunately  involved in a collision  with a third party  vehicle in September  2018. 
She said she was stationery at a set of traffic  lights when the third party collided with the rear 
of her vehicle. Ms J said the impact and damage to her car appeared minor. 
The AA settled Ms Js claim as a total loss because it considered  her car was beyond  
economical repair. Its approved garage  reported that estimated repairs would cost over 50% 
of Ms Js cars market  value. It valued Ms Js car at £1,700. 
Ms J was unhappy about this and said The AA should carry out repairs up to the market 
value of her car. But The AA disagreed.  Ms J sent The AA what  she considered were like-
for-like examples of her car being  advertised  for sale. The AA said it agreed to increase the 
total loss settlement to £1,900 because of the information Ms J provided, and in attempt to 
try to resolve  Ms Js claim.  
Ms J asked if she was able to keep  her car and get it repaired herself. The AA said Ms J 
could but would need to pay the salvage  value. It also sent her a list of matters she would 
need to adhere  to should she decide  to retain  her car in October 2018. It said this was 
because Ms Js car would  be recorded as a category N write off. Ms J didnt confirm  she 
wanted to retain her car at this point. 
The AA further  increased its offer in October  2018 to £2,028. It said it based this on the main 
motor trade  guides.  But Ms J remained unhappy  so she brought her complaint to this service 
for consideration. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Js concerns. He said he didnt think that The AA had acted 
unreasonably by deciding to settle the claim  as a total loss. He checked the three motor 
trade guides in order to see if The AAs valuation was fair. And based  on these, he agreed  
The AAs offer was fair. 
Ms J said she would like to retain  her car. Her car was being held at a salvage yard during 
the time she was in dispute with The AA. The AA provided our service  with photographs of 
the cars condition in September 2019  which were shared  with Ms J. But Ms J decided not to 
retain the car due to its condition;  she said further damage had occurred. 
Ms J said shes  no longer in dispute about  the cash settlement The AA offered her in 
October 2018. Ms J said she wants The AA to compensate her for the level of service  shes 
received, and the impact its had on her pre-existing medical condition by not having a car. 
As she remains dissatisfied, the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold the complaint 
which I appreciate will disappoint  Ms J. I will now explain why. 
Ref: DRN68826802There are a number of different points that affect this complaint. So to keep things simple, 
Ive set these out separately below and answered  each of the points  in turn. 
whether Ms Js car shouldve been repaired or not 
Whilst Ms J has said this is no longer  in dispute,  for the sake  of completeness I will now refer 
to the terms and conditions of the policy which state  how The AA will settle claims. It says:  
The Insurer will pay for loss of or damage  to the Insured Car... by (at the Insurers  
discretion)
Repairing or 
Replacing or 
Paying in cash the amount of the loss or damage.  
Ms J originally complained that The AA shouldve asked for her consent prior to deeming her 
car a total loss. But the policy enables The AA to settle claims at its own discretion under 
these terms. And Im in agreement it exercised this fairly and reasonably  here. 
the market value offered for Ms Js car  
Ms J has also explained  that this is no longer  something thats  in dispute. But again  for 
completeness, I have considered whether I agree that the offer is fair and reasonable. And in 
this case I do. 
The policy terms say the most The AA will pay to replace Ms Js car is the market value. 
Thats defined as the cost of replacing her car based on the market prices  at the time of loss. 
Its important to explain that our service  doesnt provide valuations for cars. My role here is 
to assess whether The AA has acted fairly and reasonably. And in doing so, I have 
considered how The AA reached  the value given. 
The AA initially valued Ms Js car at £1,700. My understanding is that this was based  on a 
valuation provided  by its approved repairers.  I note the pre-existing damage apparent on Ms 
Js car was a factor in The AA coming  to this value. Ive seen images that suggest there was 
some pre-existing  damage  that Id expect to see on a car thats  over ten years  old. But The 
AA decided to increase  the value to £1,900  because of the information  Ms J presented. 
The valuation was further increased  to £2,028  based on the motor trade guides. But Ms J 
remained unhappy with the amount it offered her as she said she wouldnt be able to replace 
her car with this amount.  
Our investigator checked three trade guides  and found the same  as The AA. I carried  out my 
own research, and checked a further  fourth  guide  to satisfy myself  whether The AA had 
reached a fair settlement  to meet  Ms Js claim.  And Im in agreement that £2,028  is fair and 
reasonable. 
Its standard practice  for the industry to use trade  guides to work out the estimated market 
value of a car. This is because the valuations the guides give are based  on the prices of 
similar cars of a similar age and mileage  sold at the time of the loss. And the value Ms J has 
been offered is reasonably in line with the average price  taken  from the guides. 
Ref: DRN68826803Ms J provided advertisements showing cars priced  higher  than the amount shes  been 
offered. But these are only asking  prices and dont give the prices the cars sold for. So, Im 
more persuaded  that the guides give more of an accurate reflection of what similar cars to 
hers sold for at the time of loss. So I wont be asking The AA to increase its offer under the 
policy.
Retaining the salvage 
Its not standard industry practice for an insurer to ask a policyholder whether they wish to 
retain the salvage. But if a customer asks to do so, then our service thinks  its generally fair 
for a business to allow a customer to do so. 
Ms J remains unhappy that her car is in a poorer condition than when the loss occurred. I 
understand her car has been  in salvage since the accident occurred in September  2018. I 
have seen the photographs of her cars current condition  and agree with Ms J that further  
damage has been caused.  This is based  on comparison photographs  Ive seen of the car 
from 2018, and 2019. 
But what  I must decide is whether The AA has acted fairly and reasonably here in allowing 
Ms J to retain the salvage  when she informed  them she wanted  to do so. And in this case, I 
think it did. 
Ms J first notified  The AA that she was considering retaining the salvage in October  2018.  
She asked  The AA to provide her with the details of the procedure  to have her car returned 
to her, should  she wish to do so.  
The AA provided  Ms J with more  information about what she would be required to do should 
she keep retain the car, given it would be recorded  as a category N write  off. These points 
included: 
The vehicle would be recorded as a category N insurance loss.
The repairs to your vehicle would be your responsibility and an MOT would be 
required to confirm  the vehicle is in a roadworthy  condition. 
A salvage value  of £228 would be deducted from the settlement figure should you 
retain your vehicle. 
You would  need to contact your broker to confirm how this will affect your policy and 
future renewals.
You would  need to make arrangements to remove the vehicle from the repairer. 
The vehicle may have occurred slight further  damage from the 
transportation/recovery of the vehicle from our salvage agent, X.
  
Ms Js car had already been retrieved by The AAs salvage agents. But Ms J was unhappy  
there could  be further damage that had been caused as a result of this. It wasnt clear  
whether her car had suffered any further damage at that point in 2018,  other  than the rear 
lights had been  removed as part of the damage assessment process which  were still 
available to be put back to working  order by Ms J. 
Im satisfied The AA acted reasonably by agreeing that Ms J could retain the salvage, which 
was available  to her in October 2018. Given her car was a category N write off, there were a 
number of things  that Ms J was required to do. And I think  this was clearly set out to her in 
October 2018. So I cannot  agree  with Ms J that The AA acted unfairly.  
Ref: DRN68826804The AA also offered to pay the total loss settlement  to Ms J in the interim of bringing her 
complaint to our service. With this, it also maintained its offer that Ms J could retain  the 
salvage, and it would  deduct  the £228  salvage  costs and return  the car to her free of charge. 
But I note this wasnt accepted. 
Ms J has said she suffers  with a pre-existing medical condition  that has been affected  by the 
claim. She said as she doesnt have access to a car, shes had to use public transport to 
travel to work. I appreciate this wouldve been a difficult time for Ms J. But I cant agree I can 
reasonably hold The AA responsible for this. 
The AA agreed  to allow Ms J to retain  the salvage and also offered to pay her the total loss 
settlement as an interim payment whilst  she pursues her complaint with us. I cant 
reasonably say Ms J has taken steps to mitigate her circumstances given she had the 
opportunity to retain the salvage  and receive  the total loss settlement payment on a non-
prejudice basis in October  2018. 
As Ms J has told us that she no longer disputes  the total loss settlement, and does not wish 
to retain  the salvage, The AA should  take steps  to complete the settlement directly with 
Ms J. But for the reasons  given above,  I wont be asking it to do anything  else.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6882680