K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Canada  Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  to Mrs L. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  Canada Square sold 
Mrs L the policy when  she applied for the card on the internet. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs L and her representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Canada Square made  Mrs L aware  that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it. The online application  process gave a choice of taking  or not taking 
PPI, and the customer had to say which one was their choice, before proceeding with 
their card application.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable  for Mrs Ls 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. But even  if Canada  Square had recommended the PPI, I dont  think  a 
recommendation would have been unsuitable in Mrs Ls circumstances at the time. 
The PPI could have  paid out for longer than her employer sick pay would have 
lasted. And it would have  been  at the same time as that sick pay, or any redundancy 
pay. It seems Mrs L didnt have savings  to fall back on at the time. Mrs L has said 
she had life insurance  but life insurance  doesnt cover you for being unable  to work 
because of sickness or redundancy.
The information Canada Square  gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in her circumstances,  full and clear  information 
about costs and benefits would  have affected whether she took the PPI. And it 
doesnt look like shed  have  been affected by any of the significant exclusions  in the 
policy. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
Ref: DRN64331152Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision 3 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6433115