K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003.
Mrs J says Canada Square  Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Canada Square  had to make Mrs J aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  Ive seen screen  shots  of the online  application process 
Canada Square  says Mrs J would have seen and completed.  Ive not seen any reason to 
doubt that these  are copies of the screens Mrs J wouldve seen,  so Ive relied on these 
samples in my decision. These show Mrs J would have had to select  either  yes or no for 
the PPI before submitting  her application.  Canada Square says the PPI wouldve  only been
added to her account if she had ticked  the yes option online,  and she wouldnt have been 
able to progress  with her application without making  a selection here.
The online application record which recorded  what Mrs J entered online suggests  that she 
chose the yes option to have PPI added to her account. So based on the evidence Ive 
seen I think Canada Square did make it clear  that the PPI was optional,  and she chose to 
take it out.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if the policy 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs J got the information  she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs J says she had sufficient other means  at the time so she wouldnt have had any difficulty 
making her repayments. These included generous sick and redundancy cover.  But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to her sick pay, and for longer than she would have received 
full pay. The policy also covered circumstances  other than redundancy.
So overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs J and I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  It follows  then that I dont  think the 
PPI was mis-sold. Which  means Canada Square  doesnt have to pay back  the cost of the 
PPI to Mrs J.
Ref: DRN61372632my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6137263