K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs G took out 
the card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint was passed to me. I issued my 
provisional decision on 30 May 2019 setting  out why I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. Mrs G has responded with some  further comments which Ive considered below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the additional 
comments made by Mrs G. Having done  so, I still dont  think the policy  was mis-sold and Ill 
explain why.
In summary,  Mrs Gs response to my provisional decision is that:
the information about pre-existing  medical conditions was not discussed with her over 
the phone;
at no point was it made clear  to her that having a pre-existing medical condition 
rendered the policy invalid and that no payments  would be made on any claim;
had she been  told about the exclusions around  pre-existing medical conditions  she 
wouldnt have taken  it out and she doesnt know how it can be assumed otherwise; 
FICL  recommended  the policy to her.
Firstly it might be helpful for me to explain that where there is limited evidence available  from 
the sale I have  to consider what both parties  have said, and what evidence  we do have, in 
order to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities  on what I think  is more likely to 
have happened  at the time.
Ive considered what Mrs G has said about  being  recommended the policy.  But based on 
what weve seen of FICL telephone sales these were usually non-advised, and Mrs G hasnt 
provided me with any persuasive evidence that she was advised during the call. Mrs G says 
that as FICL called her, and not the other  way around, this means the call was advised. But 
there is no evidence  FICL considered her circumstances  at the time of sale and made  a 
personalised recommendation to her based on the information they gathered in the call. So I 
dont think this was an advised sale. 
As a non-advised sale FICL shouldve given Mrs G the information she needed  to decide if 
the policy was right for her. But if it didnt, I then have to consider if she wouldve decided not 
to take out the policy if she had been given  the information she needed. 
Ref: DRN67399112As it stands I havent seen enough information to conclude that Mrs G was given the 
information she needed to decide if I the policy was right for her. As I said in my provisional 
decision, Mrs G says she had two medical  conditions at the time of sale and the policy  
excluded claims for pre-existing medical  conditions.  So Ive considered  if she wouldve 
decided not to take out the cover if shed been told her conditions wouldnt  have  been  
covered. Due to the nature of these conditions it is likely these  wouldve  been controlled by 
medication and didnt affect  her ability to work. And as Ive said in my provisional  decision, 
there is no evidence  Mrs G had to take time off for either of these conditions in the past. 
In response to my provisional decision Mrs G hasnt provided any further evidence that 
either of her conditions was more severe  or wouldve resulted in her needing to take time off 
work. And as the policy only provided  cover  in the event  Mrs G was off work for more  than 
30 days  I think it wouldve been unlikely that Mrs G wouldve  thought  shed have to take  
this much time off going forward. 
The PPI policy wouldve paid out for any other medical condition  Mrs G suffered from and 
had to take more  than 30 days  off for. So the fact that Mrs G already had other  medical 
conditions didnt make  the PPI invalid. It just meant that claims couldnt  be made for the 
conditions that Mrs G had at the time.  And for the reasons outlined above, I think Mrs G 
wouldve thought  this would be unlikely and wouldve  taken out the policy  to cover her for 
more serious, unexpected  conditions. So, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded 
that better  information  about the exclusions around pre-existing medical conditions wouldve 
made a difference to her decision  to take out the policy.     
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and those set out in my provisional decision, I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 1998 alongside  a 
store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mrs G took out the card.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs G says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN67399113my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL has provided evidence of its internal records to show  that the PPI was taken out over the phone  
in 1998  some time after the store card account had been set up. But unfortunately due to the length 
of time thats  passed there is no call recording for me to listen to  so I cant  say what  exactly  was 
discussed at the time. But as Mrs G already  had the credit in place I think she wouldve  known the 
PPI was an optional extra and not a condition of having the store card. FICL say that they wouldve  
only added the PPI to Mrs Gs account with her consent,  and without any persuasive evidence  to the 
contrary, I think thats likely to have been the case.
So based on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any evidence to the contrary, I think  FICL made it 
clear that Mrs G didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand if she cant remember  this. FICL  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs G got the information she 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. 
Mrs G says she was suffering from some medical  conditions at the time of sale. Having reviewed the 
terms of the policy it appears Mrs G wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy for these pre-
existing conditions. Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that they felt Mrs G would not 
have taken out the policy had FICL made this exclusion  clear to her.
But thinking  about what shes told us about her conditions and the fact that shed  never needed time 
off work  because of these  previously, I think its unlikely  Mrs G would  have thought this would be the 
main reason she might  have needed to claim  on the policy. Especially since she had said she had 
never had time off for this condition in this past.  So I think she wouldve  wanted this policy  to cover 
her for more serious,  unexpected conditions  and I dont  think better information  about  the exclusions 
around pre-existing  medical conditions  wouldve  put her off taking out the PPI.
And based on everything else Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so I think  it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. And I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would have  
put her off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 15% of Mrs Gs outstanding  monthly balance  for up to 
twelve months. And even though Mrs G was entitled to some sick pay from her employer, this 
wouldve only lasted for up to six months. Mrs G has also said that she had up to three months worth 
of savings which she couldve used in the event she was suddenly unable  to work. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of her savings, and her sick pay, and I think  its likely she wouldve  needed 
these funds for other expenses. And so I still think the policy wouldve been useful for her and I dont 
think better information wouldve put her off taking out the cover.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 13 June  2019.
Ref: DRN67399114Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6739911