complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained about how the fees charged for arranging their lifetime  
mortgage were paid. Specifically theyve  said that Money Release Limited shouldve given 
them the option to pay the fees from their own funds rather than have the fees deducted 
from the loan that was released to them.
background
In May 2017 Mr and Mrs T approached Money Release Limited to release equity in their 
home in order to replace  the savings lost following the planned  purchase  of a second 
home. They asked  for the maximum amount  that they could borrow  without having to sell 
their property. Mr and Mrs T were advised they could release £265,995 at an interest  rate 
of 5.75%.
This loan was broken down as follows: £260,000 to be paid to Mr and Mrs T, £5000 to cover  
the advice fees and £995 for solicitors fees.
Mr and Mrs T have  said that they think the business  shouldve made  them aware that they 
could borrow a lower  amount  and pay the fees directly themselves, rather  than having to pay 
interest on the fees, as they were  included in the overall sum released.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Money Release and it responded to say it wasnt  upholding the 
complaint. Money  Release said that it thought  Mr and Mrs T were made aware  of the fact 
that the fees would be deducted  from the overall loan amount and would therefore bear 
interest. It referred  to the information gathered at the point of sale including the key facts 
illustration document,  as well as meeting  notes  with the advisor and completed application.
It also recorded  that the advisor said that equity  release didnt really make the best sense for 
Mr and Mrs T as it would  be costly in the long run, but documented that Mr and Mrs T were  
keen to proceed regardless  and understood the costs.
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at the complaint 
but didnt think  it should be upheld. He said that the fees were not added  to the loan. But 
instead, the fees were deducted from the cash amount Mr and Mrs T received  from the 
lender. So the investigator concluded  that Mr and Mrs T were not paying interest on the fees 
and didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree. They replied  to say that they think  that Money Release shouldve 
made it clearer that they could borrow a lower amount and pay the fees directly  themselves.
Mr and Mrs T asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 20 August 2019. In this decision I set out why I didnt think 
this complaint should be upheld. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, I 
dont think this complaint  should succeed.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN6753592The terms of a lifetime mortgage  provide  that no monthly repayments  are required. 
The mortgage is only due to be repaid if the borrower sells the property voluntarily, 
goes into full- time care or after their death. Interest on the loan is rolled up into the 
outstanding balance, and is compounded. This means that if the loan runs for a 
number of years, there can be a significant balance to be repaid. Mr and Mrs T were  
told that they could release a sum of £266,500 from their property based on a 
valuation of their home.
The issue  here is about how Mr and Mrs T were  advised  that the fees could be paid. 
Having considered the documentation that was presented to Mr and Mrs T at the 
time; I do think it shows clearly that fees would need  to be paid. The mortgage offer 
dated 3 August 2017 outlines this.
I cant say for certain  what discussions happened around the sale.  Ive asked the 
business to provide more information  about  the discussions around  the time of the sale 
but Ive not received anything further.
In the absence of further evidence or information, Ive reviewed what  we do hold on 
file and considered what  both parties have said in order  to decide  what I think  is more 
likely than not in all the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs T did ask for the maximum amount that they couldve borrowed,  and this 
was what they received,  with the fees included. Money Release has said that it 
discussed the fees with Mr and Mrs T at the time and that they asked for them  to be 
included in the overall amount. Mr and Mrs T dispute this and Ive taken  into account 
that theyve said they did have sufficient funds  to pay for this directly themselves. The 
fact find details  Mr and Mrs Ts intentions  at the time and its recorded that they would 
like the maximum  amount they could borrow to replace lost cash on the purchase  of a 
second home and that they would like as much  of a buffer as possible.  Im mindful 
that if they had paid the fees directly  from their savings then they wouldve  had less in 
their bank account. They received the maximum amount available and didnt have to 
dip into their savings.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ts points  and have noted that Mr T says that the money was 
released to his solicitors. The solicitors then deducted these fees,  as well as their own 
solicitor fees. I understand that Mr and Mrs T did raise  this issue  with their solicitors 
but that that has since been resolved directly.
2
Ref: DRN6753592K820x#14The mortgage offer document does highlight  that fees would factor  into the overall 
sum released. If this differed  from Mr and Mrs Ts understanding of how the fees were 
to be paid then they couldve raised this at the time.
However, regardless of this, I still think its clear  that Mr and Mrs T wouldve taken 
the maximum amount  that was available. This was what they received. Whilst I do 
understand Mr Ts point  that he is paying  interest on the amount deducted for the 
fees, he would be in the same position  as he is if he had paid for the fees from his 
existing funds. He was paying an interest rate of 5.75% on the maximum amount he 
could release from his property and this was the same, regardless of what the funds 
were used for.
To illustrate this, if Mr and Mrs T had £15,500 in their bank account of which they used
£5,500 to pay the fees, and borrowed the full amount of £266,500 for their own 
purposes, they would  have at the end of the transaction cash  of £276,500 and a debt 
of £266,500. But if they had £15,500  in their bank account which they kept,  and 
borrowed £266,500  of which £5,500 was spent on fees, they would still at the end 
have cash of £276,500  and a debt of £266,500.  They would end up, overall, in 
exactly the same position.
I appreciate that this isnt what Mr and Mrs T wanted in hindsight. Theyve said that 
they wouldve  preferred to take a lower cash sum and paid the fees directly  from 
their own funds rather than the fees be factored into this agreement.
If a business does something wrong, and a consumer loses  out as a result, then well 
look to award appropriate  redress. But here,  Mr and Mrs T havent lost out financially 
as a result  of this. They are in the same  position that they wouldve been in if they 
paid for the fees from their own money.
So I wont be recommending that Money  Release does  anything further and Im not 
minded to uphold  this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr T responded to comment  on parts of my provisional decision. He said, in summary:
-it wasnt made clear how the fees could be paid 
-the documents all state you will pay the fees yourself and he feels  this is misleading
-he could have paid the fees himself and this would have stopped them  attracting the 
rate of interest he paid on the loan
-he would  like this service to persuade the industry to come clean on providing 
misleading information
Money Release didnt  respond to my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and further arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand the arguments put forward by Mr T and I can see why hes disappointed with 
my provisional decision. However, having  reviewed  all the evidence and the further 
Ref: DRN67535924comments Mr T has made, I havent  been  persuaded  to change my mind  about this 
complaint. 
Mr T has said that, if Money Release knew that the fees would be deducted from the gross 
amount, they should have made it clear that it would attract  interest at the same amount of 
the loan rate. Ive also noted  the calculations that Mr T has put together. As I mentioned in 
my provisional decision, I dont know exactly what  was discussed at the time and Mr T has 
since said that the only discussion about  fees was in relation to the amount. 
I do understand Mr Ts points and Ive carefully considered  if what hes said changes my 
provisional decision but I still think that, as he asked for the maximum amount he could 
receive, he is ultimately in the same position  he would have been in if he had paid the fees 
himself. 
Hes also asked us to help persuade  the industry to come clean on misleading  information, 
hidden costs and extra money for lenders. I should  outline that this isnt the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  This service  reviews individual complaints and here I have 
considered the information relevant to this complaint. Whilst it could have been  made  clearer  
how the fees would be paid, I dont  think this made  a difference  in this complaint. 
Having considered all the information  and comments made, I dont uphold this complaint.  As 
he asked for the maximum  amount available, Im not persuaded that Mr T lost out as a 
result.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6753592