K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Miss G say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS)  mis-sold  them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr G and Miss G bought the policy in 1988 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr G for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £170 a month towards Mr G and Miss Gs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £7.65 a month.  
month. 
At the time,  Mr G was employed  as an engineer.  He has told us he was not entitled to any 
sick pay and didnt  have  any other  means of repaying the mortgage  should he be unable to 
work due to illness. He says he would have received redundancy pay and have some  life 
insurance cover. Mr G has said he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
YBS has sent us information to show that the mortgage account closed in November  2002.  
Mr G and Miss Gs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr G and Miss Gs representative  says:
 
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr G and Miss G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr G and 
Miss Gs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr G and Miss G about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr G and Miss G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr G and Miss G received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Ref: DRN69423532Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr G and Miss G disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr G and Miss Gs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr G and Miss Gs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1988 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after YBS sold Mr G and Miss G PPI. Prior  to this there were fewer  requirements on a 
business when  selling  insurance  such as this. But YBS doesnt appear to have considered 
Mr G and Miss Gs complaint any differently  it seems to me they have considered  the sale 
of PPI against these  later standards.  So on the basis that it puts Mr G and Miss G in a more  
favourable position,  I have taken into account  the later industry codes of practice in 
considering what  I think  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN69423533 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr G and Miss Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr G and Miss G with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr G and Miss G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr G 
and Miss G, I must  then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent Mr G and Miss 
G suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr G and Miss 
G and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr G and Miss Gs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr G and Miss G know  they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of Mr G and Miss Gs mortgage application form. There was a section for 
PPI that included a box that had to be ticked if PPI was required. The box has been ticked  in 
this case. Because they requested PPI, a separate PPI application form then had to be 
Ref: DRN69423534completed. On this form Mr G has chosen  cover just for him and decided on a benefit 
amount of £170  per month.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr G and Miss G knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
Both YBS and Mr G and Miss G agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr G and Miss G. Instead,  it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr G and Miss G were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr G 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr G and Miss G would have 
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr G and Miss G agreed  to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think YBS gave Mr G and Miss G sufficient,  appropriate  and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr G and Miss Gs representative  has 
raised a number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when 
providing information in PPI sales.  It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr G and Miss Gs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr G and Miss Gs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr G and Miss G about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone 
further and explained  the significance of them to them.  
Ref: DRN69423535Im not persuaded by Mr G and Miss Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr G and Miss G have suggested. And taking into account  the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr G and Miss  G? To what extent  did Mr 
G and Miss G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr G and Miss 
G. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr G 
and Miss G would  have still taken out the policy, had YBS done things properly. 
Mr G and Miss G say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr G and Miss G had to weigh up in their own minds the 
cost of the policy against the benefits offered  and the potential consequences  if they didnt 
insure against the risk of Mr G being unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr G and Miss G chose  to take this policy  out. So I consider  that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr G and 
Miss G thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr G and Miss G have suffered any 
loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr G and Miss G knew  they would have to 
pay something for the policy, it doesnt  appear  YBS told them  the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, Mr G and Miss G were told the cost before the 
policy started and they paid for the policy for a number  of years, so if the costs were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with YBS at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr G and Miss G would have found  the cost unacceptable if 
they had been given  the exact  figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  YBS made clear exactly  what Mr G and Miss G would get 
back in return in the event Mr G made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr G and 
Miss Gs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr G and Miss G thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN69423536The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr G knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr G and Miss G pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  
that the policy wasnt as good as they thought  and they might  have decided not to proceed. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr G and Miss G 
from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr G and Miss Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr G was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to them  should  
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr G 
would have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr G didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr G would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
YBS may not have  told Mr G and Miss G that any claim  Mr G made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr G and Miss G would still have  thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr G be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr G and Miss G would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr G was made redundant, or unable to work  through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr G and 
Miss G would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr G and Miss Gs representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN69423537That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr G and Miss G would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr G and 
Miss Gs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr G and Miss G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr G and Miss G believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr G and Miss G in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr G and Miss G compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr G and Miss G think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr G and Miss G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1988  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr G and Miss Gs representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find YBS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr G and Miss G and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr G and Miss G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN69423538my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6942353