K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that Barclays Bank  Plc, trading as Barclaycard,  (Barclays) mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in 1995.
background
I previously sent  Barclays and Mrs B a provisional  decision  on this complaint. That 
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and 
explained that I didnt think Barclays had mis-sold the PPI policy  to Mrs B. But I said that I 
thought Barclays  should pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, as it hadnt  told Mrs B about this when it sold her the 
policy. I said I understood that Barclays had already done this. 
I asked Mrs B and Barclays to send me any further comments  and evidence  they wanted  me 
to consider before I made a final decision.  Both have now told me they have nothing further 
to say about the way Barclays sold the policy, but Barclays  has repeated that it has already 
refunded any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case. 
Ive looked into everything that Mrs B and Barclays have told us or sent us throughout this 
case, but as there is nothing new for me to consider  since I sent my provisional  decision, l 
have reached the same  conclusion, for the same reasons.
I do not think that Barclays mis-sold PPI to Mrs B. But Barclays  has paid back  some of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
 Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs 
B, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN62356062my final decision 
 
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B. 
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62356063copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B has complained  that Barclays Bank Plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold  her a PPI policy with 
a credit card in 1995.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Bs case.  Mrs B had asthma when she bought 
the policy  and the adjudicator thought this meant  that the policy Barclays advised her to buy didnt  
meet her needs. The adjudicator recommended that Barclays should  uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. 
Barclays didnt agree  with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review  the case.  So it 
has come  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  what to do in Mrs Bs case. Ive looked  into everything that weve 
been sent or told so far and Im not currently intending to uphold it. I realise  this may now come as 
a disappointment to Mrs B, but I hope my explanation will help her to understand my reasons.
Barclays and Mrs B have  disagreed about the way Barclays sold her the credit  card and the PPI 
policy. Mrs B has said that she applied through the post, whereas Barclays has said that she took 
the policy  during a meeting at one of its branches  and that it recommended  the policy  to her. 
A long time has passed since Mrs B took the policy and Im not surprised that there are different  
views about how she came to buy it. If Barclays recommended PPI to Mrs B, it would  have had to 
check that the policy was suitable for her and tell her about it clearly and fairly so she could decide 
if she wanted to buy it. If Mrs B applied  for the policy through the post then its very unlikely that 
Barclays could have made  a personal recommendation; it would still have had to send her fair and 
clear information about the policy, but it wouldnt  have had to check  that the policy was suitable for 
her. So in fairness  to Mrs B, I have considered  the case on the basis that Barclays recommended 
PPI to her as this placed greater responsibilities on Barclays.
Mrs B has told us that Barclays didnt tell her that the agreement  for the card included  PPI and that 
she never knew she had it. Shes  explained  that at the time she sold PPI as part of her job and that 
under no circumstances would (she)  have  taken it out.
However, Barclays has sent us a copy of Mrs Bs application and agreement  form for the credit 
card. This had a separate section  called  Payment Protection  Plan which I think  shows that 
Barclays gave Mrs B a choice about PPI and that she chose to take it.
The form had two boxes  in the PPI section. The text for the first box said:
Yes, I want my Barclaycard account(s) to be covered against unemployment, 
accident, sickness and death.
And the text for the second  box said:
No, I do not require protection.
Ref: DRN62356064Mrs B has ticked the first box and signed nearby.  So it seems to me that Barclays  gave Mrs B the 
option to have  the card with or without PPI and that she decided to take it. Had she wanted to have 
the card without PPI, she could have ticked the No box.
As Im working on the basis that Barclays recommended the policy to Mrs B, Ive looked  into her 
circumstances when she bought it and at the policys likely  features to see if it was reasonable  for 
Barclays to recommend  it. There  arent any notes available from the time,  so I dont  know what  
questions Barclays asked Mrs B, what, if anything  she told Barclays about her health condition  or 
what, if anything, it told her about the policy terms.
The policy had exclusions  which could have affected  people who had problems with their health at 
the time they bought it. During our investigation, we have received different information  about  Mrs 
Bs health when she took the policy. She initially  said that she had no health  problems but later told 
us that she has had asthma all her life. Shes explained  that when she bought the policy she was 
off work from time-to-tim e due to her asthma, but is unsure of the times and amounts. She has 
also told us that she has now retired and takes more medication than she needed previously.
Im very sorry that Mrs Bs health seems to have deteriorated, but I need to consider  her 
circumstances over 20 years ago, when she bought the policy. From what shes told us, it seems 
likely to me that in 1995 Mrs Bs asthma was under control  by medication, and was unlikely to 
have led her to take long periods of time off work. I dont think she would have thought it likely 
that she would have needed to claim  under the policy because of her asthma. The policy  only 
paid out benefits  if she was off work  for 14 consecutive days or more, and it could have covered  
her for other conditions or for losing her job. So I dont  think Mrs Bs asthma made  it 
unreasonable for Barclays to recommend  PPI to her.
From what Ive seen, Mrs B wasnt affected by any of the policys other main limitations and 
exclusions and she met its eligibility rules. Shes told us that at the time her family  circumstances 
were such  that she was always very careful with her finances. But she does seem to have been 
able to afford the policy.  And as she was paying for it with monthly  premiums, she could  have 
cancelled it at any time if she had changed her mind about having  it. Shes also told us that if she 
had been unable to work  she would  have  had few, if any, other resources (such as sick pay from 
her employer or savings) to help her with her card payments. So I think Mrs B had a potential  need 
for PPI and again I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to recommend it to her.
The application form provided only very brief details about PPI, and I dont know what leaflets or 
other information, if any, Barclays gave or sent to Mrs B. From what Ive seen, its quite possible 
that Barclays didnt explain everything to her as well as it should have done.  But as Im satisfied 
that Barclays gave Mrs B a choice, that she wasnt affected by the policys main exclusions  or 
limitations, that she had a potential need for the cover and could afford  the policy, I dont think she 
would have decided  not to buy it even if Barclays had explained everything properly.  I dont think  
Barclays mis-sold  PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Barclays  got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs B about that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN62356065my provisional  decision
I dont currently think  the PPI policy  was mis-sold, so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont intend to 
award any further compensation.
I now invite both parties  to respond to my provisional  decision by 3 January 2019. I will then 
consider any responses  I receive  before making a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6235606