K821x#15complaint
D, a private trust, has complained via its trustees  that Lloyds Bank PLC (the bank) was 
unable to handle  a change of trustees efficiently and that the bank wrongly removed an 
account signatory.  
background
One of the trustees died. This immediately left the trust with only one surviving  trustee, Mr E. 
The trust thought  it still had two authorised signatories for its account with the bank, namely 
Mr E and also Mr H, who was the trusts accountant  but not a trustee.
The trusts mandate to the bank  required two to sign.  The bank said that according to its 
records Mr E wasnt an authorised signatory. So, as far as the bank was concerned, the 
trusts account couldnt be operated  until at least one more signatory  had been  appointed. 
The trust appointed Mr S as a new trustee. The trust also wished to confirm  (or re-confirm) 
Mr S and Mr E as authorised signatories,  in addition to Mr H. The trust says this process 
took the bank  far too long to complete, and as a result  one of the trustees  had to use his 
personal resources  to meet the trusts financial obligations. 
The trust is adamant that Mr E was and remained an authorised  signatory. It wants  to know 
how it came  about that the bank removed him from that position.
The bank accepted it maladministered  the process of Mr Ss identification and paid £25 as 
compensation. But it didnt accept it was otherwise at fault.
Our adjudicator disagreed. He concluded  the bank  had caused the trust considerable 
inconvenience and delay by not dealing efficiently enough with the trusts  application  to 
register the signatories. But he said there  wasnt enough evidence for him to come  to a 
conclusion over Mr Es status  or not as a signatory. He recommended  the bank should pay 
the trust £350  compensation.
The bank accepted the adjudicators conclusions. The trust did not. It thought  £350  wasnt  at 
all enough  to compensate the trust and the trustees for what  the bank  had put them through.  
The trust also said (a) the ombudsman service should  make a finding of fact one way or the 
other about Mr Es status as an account  signatory and (b) the trust had also complained 
about the banks failure  to change the name  of the account, but we hadnt  ruled  on that.
The adjudicator wasnt minded to change his conclusions. He also looked  into the question 
of the account  name change and considered that any delay in the bank carrying this out  
even if the bank was responsible for the delay  didnt  warrant any further  compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the trust but Ive 
reached conclusions  which  are broadly similar to the adjudicators. 
The trust is the complainant, not the trustees. The trust endures as the banks 
customer, while the trustees  come and go like the directors of a company (who would 
Ref: DRN69477602similarly not be the customers).  Under the rules  of the ombudsman  service, its the 
trust that can be compensated, not the trustees.
People coming to us understandably hope  that, in appropriate  cases, our 
investigation will reveal what  actually  happened. Regarding Mr Es status  as a 
signatory, the evidence is such that I cant come to any illuminating conclusion.  
Sometimes the ombudsman service  has to reach a finding of fact on the balance  of 
probabilities, however  sparse the evidence is, since without such a finding it would be 
impossible to resolve the complaint. I dont think that situation applies here.
However, if it did, I think  Id decide  on the balance of probabilities that Mr E, while  
remaining a trustee,  was no longer  an authorised  signatory. The banks records, 
which Ive seen,  show only two authorised  signatories at the time of the deceased 
trustees death, namely the deceased and Mr H. The trust says the last time Mr E 
had been called on to sign for the trust had been  in 1995, when there was a new 
managing trustee and Mr E went to live abroad. There  were changes  of trustees 
after 1995, which would have necessitated changes  to the authorised signatories. 
And the trust says that there were  some non-trustees appointed as authorised 
signatories, of whom Mr H was one. I think its more likely  than not that when the 
trust was completing the paperwork with the bank  to appoint or replace signatories, 
Mr E was no longer  included as a signatory as he was abroad  and therefore  for all 
practical purposes he could no longer act as a signatory. It was of course possible for 
someone to remain a trustee without being  a signatory. 
But in any event,  Im of the clear view that £350  is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience the trust suffered  even  if the banks records  were  wrong  and Mr E 
continued to be a signatory. £350  is one of the higher  awards of compensation  we 
make, and I think it suffices  in any case.  
I too am of the view that the question of the name change for the account, while of 
course it matters, doesnt warrant  any increased  compensation, as it wouldnt have 
caused any substantial inconvenience.  
my final decision
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay D £350. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6947760