K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) stopped  paying  her 
claim under her permanent health insurance  policy and deemed her fit to return to work.
background
Mrs A had a permanent health  insurance with Aviva  as part of a group scheme through her 
previous employer. In October 2015  Mrs A was involved  in a car accident  which  resulted in 
her sustaining serious injuries and she had to undergo  extensive  surgery.  As a result,  Mrs A 
was signed off work sick and made  a successful claim with Aviva  under her health insurance  
policy.
Unfortunately, Mrs A experienced ongoing issues resulting from her accident, including  
chronic pain in both her back  and legs, and was unable to return to work for a prolonged 
period. In February 2017 she attempted a phased return to work but this was unsuccessful 
as she was still experiencing  a lot of pain and found  both the journey to and from work,  as 
well as office environment, very difficult to manage. 
Following the failed attempt to return to work  Aviva  continued to pay Mrs A claim in full. Then 
in July 2017 it arranged for her to attend  an independent medical  examination (IME). The 
IME report was completed in September 2017 and sent to Mrs As employers. It advised that 
Mrs A, whose  role was sedentary in nature,  should  be able to return  to work on a phased  
basis. But the report did say it was likely some reasonable adjustments  would need  to made 
in regard to her work station to ensure her back and legs were adequately supported. 
Mrs A disputed the findings of the IME and said that she was unable  to return to work. She 
said both her GP and the consultant she had been seeing (whom I shall refer to as Mr C) 
regarding her ongoing chronic  pain,  both agreed  she was unable  to return to work. Her 
employer appealed the decision reached by Aviva and in December 2017 requested it 
arrange for Mrs A to meet  with a different doctor for another  examination and a second 
opinion.
Aviva refused the request  for a second opinion and explained to Mrs As employer that it 
would stop making  payments under the claim as the IME had indicated  she was able to 
make a return to work. It did say that it may consider paying a proportion  of the claim to 
reflect the fact that Mrs A would need  to undergo  a phased return  of approximately  8-10 
weeks (as per the reports recommendations) before she could resume full time working  
hours. 
Mrs As employers  began an appeal against  the findings in the report on her behalf. Her 
employer explained  that Mrs A was now attending a pain clinic and was about to start new 
medication. She was experiencing  additional pain in her legs and was having  problems 
sleeping. 
In October  2017, because  Mrs A had not made  any attempt to return to work,  Aviva stopped 
paying her claim. But it agreed to consider the appeal against the decision. In order  to 
ensure she still had an income  from October  2017  Mrs As employer agreed  to cover 
payments Aviva wouldve made to Mrs A under the policys terms and conditions. 
The appeal took several months to complete, and in May 2018 Aviva  agreed to consider any 
up to date medical reports Mrs A could  provide  to indicate she was unable  to return to work 
Ref: DRN63515672in any capacity. Mrs A provided Aviva  with her GP notes, letters  from her consultant  Mr C 
and an occupational health report that her employer had arranged  on her behalf.  The latter 
stated that in April 2018 Mrs A was unfit to work  and it was unlikely she would  be able to 
return to work on a phased return in the immediate future. It recommended a further  review  
in six months after Mrs A had received additional treatment. 
In August  2018,  having reviewed the additional  information provided by Mrs A, Aviva 
confirmed it remained of the opinion there was insufficient evidence to support Mrs A was 
totally incapable of working in her insured role in any capacity. While it acknowledged  the 
information provided in both the GP notes and occupational health report, it also noted Mrs A 
had travelled abroad in late 2017,  and so it remained of the opinion that she should  have 
been able to attempt a phased return to work  in July 2017.  At this point Mrs As employer  
stopped making  payments to Mrs A as the appeal had been unsuccessful. 
Following this Mrs As employer arranged to meet  with her to discuss her options. In January 
2019 a representative for Mrs As employer met with her in home  and explained that as 
Aviva had stopped  paying  her claim, and she remained absent from her work, without any 
likely return  date, it was unable to continue employing her and Mrs A was dismissed.  
Mrs A has complained that Avivas decision to stop paying her claim was unfair and 
ultimately resulted  in her losing her sole source of income at a time when she is unable  to 
find alternative employment due to her ill health. She has said that there is sufficient 
evidence from her GP and consultant to show she was unable  to return  to work and that 
Aviva hasnt considered  this properly. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2020.  In it I found that Aviva had been entitled  
to stop paying Mrs As claim because when she was examined  in July 2017,  she didnt meet 
the definition of incapacitated  as set out in the policys terms and conditions. 
Aviva agreed with my findings. 
Mrs A didnt and asked for an extension in order to gather more evidence  to demonstrate 
that it wouldnt have  been possible for her to return to work in July 2017. Mrs A has since 
provided a number of additional documents from her previous  line manager at her old job, 
from another pain consultant she meets and additional sick notes from her GP.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes all the additional information 
Mrs A has sent to me to review since I issued  my provisional decision. Having done so I still 
think Aviva  was entitled to stop her claim when it did, and Id like to explain why.
I feel it is important to acknowledge  that I have no doubt that Mrs A is living  with chronic pain 
and has been  honest with her doctors,  employers  and in her submissions to Aviva. However,  
what I have to do is establish whether or not Aviva was entitled  to stop paying Mrs As claim 
under the terms  of its policy.
Unfortunately, the information Mrs A has provided since I issued the provision decision 
hasnt changed  my mind  in regard to this matter.  I say this because, while  it confirms her 
employer didnt think she was fit to return to work, the additional medical reports  come  from 
a specialist who met Mrs A in December 2017,  some five months after Aviva  stopped  paying 
her claim. So, Im unable  to place as much  weight on those submissions  as Im on the 
Ref: DRN63515673previous ones made by her pain consultant, Mr C, who had contact with her at time the 
decision was made in July 2017. And Mr C has indicated that he thought  a phased return  
may have  been  possible. This,  along with the information set out in the IME, means  that 
Mrs A didnt meet the definition of incapacitated as set out in policys terms and conditions  
and so Aviva  were allowed to stop paying  her claim.   
Therefore the findings I made  in my provisional decision remain  unchanged.  I set them  out 
below for clarity:
When considering  the actions  of underwriters such as Aviva in cases like these, I need to 
look at what the terms and conditions set out in the policy document say. This is because  
these terms and conditions will explain what is required of both the underwriter  and policy 
holder when making a claim.  
When I looked at the terms and conditions in Mrs As policy documents, I can see it says that 
Aviva will pay claims  where  the policy holder is incapacitated. Incapacity is defined in the 
following way 
The members inability  to perform on a full or part time basis  the duties of his or her normal 
occupation, as a result of their illness or injury. 
Mrs A has provided us with both her GPs notes and letters from her pain consultant, Mr C, to 
demonstrate she was incapacitated.  However,  her GPs notes have limited information in 
them and so it is necessary to consider  the information as provided by her consultant.  In a 
letter to this organisation Mr C stated he didnt  think Mrs A wouldve  been able to return  to 
work in July 2017 due to her limited  mobility. However, it would seem that Mr C was of the 
belief that Mrs A worked full time as a carer and was unaware that her primary role was a 
sedentary one. This was the result of a genuine  misunderstanding as prior to her accident 
Mrs A worked two jobs, one full time in an office  and then also part-time as a carer over the 
weekends. Her insured  role was the full-time  office job. 
When we clarified this to Mr C and asked  him if he was still of the opinion that Mrs A 
wouldve been unable  to return to a sedentary role in 2017,  he told us that while  he would 
still have some concerns  around her lack of mobility and travelling to and from the office,  she 
would potentially have  been able to do the job once she was there. He did maintain that she 
would be unable to return to her caring responsibilities. And while I understand his concerns 
around the potential problems  she may experience in commuting to the office, it seems as 
though he believed she would be capable of performing  her job once she was there. This 
means that both Mr C and the doctor  who saw Mrs A in July 2107 for the IME report, agree it 
wouldve been possible  for her to have attempted a phased return  to work. 
Therefore, while  I appreciate that Mrs A has lived with continued pain and mobility issues,  
Im unable to find that in July 2017 it wouldve been impossible for her to attempt a phased  
return to work, with reasonable adjustments in place to accommodate  her. I have noted  that 
her employer had said it wasnt possible for her to work from home, but it seems as though, 
at the time of the IME, Mrs A was able to travel  for short periods of time and so couldve 
attempted a return to work as per the recommendations set out in the IME report. 
And because a return to work may have been possible in July 2017, I cant safely  conclude 
Mrs A was incapacitated  as per the definition  set out above.  And therefore, she didnt meet  
the standard set out in the policys terms and conditions. And because she didnt meet  that 
Ref: DRN63515674standard, I cant say it was unreasonable for Aviva  to stop paying her claim under the 
permanent health  insurance policy she held through her employee scheme. 
I understand how disappointed Mrs A is. But for the reasons set out above Im unable  to find 
that Aviva  made an error in how it has managed her claim and so Im unable to uphold her 
complaint. 
  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6351567