K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the sale of a reviewable whole of life policy  in 1991. The advice  was 
given by an adviser from Save & Prosper Group  Limited.  This policy  has since been taken 
over by Countrywide Assured Plc.
Mr S says the true nature of the policy wasnt explained to him. He was told if he 
surrendered the policy, hed be paid the premiums back  with interest  something he has 
only recently found to be untrue. He also says he did not require the cover in any event 
because he was unmarried and had no dependants at the time.
Finally, Mr S says Countrywide told him that some policy proceeds were  paid to him in April 
2000, but he never received any payment. 
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr S wants a refund of all the premiums  he has paid since  the 
policy began plus interest.  
background
In July 2018, Mr S asked  Countrywide about the surrender value of his policy. He says that 
the adviser told him in 1991 that he could surrender the policy  at any time, and when he did 
so the policys  value would be the sum assured. 
However, Countrywide said the policys  surrender  value at that time was £316.30. 
Mr S pursued a complaint. He said he had no need  for any life cover in 1991,  and if the 
adviser had properly appreciated his needs at the time, hed have been recommended  a 
savings policy, pension  or some type of investment. He also said the adviser  had not told 
him that the policy was on a maximum cover basis. In fact, he had said a small proportion  
of each premium would pay for life cover and the remainder would be paid into an 
investment.  
Countrywide rejected  the complaint. It said the adviser had made clear that Mr Ss policy  had 
been set up on a maximum cover basis. The terms and conditions  made  clear  that this policy  
was not designed to accrue a surrender value. It did note that in April 2000 Mr S was paid 
the proceeds of his policy of £582.99   and the cover continued  thereafter.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint, but she did not think  it should succeed. She 
said she believed the policy  was a reasonable recommendation  for Mr Ss circumstances at 
the time.  He didnt  have any other  protection  policies,  and though  he did not have 
dependants, he did want cover for his partner. Mr S had signed the paperwork at the time, 
confirming his circumstances. Finally, our adjudicator  could not find any evidence  that Mr S 
had been told the policy would have  a surrender value akin to the sum assured. 
Mr S did not agree.  He said:
he didnt say the adviser told him he would be paid the policys sum assured if he 
surrendered the policy;
what he expected  to be paid was the total value  of the policy premiums, with interest;
he told the adviser he had looked at different types of life insurance elsewhere;
his girlfriend (now  wife)  was also mis-sold  the same type of policy from the adviser at 
the time;
Ref: DRN64958082he was never told his policy was a whole  of life policy  it was always referred to as a 
personal protection account or an investment;
he did sign the paperwork  at the time, but the adviser completed it;
he does not have any recollection of being  paid a cheque for the policys proceeds in 
April 2000 despite Countrywide insisting it had sent it;
he believes the fair outcome is to return his policy  premiums.   
Our adjudicator reconsidered the further points Mr S had made.  But she was not persuaded 
to change her view. 
She understood the policy was named as a personal protection  account but confirmed to Mr 
S that it was a whole  of life policy. She also said that the evidence did not support that Mr S 
was told hed get a return on the investment of the premiums equivalent to what  he had paid 
in. She reiterated  how maximum cover  whole of life policies operated  and explained that Mr 
Ss policy did not have  any type of guaranteed return, as might be the case  with other types 
of investment policies.  
The adjudicator also said that there was no evidence of the cheque having  been cashed. But 
there was a copy of the cheque and when  it was issued.  She had no reason to conclude this 
amount wasnt paid to Mr S at the time.
Mr S still didnt  agree. He provided a copy of his bank statement from early 2000  to show  he 
had not cashed the cheque.  He also said he questioned why his application was in October  
1991 but the policy did not start until February 1992 and why there was no evidence of it 
being written in trust for his partner. 
Our adjudicator noted the supplied bank statement was from an expenses account   one to 
which Mr S had made various  transfers.  And she also noted that the copy  of the cheque  was 
actually dated  in October 1999 so Mr S may have  cashed it earlier than Countrywide  had 
suggested. She asked  for Mr S to seek evidence of his statements from the relevant period. 
Countrywide supplied  evidence that the policy was written in trust. It also explained that Mr 
Ss policy start date was delayed because of medical underwriting.     
Mr S was able supply his bank statements  for his other account over the relevant period. Our 
adjudicator agreed  that Mr S had not likely been  paid the proceeds cheque  as Mr S had 
supplied his full statements  and the cheque had not been cashed. 
Countrywide didnt  accept our adjudicators thoughts regarding the cheque.  Since neither 
party fully agreed  with the outcome of the complaint, the matter  was referred for a decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our adjudicator and for principally the same  reasons. 
In his complaint,  Mr S says he didnt have any reason to take out life cover in 1991/1992.  He 
says this is because  he was unmarried at that time and he didnt  have any dependants.  
However, being young or without dependant children or family members doesnt,  of itself, 
render a protection policy unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN64958083Whether the advisers  recommendation was suitable depends on Mr Ss particular 
circumstances at the time of the sale. Looking  at the documentation  he signed at the time, it 
confirmed Mr S was living with his girlfriend (now  wife) and the policy was written  in trust in 
1992 naming her and her family as beneficiaries. Mr S was in employment. It was recorded  
that he had no savings, protection policies or investments. 
The policy literature says the cover is designed to meet both current  and future protection 
needs. I do not agree that the policy was an unsuitable recommendation for Mr S. He did 
have documented  liabilities and contributed to the household income when living  with his 
partner. Though  it can often be the case that taking out a form of life insurance accompanies 
a specific financial liability (such as a mortgage), that doesnt  preclude a person from taking 
out life cover for wider family or lifestyle protection in the event he or she was to pass away. 
That appears to be the case here. Mr S signed  paperwork from the time of the sale that 
confirms he wanted  to maintain the family  standard of living if you were  to die. That is not 
an unreasonable consideration. Further, Mr Ss circumstances  could well have changed in 
the future.  Taking  out a whole of life policy where  he didnt already have any other type of 
insurance was not an unreasonable  suggestion. I also consider that Mr Ss confirmation  he 
wanted the policy to be written  in trust for his wife is further evidence that he would wish to 
have a lump sum payment of life assurance in the event of his death. 
I recognise that Mr S says he was completely misled about  the nature  of the policy  when he 
took it out. Specifically, he says he was told that the policy was an investment, rather than a 
lifelong form of insurance. This means  that Mr S believed until recently that it guaranteed  the 
return of his premiums at any time, if he chose to surrender  the policy. He believed  that 
would be the surrender  value of the policy,  not the value of £316.30 that he was quoted in 
2018. 
That is not how this policy operates and Mr S knows that now. The policy is a maximum 
cover whole of life policy. The basis of the cover is that the premiums  are used to sustain the 
policys sum assured.  The policy is reviewed  every five years  to establish if the premiums 
paid and the underlying  investment  have sufficient value to sustain the cost of life cover for 
the next five years. The policy terms say that if the [investment] fund earns less than 8%, 
you may have to choose between paying more for the same  amount of life assurance  and 
reducing your life assurance. 
So if the policy fails a review, Mr S is given three  options  to increase his premiums to 
maintain his selected sum assured, to reduce the sum assured and keep the premiums the 
same, or to reduce the sum assured to a lower value (a guaranteed  sum assured) which  will 
remain the same for the life of the policy. For the last two policy  reviews  (2012 and 2017) Mr 
S has increased his premium in order to maintain the selected sum assured.  
I realise Mr S says he was told something  materially different by the adviser in 1991,  and 
that his wife was present to the misleading  advice.  Where there is a conflict  of evidence  from 
a certain event or meeting,  I must  make  my findings on what I think is most likely  in the 
circumstances  on the balance of probabilities. Though  I do not doubt Mr Ss recollections, 
these conflict from the other  available evidence. 
The policy documentation given to Mr S expressly says that the type of cover is unlikely to 
accrue a surrender value, because the premium payments are primarily used to maintain the 
ongoing selected sum assured. It sets out that:
Ref: DRN64958084Surrendering your policy
Your policy may acquire  a cash surrender  value,  but it is not intended  to be a savings 
plan. You may surrender  the policy completely or partially at any time, but it is very 
important that you realise  the surrender value will be relatively small within  the first 
five years,  and in the case of Maximum Cover  there  may be no surrender value 
throughout.
I can see Mr S says that the use of the words investment statement on his annual policy 
documentation is confusing. It refers to the underlying with-profits  fund where the premiums 
are invested.  The policy wording does also explain this:
Type of policy
The policy is "with-profits which means that it is entitled to receive a share of
the profits of the life fund (appropriate to this class of business) of Save &
Prosper Insurance Limited in the form of a terminal bonus. This bonus is determined 
by reference to changes in value  of the underlying fund and is designed to give 
policyholders their share of the investment earnings of that fund in excess of the 
amount required  to meet the guarantees  underlying  the policy.
If Mr S had reviewed the policy documentation at the time and noted  it conflicted with what 
the adviser told him, he could have raised this or declined to proceed  with the application. 
Mr S submits that the fair outcome to this complaint would  be to treat that misinformation as 
if it was actually correct  and return the premiums  he has paid. If I believed the policy had 
been mis-sold to Mr S then redress might involve  a refund of premiums, if the policy ought 
never to have been recommended to him in the first place. But I dont believe the policy has 
been mis-sold to him. Nor do I consider  that it is reasonable  to assume the misinformation 
was correct, given  the policy documentation is clear on how it operates. I wont therefore be 
proposing redress  of that nature and Im not upholding  this aspect of the complaint.  
I do consider that Mr S did not likely receive the cheque Save & Prosper issued to him for 
policy proceeds of £582.99. Mr S has supplied all of his bank  statements for the period the 
cheque was valid; it was not paid in to any of his accounts. Further,  there is no other 
evidence around  payment  to Mr S  though  there is a file copy  of a cheque,  there are no 
letters to Mr S or other  evidence to confirm the reason for the payment  or that Mr S had 
cashed the cheque.   
It is unclear what the proceeds payment was for. In its final response letter to Mr S of 21 
August 2018,  Countrywide referred  to this as a surrender value. It now deems it as a 
proceeds payment  representing the policys value as at October 1999. Countrywide does not 
dispute the payment was owing to Mr S. Its view is that it was a value he had asked to be 
paid at the time. It says:
whilst the policy has accumulated a surrender  value  in the past, due to past 
performance and the cost of the cover  increasing due to age, the policy  is unlikely to 
build up a substantial  surrender value  at any point going forward. 
Countrywide accepts  Mr S was owed  the sum issued to him by Save & Prosper. And I 
consider on balance that Mr S did not actually  receive the payment, despite the cheque  
Ref: DRN64958085being issued.  Like our adjudicator, I believe this cheque ought  to be reissued to Mr S and 
Countrywide should do so since it has now taken over the operation  of this policy.
my final decision
I do not believe Mr Ss whole of life policy  was mis-sold, and I do not uphold that aspect of 
this complaint.  
However, I do believe he did not receive  the £582.99 proceeds cheque. I direct Countrywide  
Assured Plc to issue a further cheque for the missing amount, to Mr S within  14 days, should 
Mr S confirm  he accepts the decision.  
Interest should  be added  at gross rate of 8% simple per annum from October  1999  to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.  
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6495808