K821x#15complaint
Miss C has complained about her home care cover supplier British Gas Insurance  Limited 
(BG). She says it let her down when she needed  its assistance with an electrical problem at 
her home. This has caused her extra costs  as well as upset. Shed like those reimbursed, 
compensation paid and her premium refunded.
background
Miss C had a problem in December  2017  and a BG engineer attended  her home.  He 
reported fixing a loose connection. Miss C says she didnt see him do anything other than 
turn the power back on.
Later Miss C found problems  with her burglar alarm. She was advised  by the alarm 
company that the alarm should  have been  protected before power was reconnected. She 
was advised to buy some new batteries but when this didnt work  a repair became  
necessary. All this cost around £200.
Into January 2018 Miss C lost power to her upstairs  lights. She thought  there must be an 
underlying problem that BG had missed  before. On 20 January 2018 a further engineer 
attended. He disconnected the whole  supply and told Miss C to call BG again the following 
day. Miss C did and an engineer attended on 22 January 2018. He felt there was an 
inherent fault with the system  which  wasnt something the BG policy would cover for. He 
made the main  supply  safe so Miss C had power  but the upstairs lights  remained off.
On 24 January  a BG engineer attended to check the power supply to the alarm, following 
Miss C having complained about  the costs  shed incurred.  The engineer  found  the power 
supply to the alarm was fine but explained he couldnt examine or test the alarm itself.  He 
noted the same issue with the electrical  installation as the previous engineers.
On 6 March a further BG engineer visited Miss Cs home. He again  noted the fault with the 
system and told Miss C that whilst  he could  provide  a quote for fixing this, shed have to pay 
for the work.  Miss C reports she was told the system was a fire hazard and that shed been  
advised by previous engineers of the same problem.  Miss C said she hadnt and asked the 
engineer to leave.  She called BG and told it how worried she was. BG said the system  had 
been made safe but when  Miss C said shed just been told differently by its engineer, BG 
agreed to have a service  manager attend.  Six-days later this hadnt been arranged,  and nor 
could BG tell Miss C when this might occur.
Miss C arranged for her electrics to be tested herself. No fault was found. The electrician 
also replaced a light switch which Miss C said BG had changed without her permission 
(from a dimmer  to an on/off switch). This cost £468. The electrician carried  out further  tests  
on the installation;  he was satisfied the circuitry was fine but found an extractor  fan to be 
faulty and fixed  it. This cost £150 (£75 of which was for fixing the extractor).
Miss C complained about what had happened  and when she didnt get a response from 
BG, she made  a complaint to this service. Our investigator felt that there wasnt enough  
evidence to say what had happened or if BG was at fault. He said Miss C should  get a 
report to show what caused the fault with the electrics.
Miss C obtained a report. This cost her £140. The report concluded there  was no issue  with 
the electrical installation. The electrician also advised that the BG engineer  should  have  
Ref: DRN68547872taken more care to find out about  the alarm  and protect it before reconnecting the supply.
A new investigator considered the complaint. She felt BG should pay the alarm costs,  
based on the report provided  by Miss Cs electrician. But she felt the conclusion in the 
report  that the electrical installation didnt have a defect,  was likely flawed because the 
report had been  done after Miss C had completed  work. So she didnt think it was fair to 
make BG pay for Miss Cs costs incurred checking  her electrical system. As the report had 
changed part of the outcome of the complaint, the investigator said BG should  reimburse  
half of its cost to Miss C.
Miss C was unhappy. She pointed out that wed advised her to get the report, even knowing 
work had been done. She didnt think it was fair wed then discounted the report for that 
very reason. BG didnt  reply.
Miss C summarised her costs as totalling £948.10.  This included the £75 extractor fan 
repair and the electricians report shed obtained at the direction of our first investigator.
The complaint was passed  to me and I felt BG should  reimburse Miss C £873.10 (her total 
cost minus £75 for repairing the extractor  fan) and pay interest* on each sum that makes  up 
that amount  from the date that cost was incurred until settlement is made. I also felt it 
should pay Miss C £250 compensation. I explained  all that in the following provisional 
findings:
Ive seen  no evidence that Miss C was left with clear information following each engineers 
visit about what was done, what had been found  and what this meant for Miss C in terms of 
her cover. Nor have I seen any letter being sent from BG to Miss C following receipt of its 
engineers reports/notes.  Im not satisfied  Miss C was clearly told what  was wrong  and what  
she needed to do to resolve it.
BG has said that the problem its engineers found  was that the amp in use for the lighting 
cables was too big, given the width and installation type of two of the lighting cables.  This 
meant the amp and/or cabling could overheat  (Im not sure which   BG hasnt been 
particularly clear) and cause the circuit  to break.  Given  Miss Cs electricians report, and the 
test she had done earlier in 2018 before  complaining to this service, set against  the very 
limited (and, therefore, unpersuasive) evidence BG has provided, I dont think  BGs 
engineers were correct  in this respect.
Prior to making her complaint Miss C had the system tested and the contractor reported 
there were no problems with it. Miss C didnt, therefore, carry out any work on the system.  
When her electrician completed his recent report he detailed the same  width cabling and 
amp size as recorded  by BG. But he found no issue with this, he said the installation met 
with regulations and provided an industry  standard certification of this.
I appreciate that BG may work to slightly  different  guidelines. And Im sure if this is the 
case, and BG had taken the time to properly explain  things to Miss C after it first found a 
problem at her home, then Miss Cs own testing costs could have been avoided.
I havent seen  that Miss C authorised  the engineer to change the type of light switch. If the 
engineer felt a dimmer switch couldnt or shouldnt be used for some reason,  this should 
have been clearly explained  to Miss C. Ive seen  nothing to show that it was.
Miss Cs electricians  report said BG should  have taken greater care when at her home  to 
Ref: DRN68547873safeguard the alarm system from damage. Im satisfied its fair to make BG reimburse the 
costs Miss C had as a result of it failing to do that.
Miss Cs report  has influenced the outcome of her complaint. I think  its reasonable, 
therefore, to require BG to reimburse its cost.
Miss C has been out of pocket for the funds Ive now said BG should reimburse. To account  
for that, BG should  pay interest on each amount from the date Miss C paid that figure until it 
makes settlement following my final decision,  should my findings remain  the same and 
Miss C accepts it.
The policy offers cover  for fixing the homes electrical supply and wiring. It doesnt offer 
cover for fixing faults with appliances that may create problems  with the system. So I cant  
reasonably make BG reimburse the £75 Miss C was charged for that repair.
Whilst Miss C clearly  had an issue with BG regarding the electrical installation, the policy  
offers cover for problems with drains, the boiler  and the gas supply. So the policy  still 
provided cover to Miss C. I dont think its reasonable to require BG to refund her premium.
Miss C was left without power, or with only partial power, on more  than one occasion.
I accept this was very distressing for her. Even  if BG felt it was doing the right thing  in order 
to protect  her and her home  against  a safety  issue, as I said above, it never clearly 
explained that to her. If it had I dont  think shed have kept ringing and let the situation go on 
for as long as it did. Im satisfied that £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
In response Miss C said she had nothing  further  to provide and confirmed she accepted my 
findings. BG objected to what  Id said.
BG accepted that its initial contractor didnt properly  investigate the issue  at Miss Cs home,  
but said it did leave  it safe. It said its next contractor felt the dimmer switch was the issue,  
and so replaced it. But it accepts now this wasnt the cause of the problem. BG said its third 
contractor looked  at things more carefully  and found  the issue  with the cabling. It maintains 
this was not to standard. BG said it doesnt accept that restoring the power could have 
caused any problem  with the alarm.  In fact, BG said, it had received  advice  from a manager 
that suggested the fault with the fan might  have damaged the alarm.  It said the evidence 
from Miss Cs electrician  is flawed because he hasnt produced an electrical installation  
condition report.  This means it cant be understood what  the noted  cabling is supplying 
which it feels is necessary to consider the validity of its actions further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The explanation now provided by BG of its contractors actions makes it even clearer  that it 
failed Miss C. It also affirms that Miss C wasnt  told from the outset of the cabling  problem  
that BG perceived  to be causing  the issue at her home. 
BG hasnt  provided any expert assessment of the alarm, such  as to make  me think  a) it 
didnt need to isolate it, or that b) its failure to do so didnt cause a problem with it. Whilst 
I note BGs view that a condition report is needed for the cabling to be considered  further, 
Ref: DRN68547874Im satisfied the report and certification issued by Miss Cs electrician sufficiently shows  
there is no issue with the cabling. 
Whilst Ive reviewed BGs objections, they havent changed my view on this complaint.  The 
outcome remains as that stated provisionally and my provisional findings now form part of 
this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Miss C:
 £873.10 in settlement  of costs she incurred due to its failures,  plus interest* on each 
figure that makes up this sum, from the date Miss C paid it until settlement is made.
 £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If British Gas 
Insurance Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to
Miss C, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6854787