K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a loan. 
AXA France  IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility  for the sale.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 30 December 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
it was most likely this policy had been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
13 January 2020.  But neither AXA nor Mrs H sent me any new evidence or arguments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has added anything new for me to consider. So having  reconsidered the case, 
Ive come to the same  conclusion as before  that if AXA had made  it clear  the policy wasnt  
right for Mrs H, or if it had given her clear  enough  information about its exclusions, then its 
most likely she would not have bought it.
putting things right
AXA France  IARD should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out the PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been already, and AXA should:
Pay Mrs H back the amount she paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must  give Mrs H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN61370682my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint about  AXA France IARD. AXA France IARD should put things right by doing  what  
I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61370683COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy for a loan. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple,  Ill only refer to AXA 
in this decision,  rather  than any other business.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out with a loan in 2004. It was paid for with a regular  
monthly premium, which  didnt attract interest.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.  
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Mrs Hs PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
It looks like AXA recommended the policy  to Mrs H, so it had to check  it was right for her. But I dont 
think it was right for her.
Mrs H had a medical  condition when she bought the policy, which would not have been covered. 
From what shes told us, the conditions severe symptoms had caused her to be unable to work and 
to take time off. She said shed also had to take time off for doctors  visits  in the recent months before 
this sale.  She had trouble keeping  the condition  under control, and had to use different prescribed 
medicines. So it looks like this wouldve  mattered to Mrs H. Indeed, she may have considered this 
condition to be the most  likely  thing  to cause her to be off sick in future.  But it looks  like this policy 
excluded any claims for time off work  for her condition, or any claims that otherwise resulted from her 
condition. So Mrs H couldnt  have claimed  on the policy for everything she mightve  reasonably 
expected to be able to.
I havent seen any evidence showing that Mrs H was asked  about her medical situation at the sale,  or 
that it was taken into sufficient  account in the advice. And I cant see that AXA gave  her clear  
information about the policys key exclusions  at the time, either.
If AXA had made it clear the policy wasnt right for Mrs H, or if it had given her clear enough 
information about its exclusions,  then it seems most likely  she would not have  bought it. So I think its 
most likely that Mrs H lost out because of the flaws  in this sale.
putting things  right
I propose that AXA France IARD puts Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out the PPI. The policy should  be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and AXA 
should:
Pay Mrs H back the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% simple a year.
Ref: DRN61370684If Mrs H made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy,  AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must  give Mrs H a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint,  and to direct AXA France IARD to 
put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  AXA and Mrs H send me any more information or comments  to look at by 13 January 
2020. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6137068