K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his account while he was abroad, leaving 
him without  access to funds. The bank then closed his account  and wont  return money  held 
in it.
background
In December 2018 Mr K was abroad on holiday.  A faster  payment  of £10,000 was made to 
his account. Santander took the view that it needed  to look into the payment and blocked 
Mr Ks account while it did that.  
Mr K contacted Santander to discuss what had happened and to try to remove  the block  
from his account. He told the bank that the money  had come  from a colleague, Mr P, who 
was sending him money from the sale of a car for his (Mr Ks) holiday. Santander wasnt 
satisfied with the explanation it had been  given  and asked Mr K to provide evidence  of where 
the money had come  from.  
When he returned to the UK Mr K went to a Santander branch with documents  including 
what appeared to be a sales  invoice showing he had sold a car to Mr P and evidence of the 
transfer from Mr Ps bank account.  Santander  didnt lift the block on the account and gave 
Mr K notice that it would  close the account after 30 days.
Mr K referred the matter to this service  and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. Mr K said that he had sold his car to Mr P for £10,000. The investigator noted 
however that Mr P had told his own bank that hed lent Mr K £10,000. Mr K hadnt  provided 
any official document showing a transfer  of the vehicle  from him to Mr P. Given  these 
apparent inconsistencies, the investigator  didnt  think Santander had acted unfairly in acting 
as it had. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  that an ombudsman review  the case.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
When Mr K first contacted  the bank about  the payment,  he said that the money was from the 
sale of a car and that Mr P had sent the money to him for his holiday. He didnt say that the 
money was for a car Mr P had bought from Mr K. When however  Mr K brought  the complaint  
to this service he said thats what had happened   and produced  what  he said were 
documents demonstrating that. 
I would however make the following observations on what Mr K has produced: 
The invoice  is dated either  3 or 13 December (the handwriting isnt entirely clear, 
although I dont believe thats significant). It records  that Mr P had paid £10,000. But the 
bank transfer wasnt made  until 18 December. I would expect the sales invoice to carry 
the same date as the payment and the transfer of the car.  
Mr K also produced  a copy of a confirmation of a statutory off-road notification (or 
SORN) which expired on 17 December 2018.  That was in his name. Its evidence  that 
Ref: DRN66782522Mr K was the registered keeper at some point before that date, but its not a transfer 
document and it doesnt show how long before 17 December 2018 Mr K was the 
keeper.   
Mr K also provided a copy of a V5 registration  document in Mr Ps name. That 
document says however  that Mr P acquired the vehicle  on 9 June 2018  some six 
months before  Mr K says he sold it to Mr P. 
It may be that Mr K can explain these  apparent discrepancies.  But, in the circumstances, I 
can understand why Santander wanted to know about the funds that were  paid into Mr Ks 
account. I can understand too why it didnt  consider  that Mr K had adequately explained their 
source.
I note that Mr K has suggested  that Santander has discriminated against him  that is, its 
based its decision on his characteristics rather than on events. Im not persuaded thats the 
case though. Im satisfied  its actions  were prompted  by legitimate concerns about the source 
of the funds paid into Mr Ks account,  and his responses to those concerns.   
For these reasons I dont  believe that Santander  acted unfairly in blocking Mr Ks account or 
in later closing it in the way it did        
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Santander  UK Plc to take any further  steps to resolve 
Mr Ks complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6678252