K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1997. Mrs R says Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs R took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs R hasnt said much about  what happened  when she was sold PPI  but this isnt 
unusual for a sale that took place so long ago. So the first thing I need to consider is if 
FICL made it clear  that the PPI was optional, and gave Mrs R a choice  in taking the 
policy, and having done so I think that FICL did. I say this because FICL  has provided a 
copy of Mrs Rs store card application  and I can see that the policy  is presented as 
optional, and has been selected  with a tick. Mrs R has then signed the application, 
agreeing to the information on it.  
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said, including  what  shes  said about having  good 
sick pay from her employer she couldve  used  to make the repayments. But the PPI couldve  
paid out on top of, and for longer than Mrs R had cover for, so this point doesnt change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Ref: DRN61467202Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6146720