K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of Mrs R. They  are unhappy about the way Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc treated Mrs R when she experienced financial difficulties. 
background
In July 2017 Mrs R was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional  sale agreement.
In January 2018 Mrs Rs circumstances changed and she experienced financial difficulties. 
Mr R contacted Santander to obtain  a settlement figure and asked whether the agreement  
could be extended  so the monthly payment could be reduced.  Mr R also asked whether (if 
the car was sold)  the outstanding balance could be converted to a personal loan.
Santander said it couldnt extend the finance agreement.  It said if the car was sold it would 
require full settlement  of the balance in one payment. 
Mr R contacted Santander again  in February  2018.  He said Mrs R was unable to make  the 
repayments and asked again  whether the car could  be sold and the balance converted  to a 
personal loan.  Santander  said this wasnt possible.
Mr R contacted Santander again  in April 2018. He said hed spoken to the dealership and 
had decided to sell the car. Santander  agreed  to put the account on hold until 10 May 2018  
to allow  the part exchange to take place, but said that after this date payments would 
continue to be taken  which  might result in further  late repayment fees and charges which  
could affect Mrs Rs credit file.
Mr R contacted Santander again  on 5 May 2018,  having received a default  notice  on 26 April 
2018. He said the dealership had taken the car but hadnt yet provided a new car. Santander 
advised Mr R that because no payments had been made  a default notice had been sent and 
that if payments  werent made or the account  wasnt settled by 26 May 2018 further action 
might be taken.
Following this, Mrs R applied  for finance  for a new car but Santander  declined  the 
application.
Mr R contacted Santander on 24 May 2018  to complain about the finance being declined.  He 
said he didnt understand why the finance  application was being  treated as a new loan 
application. He wanted the existing agreement transferred from the Range  Rover to his new 
car. Santander said it wasnt able to transfer finance from one car to another.
Mr R says he was left in a position  where he had a liability of £11,758.30  if he voluntary 
terminated the agreement. Or, if he sold the car to the dealership, he would  be liable to pay 
the balance due under  the agreement of approximately £4,500 within  7 days.  Mr R said he 
couldnt afford to pay this. He wanted Santander  to allow him to sell the car and write off the 
balance.
In its final response,  Santander said it had made Mr R aware that the agreement wasnt 
transferable. It said it had also made him aware that the dealership  wasnt able to part settle  
the agreement. It confirmed the settlement figure  was £24,194.01 and that the voluntary 
termination liability was £11,758.30.
Ref: DRN66241972Mr R wasnt happy with Santanders response so he complained  to this service.
Our investigator thought Santander couldve done more to help Mrs R when she told it she 
was experiencing financial  difficulties. The investigator also though  it was unfair  of 
Santander to tell Mr R the account was on hold when this wasnt  the case. The investigator 
recommended that Santander pay compensation to reflect the distress  and inconvenience  
caused.
Santander didnt  agree. It said it hadnt  told Mr R the agreement  was on hold but that it 
would be reviewed at the next due date. It also dais that in response to being advised of Mrs 
Rs financial  difficulties it had provided information  about voluntary termination.
Mr and Mrs R werent  happy with the investigators  view either  so Ive been asked to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer gets into financial difficulties a business should treat them in a positive 
and sympathetic way. Ive therefore looked at how Santander responded when Mr R 
contacted them about Mrs Rs financial difficulties.
The first time Mr R mentioned financial difficulties  was when he contacted Santander in 
February 2018. Ive listened to the call. Mr R told Santander that Mrs R was unemployed and 
unable to make the repayments. Santander provided information about  voluntary 
termination. Its clear from the conversation that Mr R was looking to sell the car and arrange 
for the balance to be repaid over a period of time. He wanted to do this by having the 
balance converted  to a personal loan.
Although Santander provided correct information about  voluntary  termination, it didnt 
provide information  about reaching an arrangement to pay the liability  amount. I think 
Santander shouldve  been aware from the conversation it had with Mr R that he was trying to 
sell the car and pay off whatever balance was left over a period of time. Santander couldve 
asked Mrs R to provide an income and expenditure form so that other options could be 
explored.
By leaving Mrs R in a position where  she thought she was unable to pay any liability under a 
payment arrangement,  I think Santander caused her additional  distress  at an already 
stressful time.
I appreciate that Mrs R was worried when she received  the default notice. The default notice 
was sent after a conversation in which Santander  told Mr R that the account was on hold.
I cant say that Santander  acted  unfairly when it sent the default  notice  because  the account 
was in arrears. However, I dont  think Santander acted fairly in telling Mr R the account was 
on hold when it wasnt. Santander has said it didnt tell Mr R the account  was on hold but 
instead told him it would  be reviewed  at the next due date. Having listened to the call I dont 
agree. The adviser  told Mr R the account  was on hold until 5 May. This was incorrect 
information and I think Mrs R was caused additional  distress when she received  the default  
notice at a time when  she thought the account was on hold.
Ref: DRN66241973Mr R says Santander told him the existing finance  could be part settled and transferred to a  
new car. He also says he was told that any new application for finance would be approved.
Having listened  to the call recordings Im unable  to agree with Mr R. I think Santander  made 
it clear to Mr R that the agreement would need  to be settled in full. I cant find any instance  of 
Santander suggesting to Mr R that a new application for finance would be successful. I can 
also see that Santander emailed Mr R and specifically explained that part exchanging didnt 
mean transferring finance from one car to another.
Mr R wants to be refunded for the costs hes incurred in applying for an Uber licence which 
he intended to use with the new car. I can see that Mr R made his application to Uber before 
he had the conversation with Santander about his intention to sell/part exchange the car. I 
cant find anything to suggest that Santander  encouraged Mr R to apply to Uber, or that 
Santander gave  incorrect advice about  part exchange. In my view, the decision to apply to 
Uber was that of Mr R alone,  perhaps encouraged by his friends.
Santander has recently advised  this service that it issued  a default notice with the intention  
of terminating  the agreement  and repossessing  the car, because  no payments have been 
made under the agreement since April 2018. Up until now, Santander has placed the 
intended action  on hold but given  the length  of time the agreement has been in arrears it has 
decided to terminate  the agreement and hold the car pending  my final decision.
Taking all of the circumstances of the case into consideration, I dont think Santander has 
acted unreasonably in terminating  the agreement. 
Although I think Santander couldve done more when it was advised about Mrs Rs financial 
difficulties, I dont think the balance should  be written  off. So once Santander has sold the 
car it should try to reach agreement with Mrs R as to payment  of the balance (including any 
arrears).
Ive already explained why I think Santander should have done more  and why I think  it 
provided incorrect information. Because of this, I think  Santander  should  pay compensation 
to Mrs R.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should 
pay compensation of £100 for failing  to do more in response to Mrs Rs financial difficulties 
and £200 for the distress caused  when it sent a default notice at a time when Mrs R 
reasonably believed that the account was on hold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6624197