K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Virgin Money  plc charged interest on her 0% credit card. It put her in 
financial difficulty.
background
Mrs M had a credit card account with Virgin Money. She had a large balance at a 0% 
promotional interest  rate. But she received  a letter saying  her interest rate would be 
increasing. So she contacted Virgin Money to say she wanted  to close  the account  and 
wouldnt use the card anymore. Mrs M expected the promotional rate to remain  for the 
lifetime of the balance.  She said Virgin Money  confirmed that was the case. But her interest  
increased to £185  a month. So she wants the account changing back to the 0% rate as 
shed been promised. 
Virgin Money said itd acted correctly by charging interest on the balance. Mrs M had been 
informed she would  be charged the standard  interest rate when the promotional  rate expired. 
But it agreed its service hadnt  been  of the standard it expected to deliver. Its adviser had 
stated they would raise  a complaint and call Mrs M back. But it hadnt done  so. So it offered  
£125 as a gesture of goodwill for the delay in is response.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  with Virgin  Moneys  response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. The terms and conditions of the account stated the 
current standard interest rate would be charged after a promotional rate ended.  And she felt 
thatd been explained to Mrs M. Although  Mrs M didnt want  to accept  the rate increase that 
didnt mean  interest  would no longer  be applied  to the balance. Our investigator  didnt think  
the 0% interest  rate had been removed incorrectly. And she felt the offer of £125 
compensation for the delay in dealing with the complaint was reasonable.
Mrs M didnt  agree. Virgin Money  had confirmed she would keep her 0% rate if she closed 
her account.  All she had to do was pay the minimum each month.  Virgin Money  hadnt  
explained clearly  the standard rate would apply.  And her account showed an available 
balance even though it was supposed to be closed. 
my provisional findings
Because Mrs M didnt  agree, this complaint  was passed to an ombudsman to consider. I 
took a slightly  different  view to our investigator. So I issued a provisional decision setting out 
my view and inviting  further comments. In summary I said:
Mrs M didnt want to accept the new interest rate when  the promotional  period ended.  
She spoke to Virgin Money and said she wouldnt be using the card any more.  And 
shes sure Virgin confirmed the promotional rate would remain  on her account.  
Although Mrs M said she wouldnt use her card any more this didnt  mean the 
account had actually closed. Virgin Money couldnt  close  an account  with a balance  
outstanding. But I dont think the letter makes  this very clear.  And the letter also says 
Virgin Money will continue to charge the current rates of interest on the outstanding 
balance until it had been repaid. So I can understand why Mrs M felt this meant  her 
current rate of 0% would  continue  to apply until the card had been cleared.
Ref: DRN64679592The monthly account statements do show when the 0% promotional rates are due to 
end. But Mrs M was under the impression if she didnt use the account any more  it 
would remain at the 0% rate. 
Ive listened  to the calls between Mrs M and Virgin Money. And I dont  think  its 
representative does  enough to explain the situation. He notes the promotional rate is 
due to end on 13 August.  And the account would go to the standard rate. Be he also 
says because Mrs M has opted out it will stay the same  as it is at the moment. And 
when Mrs M says so it wont change?  he confirms it wont. When Mrs M asks for 
confirmation its going to stay as it is until its paid off he answers yes thats right. 
So I looked at whether  it was reasonable Virgin Money should pay more 
compensation that the £125  already  offered for the delayed response to Mrs Ms 
complaint. Mrs M received a poor level of service when Virgin  Money failed to call her 
back. But I felt she also received misleading information about  her account. 
Her monthly minimum repayment increased  considerably and this caused  Mrs M 
financial difficulty until she was able to make other arrangements.  Taking everything 
into account I thought the sum of £200 better reflected the trouble  caused  to Mrs M.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mrs M didnt  think  £200 went far enough  to compensate for the distress  caused. But she 
wanted to resolve  the issue. So she was prepared to accept the increased  amount.
Virgin Money felt its offer of £125 for the delay in its response was fair. It said its agent 
hadnt intentionally misled Mrs M. And the correct  information had been given to her during 
the call. The credit agreement and terms explained the situation regarding  interest  rates. 
And the monthly  statements  showed  the promotional  rate, expiry  date and standard rate of 
interest. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M contacted Virgin Money  in October  2018  when  she began incurring interest on her 
balance. She was told a complaint would be raised  and she would be contacted after itd 
been investigated. But Virgin Money didnt  get in touch with her. And in February  2019  she 
was offered £125 for the delayed response. 
Ive carefully considered  why Mrs M thought she would  be able to keep the zero interest rate 
on her balance after the promotional period ended. And what  information she received from 
Virgin Money to explain  the correct position.
Ive listened to Mrs Ms earlier call when she asked to opt out of the interest rate increase. 
Mrs M asks repeatedly for confirmation that the interest rate will stay the same. Virgin 
Moneys representative mentions the promotional  offer but says yes thats correct  when 
Mrs M asks if her rate will stay as it is until its paid off. 
Ref: DRN64679593He also says I can see you do have  a promotional offer until the 13th August 2018 from that 
point onwards you will drop onto the standard interest rate so because youve opted out that 
will stay the same as what it currently is at the moment and he confirms it wont  change 
when Mrs M asks again.
Virgin Moneys letter of 17 April 2018 acknowledges Mrs M doesnt  want to accept  the 
increase on the interest rates on her credit card. And it asks her to destroy the card as she 
will no longer be able to make any new transactions. The letter  states we will continue to 
charge the current  rates  of interest on your outstanding balance until you repay your balance  
in full.
Based on the telephone conversation and follow-up letter,  I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for Mrs M to believe that she could  stop using the account and retain  her promotional rate  
even if that wasnt  correct. As a result she didnt make any other  arrangements  for her 
outstanding balance.
When Mrs M received her October statement she noticed the monthly  interest had 
increased. When she contacted Virgin Money it explained her promotional  period had ended.  
Mrs M said shed  spoken to the business  earlier and been assured her account had been 
closed down and the interest rate frozen.  Virgin Money explained  the account couldnt  be 
closed while a balance  remained  and the promotional offer had expired the previous month  
and couldnt be extended. So Mrs M asked for a complaint to be raised and was told the 
matter would be investigated.
Virgin Money has accepted it didnt respond  to Mrs Ms complaint and its offered £125  
compensation for the delay. And it says that although Mrs M believed she could keep the 
promotional rate that wasnt the case.  Shed  agreed to the terms of the offer and they were  
repeated on the monthly statements. 
Mrs M accepted the terms of the promotional offer when she transferred her balance to the 
Virgin Money account. But I can understand why Mrs M was sure Virgin Money  had 
confirmed she could  keep  her balance at the promotional rate if she opted out of using the 
account. She was relying on the information  given to her during the call in April.  As a result  
she didnt make any other arrangements for her balance until Virgin Money  began  to apply 
interest at the end of the offer period.
Having listened  to the opt-out conversation again I still feel Mrs M received a poor service  
when she called to discuss closing her account.  Although Virgin Moneys representative  
does mention the standard rate and promotional offer coming  to an end, he also confirms 
Mrs Ms belief  that she can keep the current rate on more than one occasion.  
Based on everything  Ive seen my final decision is that Virgin Money  should  pay £75 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused in addition to the £125 offered for the 
delayed response  to Mrs Ms complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money  plc should pay Mrs M £75 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused in addition to the £125  offered  for the delay in responding to her 
complaint.
Ref: DRN64679594Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6467959