K820x#14Complaint
Miss D, who is represented by her son, Mr D, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
refused to let her reject a faulty car.
Background
In September  2017 Miss D acquired a second hand car at a cost of £10.390  funded by a 
conditional sale agreement and a deposit  of £400. It was some  years six old and had done 
64,934 miles. Miss D held warranty cover. The car passed its MOT  on 30 August 2017  with 
no advisories. The logbook shows the last full service was carried  out in August 2016 with a 
recorded mileage  of 51,909.
Mr D said that soon  after acquisition the oil warning light came on and there  was an issue 
with an armrest. The dealer repaired  the armrest, but was unable to find a fault with the oil. 
Mr D says that some five weeks later the oil light came on again and the dealer  advised  him 
to take it to another garage. According  to Moneybarn this garage said it had carried out 
diagnostic tests which showed there  were  two faults  codes  one for the clutch  function limit 
and the other for a function restriction due to pressure drop.  No repairs  were  carried out by 
this garage.
Mr D contacted the warranty company and he was advised to take it to another garage. It 
carried out an interim service in early December and its the records show the car had done  
4,300 miles since the point of sale. It noted  the oil level was excessively low, but no leak was 
found. Mr D was recommended to take the car to a specialist.  
Mr D says he took the car to a specialist, but he was unable  to recall  which  one. He says it 
couldnt find a fault. Neither  Moneybarn, nor the warranty  company hold any information 
about this specialist garage. 
On 26 April 2018 Mr D contacted Moneybarn and it asked for evidence of the current  issues.  
Mr D sent it an email  from the garage which had seen the car in December 2017. 
Moneybarn explained  that it needed  to see what the current  faults were to establish if these 
had been present at the point of sale. Mr D supplied the job card from the third garage dated 
2 December 2017, but Moneybarn concluded  that it couldnt be satisfied that any current  
faults had been present at the point of sale. 
Mr D continued to use the car and by September according the MOT  certificate he had 
driven it for some 17,800  miles. The car passed its MOT with an advisory  for a brake  pad 
and brake  disc. In November the cars engine seized. Mr D had driven it for some 22,350 
miles by this point. 
A specialist  garage  recorded that: Vehicle recover in with engine  non start, confirmed fault, 
no oil in engine. Carried out diagnostic test 1 fault with camshaft position sensor. Carried  out 
cylinder compression test 0 bar all cylinders,  risk of engine damage. Requires further  
investigation cylinder head pistons  to be removed + inspected.  Customer authorised to 
remove cylinder head + pistons.  Removed  & found  piston 2 + 3 + 4 mechanically damaged + 
cylinder bores 2 + 3 + 4 damaged requires new engine
Mr D complained to Moneybarn, but it rejected  this and then arranged and paid for an 
independent inspection. The report goes into some detail but the inspector concluded that 
Ref: DRN64506512there is enough evidence  to suggest  that the vehicle's faults could not have been present at 
the point of sale due to the vehicle's mileage covered since the point of purchase.
Miss D brought  her complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She sought further information from both 
Mr D and Moneybarn as well as third party garages. She also asked the independent 
inspector for clarification  of his report.
He had thought the car had been driven  for considerably  fewer  miles than had been the 
case. He said that he thought the garages  which had looked and worked on the car wouldnt 
have missed the likely symptoms of the lack of oil which had led to the engine seizing. That 
suggested the fault wasnt present at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator explained that under consumer law Moneybarn was entitled  to ask Miss D to 
provide evidence to support the claim the fault was an inherent one. The independent  report 
concluded the fault was unlikely to have been present in September 2017 and she also 
noted the car had done some 35,000  mile since its last full service. In the 14 months the car 
had been driven  by Mr D it had done over 22,000 miles before the seizure.
Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicator and said nobody has listened  to him or his mother 
about the problems they had encountered. He said the car hadnt been inspected  properly 
and he said the inspector  had told him something  different to what had been  written in the 
report. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Ref: DRN64506513I recognise the strength of feeling  Mr D has shown  in the pursuit of his mothers complaint, 
but I dont believe  I can uphold it. I will explain why.
I need to be satisfied that the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of sale in September 
2017. Consumer  law puts the onus  on Miss D. and her son as representative to demonstrate 
that this was the case. I havent seen sufficient evidence that would allow me to agree with 
Mr Ds assertions.
None of the garages which looked at the car could  find a fault. They  noted  the high use of oil 
and one suggested a specialist look at it. I have seen no evidence of what the specialist Mr 
D says he took the car to concluded.  Mr D says it didnt  identify  fault. Mr D was able to use 
the car extensively  and I appreciate he has told us the oil warning light came on several  
times he was able to still drive it.
I have also noted  that there is no evidence of a proper  service having been  carried out for 
some considerable time. The agreement Miss D signed contained  the requirement that she 
keep the car serviced at intervals  as recommended by the manufacturer.  Unless it was 
serviced, and Mr D hasnt notified  us of this, then the terms of the contract have been 
broken. In any event  a lack of servicing  can contribute to subsequent faults.
I appreciate Mr D has expressed his doubt  about the independent  inspection,  but I have no 
reason to doubt his conclusions, He is a suitably qualified  engineer  and is independent of 
both parties. I would need significant evidence to allow  me to reach a different conclusion to 
his. Even  though the engine had been stripped at the time of his inspection  I dont consider 
this undermines his conclusions.
In short,  cars suffer  wear and tear and Miss D was unfortunate that the car suffered from a 
fault which led to the engine seizing.  I cannot  safely conclude that the fault was present at 
the point of sale. For completeness I would add that I am satisfied that Moneybarn  handled 
the various complaints made by Mr D in a professional manner.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 27 June 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6450651