K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about what MBNA Limited  proposes  to do to put things  right following a 
complaint about  the commission it got from a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S applied for a credit card in 2008. At the same time MBNA  sold him a PPI policy.
In 2013 Mr S complained that the policy was mis-sold. MBNA didnt agree  and Mr S 
referred the complaint to us at that time. As its been looked at by us separately,  I havent 
looked at the way the policy was sold in this decision.
But in 2018 MBNA  wrote  to Mr S again. It said it got a high level of commission  and profit  
share from the PPI. As it didnt tell Mr S about  this when  he bought the policy,  this was 
unfair. So it offered  to refund  the commission and profit  share that was more  than 50% of the 
premium together  with interest he paid on this. It also added simple interest to compensate 
Mr S for the time hed been out of pocket. In total, it worked out it needed  to pay Mr S 
£644.09.
Mr S thinks  he should get more.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and thought  that what  MBNA had offered was fair. 
Mr S asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint. And so the complaint has been  
referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As MBNA has agreed to refund the extra commission  and profit share it got, with interest,  
Ive just looked at whether what theyve offered is fair.
When deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of the case,  Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards; 
codes of practice; and (where  appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Conduct Authority has set out detailed guidance  for financial businesses about 
how to work  out compensation where  the commission and profit  share was too high. The 
guidance says firms  should basically refund the commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than half of the cost of the policy, together with any extra interest  that was charged to 
the account because of this. And if Mr S paid more than he should  have,  MBNA  should add 
interest, (the rate is 8%) to compensate him for the time hes been out of pocket. Given the 
reasons Mr S has complained, I think this approach would be fair in his case. So Ive looked  
at what MBNA has done.
MBNA has sent me details of how it worked out its offer.  
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr Ss PPI policy started  when  the account  opened  in October  
2008  and he was charged  for PPI each month  based on his balance each month. MBNA 
Ref: DRN67647892has worked out what the PPI would have been  if it hadnt charged the extra  commission and 
profit share  and has included the difference in its refund. MBNA says the total it charged 
Mr S for PPI was £591.37  and its giving him back £256.23.
MBNA also has to refund  any interest Mr S was charged because  of the extra  commission 
and profit share it got. Its worked this out to be £277.97. And based on what  Ive seen, I 
think thats right.
Finally, MBNA has worked out when the commission  and profit  share meant  Mr S paid more  
to the account  than he should have done. For example, in some months Mr S was only 
making close to the minimum  repayment  to the account, or the amount he paid would have 
repaid the account in full if it hadnt been  for the commission and profit  share. So MBNA  
assumes Mr S would have owed  less  and so would have paid less. When  this happens, 
MBNA refunds the difference in payments and adds  interest  the rate is 8%  to 
compensate him for the time hes been  out of pocket. In total, its worked  out it needs to pay 
£109.90, after tax.
So, altogether, MBNA  has worked  out it needs  to pay Mr S £644.09.
Given the reasons  Mr S has complained,  I think  this approach is fair.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. He thinks the amount MBNA has offered is low. I 
appreciate that Mr S is disappointed by the amount MBNA has offered. But as Ive explained  
above, the total Mr S was ever charged  for PPI is £591.37  and Mr S gets back  over two 
fifths of this, together with the extra interest charged on what he gets back.
In all the circumstances, I think that what MBNA has offered is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my decision is that MBNA  Limited has offered fair compensation for 
not telling  Mr S about the commission and profit share it got. So I dont make  a further 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6764789