K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund disputed transactions made from his 
account.
Background
Mr A has an account with Metro. Online  banking was set up on 1 May 2018.
In May 2018  a new mobile device was registered using Mr As online banking and account 
details. This was then used to set up a new beneficiary using  the mobile app registered on 
Mr As account. The balance of the account  £0.01  was then transferred to that new 
beneficiary who I will refer to as L. At the end of June 2018 £4,000 in cash  was deposited 
into Mr As account and a few hours  later £4,000.01  was transferred to L using  the mobile 
app by faster payment.
Mr A reported the transactions  as unauthorised on 5 July.
Mr A said his mother had deposited the cash in his account to pay for his university  fees. He 
said he was the only person who knew his banking details and he hadnt heard of the 
beneficiary L.
Metro investigated  and decided not to uphold the complaint. It said the same mobile device 
was used for both transactions. Metro  said that someone must have had access  to his 
mobile device (his phone) and know the details for his mobile  phone  log in and the mobile 
app login. Metro  decided it wouldnt refund the transactions.
Mr A didnt agree with Metros decision, so he referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought that either Mr A had made  the 
transactions himself  or had authorised someone  to do them.  Because the transactions  were 
made by someone  who had access to his phone and knew his online banking  log in details.  
Even though  these  were stored on Mr As phone, Mr A had said no one had access to these  
or his phone. 
Mr A was unhappy with the investigators  view because he said he had never received the 
text messages Metro  said it sent to his phone  to set up internet  banking  and the beneficiary 
L. He never owned a Samsung  handset and he doesnt know  who L was.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Metro can hold Mr A liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence suggests  
its more likely than not, he made  or authorised them himself.
Ref: DRN67100982I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr As genuine security details were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own enough to enable Metro  to hold Mr A liable.  So, I also need to think  about 
whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr A consented to the transfers 
being made. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Metro to conclude  Mr A authorised  
the transactions. I say this because
Mr A has said no one else knew his PIN or had access to his phone  and phone  PIN. 
So, although  the security details were  stored  on his phone  its unlikely a fraudster 
could have had access to the details  and his phone without Mr A knowing about it.
Metro have said once  the mobile app is downloaded the customer would  need  to 
type in their customer number or username.  It will then ask the customer to type in 
three digits from their online banking password and three digits  from their online 
banking security number.  Once  this has been  completed a one-time passcode (OTP) 
is sent to the mobile number registered  on their system for the customers  profile. 
Following the OTP being correctly  entered, the customer can then choose  whether 
they want to register  a fingerprint on the app and or they can choose to register  a 
four-digit PIN. This number would be required to be entered on each subsequent log 
in to the app. Its unlikely a fraudster would know that PIN unless Mr A had told them.
A new mobile device  was registered for the Metro mobile app using Mr As details  
before the fraudulent transactions happened. A one-time passcode  (OTP)  wouldve  
been sent to Mr As mobile phone and would need  to be entered into the mobile app 
in order to successfully register a new device. I cant see how a fraudster could 
guess this code  or have access to the OTP or how this could happen without  Mr As 
knowledge.
Mr A hasnt  been able to provide  a plausible explanation for the point of compromise 
for his PIN
Although Mr A says he never received the text messages from Metro  with the one-
time passcodes I am satisfied from the evidence that these  texts  were sent to Mr As 
mobile number which  is the number he still uses.
No one else knew that £4,000 was being  deposited into Mr As account  other  than 
himself and his parents.
A fraudster would have had to take and replace  Mr As phone twice without him 
noticing over a period of 10 days in order to carry out the transactions, this seems 
implausible. 
Mr A says he didnt query  the one penny transfer because he thought  it was for his 
gym. I find it unlikely that Mr A thought this was his gym membership fee as it was to 
a different beneficiary L and for a different amount. Mr A also said that as it was a 
small amount he wasnt concerned about the payment.
I have listened  to a call Mr A had with Metro. In it Mr A was unclear which payments 
he was disputing. He confirmed the payment on 1 June for £10.50 to a beneficiary I 
will call Z was not genuine. Then  he said it was genuine  and then when Metro  
Ref: DRN67100983suggested that the payment to Z and the payment to L were made using the same 
App ID Mr A said he wanted to dispute  the payment to Z. In the end Mr A didnt 
dispute the payment to Z. Although it is possible that Mr A was confused,  I think it 
reflects on the credibility of his story.
Mr A has said he never had a Samsung  phone. Even if I accept this everything else 
points to Mr A carrying out the transactions or authorising someone  else to do so on 
his behalf.
Taking everything into account  I find on balance that Mr A authorised  the disputed 
transactions. It follows that Metro are entitled  to hold him liable for them and I wont  be 
asking Metro to refund  Mr A.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6710098