K821x#15complaint
Miss W says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about six loans Sunny provided  to Miss W between June and November 
2016. A summary  of Miss Ws borrowing history is as follows:
 
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
Amount
1 02/06/2016 20/07/2016 6 £350.00 £107.31
2 13/07/2016 20/09/2016 6 £50.00 £123.99
3 16/09/2016 20/01/2017 6 £200.00 £83.37
4 01/10/2016 20/12/2016 6 £350.00 £174.79
5 15/10/2016 20/04/2017 6 £400.00 £308.19
6 09/11/2016 20/02/2017 6 £100.00 £337.18
Miss W says she was mis-sold high interest  loans without sufficient affordability checks  to 
assess that she could  reasonably afford the repayments. She told us that the initial loan 
amount applied for was increased  on subsequent months without reassessing her income 
and outgoings  and the initial loan term was extended further without reassessment  of her 
income and outgoings. She said the resulting loan repayments were such a burden that she 
struggled to meet normal household commitments such as utility bills, rent and food. The 
effect of this led her to seek further payday loans from other lenders in order to repay these 
loans creating a debt spiral which dramatically impacted her income.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had treated Miss W fairly when it provided the first five 
instalment loans. But she said that she didnt  think the sixth loan should have been  provided. 
She said that at that time Miss W had become persistently reliant  on short  term loans. In her 
view she said that the pattern  of lending itself showed that the loan was unsustainable.
Sunny disagreed with this view. It said it didnt  think wed taken Miss Ws circumstances  into 
account when  looking at this matter. It also said it was inaccurate to say that Miss Ws 
overall pattern  of borrowing  suggested she had become  persistently  reliant  on short  term 
loans. The checks it did showed  the loans were  suitable when taking into account  Miss Ws 
income. As the parties are not in agreement  the complaint was passed  to me.
To be clear as there  is no disagreement  about  loans 1-5, I will not be looking at these  loans 
in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN66937912Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint. Ive decided that loan 6 shouldnt 
have been provided to Miss W. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ws case, I think  that this point was reached  by 
loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss W was not managing to repay their 
loans sustainably. Miss W had taken out six loans within as many months and she 
had been indebted  to Sunny for all that time. So Sunny ought to have realised it was 
Ref: DRN66937913more likely than not Miss W was having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying 
her previous  loan was leaving  in her finances  and that Miss Ws indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Miss Ws first loan was for £350.00  and loan 6 was for £100. Sunny  might  say that 
over the time they had provided Miss W with her loans, loan 6 was for a reduced  
amount from her previous loans. But looking at Miss Ws pattern of lending  history by 
the time Miss W had taken loan 6 she still had the previous  loans 3, 4 and 5 
outstanding which  were for much larger sums. So, it doesnt seem likely  that Miss 
Ws need for cash was reducing which also points to her having a longer  term need 
for funds.  So, at this point Sunny  ought  to have known that Miss W was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
And related  to the above, but perhaps more importantly, the total monthly repayment 
Miss W was due to repay  had risen sharply  over loans 4, 5 and 6. I think this is an 
indication that this lending was becoming  problematic. And at loan 6 I dont think it 
was reasonable  for Sunny to say that Miss W was likely to be able to sustainably  
repay this loan.  
Miss W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan  6 was 
taken out within  6 months of taking out her first loan. And as she was still repaying 
the outstanding amounts on her previous three loans, Miss W had paid large  
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Sunny  over an extended period.
I think that Miss W lost out because  Sunny continued to provide borrowing  when  it gave Miss 
W loan 6 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans which Miss W borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 6 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken means  any information recorded  about Miss W is adverse. 
So all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Miss Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN66937914For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ws complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6693791