K822xComplaint
Mr Y is unhappy that a cheque wasnt processed by Santander UK Plc on time due to a 
review on his account. He says this caused him financial losses.
Background 
Mr Y wrote a cheque for his Solicitors in late January 2019. The cheque was stopped  by 
Santander because  they decided to carry out a review on Mr Ys account.  Mr Y provided 
Santander with the information they asked for regarding the incoming money to Mr Ys 
account. Mr Ys account was unblocked,  and the cheque  was debited.
A couple of days later,  Mr Y heard  from his Solicitors  because they hadnt received the 
money. Mr Y was due to complete on a property and therefore the Solicitors needed the 
money by the completion date, which was set for 1 February 2019.  Santander  confirmed the 
money had left Mr Ys account so Mr Y would need  to check  with his Solicitors bank  to see 
where the money was.
On 1 February 2019, Mr Y asked Santander to cancel the cheque  because it still hadnt 
reached the Solicitors account. Santander  explained they would need to raise a manual 
request.
On 6 February 2019, the cheque represented  for payment and then returned unpaid due to 
Mr Ys request to cancel  it. The cheque was cancelled and recredited to Mr Ys account on 
12 February 2019, and he was able to transfer money to the Solicitors.
In the meantime, the completion date had passed and therefore Mr Y says he had to borrow  
money from friends and family to be able to complete on his property.  Mr Y confirmed he 
had to pay his friends  and family  back more than he borrowed so hes at a financial loss. 
And he received  further charges from the Solicitors. Mr Y wants Santander  to reimburse him.
Santander offered  Mr Y £150 compensation because of delays which  could have been 
avoided. Mr Y wasnt happy with this and brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator said Santanders offer of £150  compensation was appropriate.  She found 
Santander were entitled  to review Mr Ys account, but she thought they caused delays after 
the cheque represented on 6 February  2019. And she didnt ask Santander to reimburse 
Mr Y for the extra costs  hed incurred because she didnt think the evidence  was enough to 
show the losses.
Mr Y remained unhappy,  so the complaint  has been  passed to me to review.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will disappoint Mr Y, so Ive explained  
my reasons  below.
Ive considered Santanders actions  when reviewing and subsequently suspending  Mr Ys 
account. And, based on what Ive seen, like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line 
with their obligations. Santander,  like all UK banks,  are strictly regulated  and must take 
Ref: DRN68024432certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what  Ive 
seen, Im satisfied Santander  were  acting in line with these obligations when  reviewing 
Mr Ys account. 
Mr Y was able to provide Santander  with the information they needed to carry out their 
review. And Im pleased  to see Santander acted on this efficiently as the account was 
blocked for a short  period of time. So, I dont think there were any unnecessary delays 
caused by Santander.
Santander have  provided evidence to show the cheque debited  Mr Ys account on 
29 January 2019.  This would have been enough time for Mr Ys Solicitors  to receive the 
money before his completion date. However, the money didnt reach Mr Ys Solicitors  
account. I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for this, because based on the evidence, 
Im satisfied the cheque  was debited on 29 January 2019. I recognise this caused Mr Y 
some problems with his property purchase, but thats not Santanders  fault as they debited  
the money for the cheque  as Mr Y had requested.
On 1 February 2019, Mr Y asked Santander to cancel the cheque  so he could make  a 
transfer to his Solicitors instead.  As the cheque had already  been debited,  Santander 
couldnt cancel  it straight  away.  But they raised  a manual request. On 6 February  2019,  I can 
see that the cheque was represented for payment.  But I dont think  it should have been. I 
say that because Mr Y asked for the cheque to be cancelled on 1 February  2019.  Therefore, 
Santander should have ensured the cheque didnt  represent on 6 February 2019, which 
would have allowed  Mr Y to have his money back sooner. So, I consider Santander caused 
a delay to Mr Y of around 6 days as he received the money on 12 February 2019.
I appreciate Mr Y has provided some contracts to show he borrowed money  from friends and 
family to allow him to continue with his house purchase. These  contracts show  that Mr Y 
borrowed one amount and agreed to pay back double the amount. Im aware  Mr Y thinks  
Santander should reimburse him for this money. But I cant  fairly agree.  I say that because,  
Mr Y has explained his completion  date was 1 February 2019. But Ive found that Santander 
acted reasonably and in line with their legal and regulatory obligations when reviewing and 
blocking Mr Ys accounts. And Ive found  that Santander debited the cheque from Mr Ys 
account before 1 February 2019.  Mr Ys solicitors didnt receive  the money because of an 
external factor not associated  to Santander. So, I cant fairly ask Santander to reimburse  
unfair interest charges which Mr Y has agreed  to, because I dont think they did anything 
wrong. While  I have  found Santander caused delays after 6 February 2019, this was after 
the completion date so I dont think it would have made any difference  if these delays didnt 
occur. And thats because Mr Y had already entered into the borrowing contracts with his 
friends and family before this date.
Overall, taking everything into account, I think Santanders offer of £150  compensation is 
appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. I think that fairly recognises the delays 
Santander caused and therefore the inconvenience to Mr Y. I dont consider it fair to ask 
Santander to reimburse  Mr Y for the extra charges hes faced from the money he borrowed 
because I dont find they made an error  before the property  completion date. So I wont  be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I think Santander UK Plcs  offer to 
resolve Mr Ys complaint is fair. 
Ref: DRN68024433So, Santander UK Plc should pay Mr Y £150  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6802443