K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Friends Life Limited failed to provide them with any statements 
about two of their three with-profits policies (after 2014), failed to explain why these  policies 
have not performed better and failed  to respond promptly or satisfactorily to their repeated  
requests for information. They also complain that while Friends claimed the lower values 
were due to the income theyd taken theyd  not received any income despite requesting this. 
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 22 January 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
In that decision  I explained that I was satisfied that the latest document Friends  had provided 
appeared to be an accurate record of income payments but I understood why Mr and Mrs N 
still felt unconvinced either by this note and also felt their other concerns had still not been  
addressed. 
Given this, I asked Friends  to provide a fuller record in the hope that this would reassure Mr 
and Mrs N that the correct  income payments were made, something I felt was essential give 
the very poor service they had received from Friends over some years.
Friends subsequently provided the same pages with several  other statements and said it 
was satisfied this demonstrated what income  had been paid out and when. Given this, it did 
not agree  with my proposal to pay Mr and Mrs N £1,000 in compensation for the various 
alleged failures  which I had outlined. 
Mr N responded to my provisional decision,  and said:
He was adamant that these figures  bore no relation to the income distribution figures 
from his other similar policies,  in terms of the amounts or regularity of payment
Friends had still not explained why it had not sent him regular statements showing 
these income payments,  particularly  given he received this vital paper trail on his 
other policies. Further,  he had definitely not received these sums
While  the documentation sent recently  appeared to show that it made periodic 
natural income  payments, it did not specify which bank these payments were paid 
into. The payment  dates did also not appear to follow a set pattern such  as quarterly, 
six monthly or yearly
Friends recent response side-stepped some of the key issues theyd been 
complaining about  for years]
For example, it says that Servicing hasnt  been able to find any copy  of the 2016 
statement but the reality is that Friends had never sent them any statements since  
the policy started in 2014
This is an issue they have chase  unsuccessfully for nearly five years
Recent examples of alleged  statements must have been conceived  in August 2018 
after they made an official complaint
As recently as June  2018 Friends denied having  the statements it has now produced 
i.e. it is only the ombudsmans intervention which has resulted in these alleged 
statements being produced
The so-called income payment  statements  are equally  dubious. They never  received 
any documentation about these alleged payments  and it this is a record of income 
payments it wold not include  the final surrender payment
Ref: DRN68683662At no point has Friends explained  - or apologised for  its failure to make the 
payments he requested from the outset
There has been no explanation as to why the policy  has lost so much money, 
especially in view of the initial  uplift
Friends has not explained why it can suddenly produce information it has been 
apparently unable to do for the past two years
It has still not produced evidence to show that income payments were reinvested in 
the early years
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the long history of Friends  failure to provide the key information, I am not surprised 
that Mr and Mrs N do not accept this latest documentation as sufficient proof  that the 
payments were made.  It is a shame that it is not clearly labelled  as an income payment 
document and states the bank account into which the money  was paid. Direct Credit may 
be an accurate technical  term for the payments but it is not a clear  and transparent 
explanation of what happened  to these sums.
Nevertheless, for the reasons  outlined in my provisional decision, I am satisfied   on the 
balance of probabilities  that these are an actual record of payments made via this policy; 
that no money has gone missing.
I feel that I dealt with most of Mr and Mrs Ns recent  comments in my provisional decision 
where I explained why I agreed with many but not all of their points.
That said,  I am surprised  that Friends log does not include a full account  of the 
conversations in 2014. But this means I cannot be sure as to whether Mr and Mrs N did want  
ongoing regular  withdrawals or not. After repeated requests to provide the full statements 
showing payments  and/or  reinvestment  of income/dividends, Friends  was only able to 
provide statements for one policy. It then took further repeated requests to get the second 
one. This also was for the wrong  policy. Finally, after a further lengthy delay it appears finally 
to have explained what happened to the income/dividends and offered some evidence  that it 
has paid out all that was due.
Given this, and the other well-documented issues, I uphold this complaint  and instruct  
Friends Life limited to pay £1,000  in lieu of its numerous failings. This is in addition to the 
£250 paid before the complaint was referred to this service and the £100 it recently paid for 
its failure to deal with the complaint promptly. As I explained in my provisional decision, this 
award is not simply based on the length and repetitiveness  of Friends  errors but the evident  
impact this has had on Mr and Mrs N given their age, their understandable concern about 
whats happened to their money, and the distress  theyve faced over a long period of time as 
a result of Friends failure to provide  documentation or satisfactorily explain whats 
happened.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Friends Life limited to pay £1,000  in lieu of its numerous  
failings and particular  impact this has  had on Mr and Mrs N. This is in addition to the £250  
Ref: DRN68683663paid before the complaint  was referred to this service and the £100 it recently paid for its 
failure to deal with the complaint promptly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68683664provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Friends Life Limited failed  to provide them with any statements about two of 
their three  with-profits policies (after  2014),  failed to explain why these policies have not performed 
better and failed to respond promptly or satisfactorily to their requests for information.  They also 
complain that while Friends claimed the lower values were due to the income theyd taken theyd  not 
received any income despite requesting this. 
background
Friends said some statements were generated for both policies although  it did not have any copies 
but admitted that it didnt  have any evidence to indicate all the statements had been produced, partly 
due to computer error. It offered £250  compensation for these errors.
It also said:
Some of Mr and Mrs Ns chosen funds generated natural income which could be paid without 
cashing-in any accumulation units or used to buy extra accumulation units
In their original application Mr and Mrs N asked to cash in the natural income  and this was 
paid for several years
In their top-up application, Mr and Mrs N asked to take regular withdrawals by cashing  in 
accumulation units.  This was different  from the existing income payments,  which they asked it 
to mirror, so it needed clarification about this
It spoke  to Mr N on 23 January 2014 to check what he wanted to do. Its notes say he asked 
for income payments  rather  than withdrawals. It followed  these instructions  and paid natural 
income, mirroring what itd been doing on the other policy
It cant find a recording of the phone call to check if it did the right thing. But a letter received 
on 25 July 2014 suggests  it did. It does not have a copy of its reply to this letter  so cant  check  
how clearly it answered the other  points raised
It also offered a further £100 purely  for the delay in not responding earlier.
An adjudicator at this service considered  Friends overall offer of £350 fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs Ns representative did not agree, and said:
They  did not receive any statements or policy documents from Friends in relation to the top-
up policy  taken out in 2014. Mr N spent three years chasing for this information as well as 
pursuing the issue of the income  which was due
Friends statement  that income  was paid until August 2017 is totally untrue  and there is no 
evidence to support  this. It is claiming to have made financial transfers which  did not occur. 
Mr N regularly checks his bank statements and confirms that no payments have been 
received via this policy
Mr and Mrs N were  forced  into the encashment  due to Friends repeated failure to respond 
and provide key documentation etc. and they should be fully compensated for the £1,000 
early surrender fee
Ref: DRN68683665After this case was referred to me I sought  further information from Friends Life as I did not believe it 
had sent the crucial  documentation  showing  whether income payments  had been made  on one of the 
policies or, alternatively these had been  reinvested.
Friends repeatedly  failed to send this information, despite numerous  reminders, or sent the wrong  
information. Finally, after more than three months of constant requests it sent what it said was the 
following information:
Confirmation  of what was invested and allocated  in 2014  - please  see "N investment 
allocation" document  attached
Statements each year since inception  -Attached  as "N 1 February  2015 statement.pdf"  and 
"N.18 August 2017 statement.pdf"  - unfortunately servicing havent been able to find any 
record of the 2016 statement
Income payment are confirmed in "N payment confirmation" this also includes  the final 
surrender payment
Confirmation  of the commission sacrifice uplift and any additional  allocation rate (split down 
as 2 if relevant) - the IFA gave up £1,340.00 commission,  which enhanced the investment by 
the same amount, totalling £21,340
The amount used to purchase units is 101% of this, which is £21,553.40 - please  see 
attached "Investment allocation"  confirming  both figures.
Mr and Mrs N and their representative did not accept  this as sufficient  proof that payments had been 
either made or reinvested, and said:
The list of payments does not represent either a payment out or a dividend in on this policy at 
all - its ad hoc payments including the encashment
Mr N has had Aviva  (ex Axa and Friends Life policies) for many years and for all of these he 
either received a dividend reinvestment  statement  or received income  to his bank.  For this 
particular policy in question  he received  neither
Mr N did not receive a response to his letter of 26 June 2017 or many of the other documents  
he requested; nor did Friends send any statements about  the policy  question  from January  
2014 onwards
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
communication and documentation
Ill firstly deal with Friends alleged failure  to respond to requests for information  and documentation 
and what statements  were most likely provided from 2014 on.
In my view it is clear  from reading the full file that Friends made numerous  errors and did not 
communicate fully with Mr and Mrs N. While there is no definitive evidence  that Mr and Mrs N made  
repeated requests which went unanswered  I am satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that this 
occurred taking  into account  its overall actions to date. 
Crucially, I note that Mr and Mrs Ns representative wrote to Friends on 6 July 2016 saying, No 
paperwork of any kind is received on an annual  basis and this has been raised  with you many, many 
times both by us and the client. I think it is unlikely  that the representative  would  have stated this with 
Ref: DRN68683666such force and certainty if there had simply been one or at most  two unanswered letters  (let alone 
none). 
Despite this Friends said it is unable to find any contact  between it and Mr and Mrs N or their 
representative during  the period in dispute. It has also not provided any proof that it sent documents  
after February 2015 - when  a statement for one of the two policies was at least produced if not 
received. I note that it says it was not required  to issue a policy document  for what  was a top-up 
policy. That is within its business  prerogative  but does not alter my view about  its overall  failures. 
I am therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs Ns complaint about the repeated failure  to provide key 
documentation or respond  to their queries should be upheld. Friends has recognised aspects  of its 
failings and paid £250 in recognition of this, adding  a further £100 in lieu of not responding to the 
complaint promptly.
My role is to assess not merely the extent  of a business failings including how long such  failings took 
but, crucially, what impact  they had on the individual customers. In this case I think the impact has 
been very considerable  and resulted in Mr and Mrs N surrendering these policies - having  lost faith in 
Friends to deal with them professionally or promptly. Given these policies were  worth around £45,000, 
Ive no doubt Mr and Mrs N were extremely  anxious about the lack of information and Friends failure  
to respond.
This service has also had considerable difficulty in obtaining the documents which might  demonstrate 
that Friends either paid out the correct income or reinvested this  on both policies. Overall,  I can 
barely recall a single case where the business in question has proved  so difficult  to deal with. In my 
view, it symbolised its all-round failure to provide a fair and reasonable service to Mr and Mrs N.
Given all the above, I believe Friends should pay Mr and Mrs N £1,000, in addition to the £250 and 
£100 already paid.  This is to reflect both the considerable general trouble  and upset  it has caused and 
to partly reimburse them for the surrender penalty. In my view this fairly reflects  the impact of Friends  
failures on Mr and Mrs N.
investment performance  
I recognise Mr and Mrs N have been very surprised  and disappointed by the surrender value of their 
plans but it is not my role to question a business investment strategy  or a products  performance  
unless there  is clear  evidence of wrongdoing.  I have seen nothing  to suggest this. 
While Mr N refers  to similar plans doing better over the same time this, in itself, does not indicate  
Friends had done something wrong. One only has to look at the business  sections of the Sunday 
papers to see wide disparities in the performance of every type of investment including individual 
products significantly outperforming and underperforming against  the overall  trends.
Looking at the statements, belatedly provided by Friends, there is no evidence to suggest it deducted 
amounts to cover withdrawals which it did not then pay. For example, the 2017 statement states there 
have been no withdrawals from the policy ending 85. The reduced surrender value is heavily 
affected by the significant  early withdrawal penalty.
For the policy  ending 58 the surrender  value  shows a very modest increase from the previous 
quoted value,  itself slightly higher than the 2016 figure. So I do not accept  there is evidence  to 
indicate unaccounted for or dubious falls in the plans values or deductions to cover regular 
withdrawals (which were never  paid).
payment of income/withdrawals 
As Ive said earlier I am not persuaded that Friends sent Mr and Mrs N the necessary confirmation of 
what income/withdrawals it was paying from 2014. So I fully understand the reasons  why they have 
Ref: DRN68683667complained about this, and that they remain  unconvinced  that Friends has paid out anything/the 
correct amounts. 
That said, Friends sought clarification of Mr and Mrs Ns withdrawal requirements  when they took out 
the 2014  top-up policy and the documentation sent recently  appears to show that it made  periodic 
natural income payments.  That said, this one page document does not give the amounts  in question  
or the dates on which these income payments were made.
Given this I am not surprised that Mr and Mrs N do not accept this document  is sufficient  proof given 
Friends repeated  failures in the past. Personally, I think it is more like than not to be an accurate 
record of the relevant income  payments but Friends must, in response to this provisional decision,  
provide a fuller record  showing the amounts and dates in question  both to try and persuade Mr and 
Mrs N and to assure me that these were paid and correctly.
I am surprised  Friends  log does not include a full account of the conversations in 2014 but this means  
I am unable  to be sure whether Mr and Mrs N did want ongoing regular  withdrawals or not. After 
repeated requests to provide the full statements showing payments and/or reinvestment of 
income/dividends, Friends was only able to provide statements for one policy. It then took further 
repeated requests to get the second one. This also was for the wrong  policy. Finally, after a further 
lengthy delay it appears finally to have fully explained what  happened to the income/dividends and 
show that it has paid out all that was due.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Friends  Life limited to pay £1,000 in lieu of its 
numerous failings.  This is in addition to the £250 paid before the complaint was referred  to this 
service and the £100 it recently paid for its failure to deal with the complaint promptly.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6868366