K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her two PPI policies in 2009 
and 2010, with her mortgage. 
background
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
For the 2009 sale Mrs F took out PPI elements only. In 2010, Mrs F took PPI plus CIC 
element of the policy. Mrs F has only complained  about the PPI elements of the cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. As Mrs F disagreed  with this, 
the case has now been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Did Mrs F agree to the PPI?
Halifax had to make Mrs F aware the PPI was optional. 
These events were obviously a few years ago now. We dont have much  documentary 
evidence to refer to because Halifax no longer has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  how long ago the sale was.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward by Mrs F. The key one is 
that she was told it was essential to take the PPI to have the mortgage approved in 2009. 
Whilst I accept  this may well be her genuine belief now,  weve  seen quite a few similar  
sales to this from that time period. And as a result, weve looked in detail at what  Halifaxs  
sales processes were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mrs F, had accepted the recommendation to have certain, or all, elements of the TMPP 
policy. Halifax has provided a copy of the letters it sent to Mrs F for both the 2009 and 2010 
policies. These set out what Mrs F had opted for, so I think  had she not agreed to take 
these policies she would have raised this sooner  with Halifax. 
We were also sent some  screenshots of Halifaxs internal computer system. Ive seen  
quite a few of these  before and I also know from experience  that they show, as in this case,  
that Mrs F was asked several questions relating to the cover shed agreed to buy. Because  
I think what was keyed  into the Halifax computer system, would have been done at the time 
Ref: DRN66070602of the mortgage  interview  I think its most likely  all aspects of the TMPP were  probably 
discussed in some detail.  
Finally, I can see that in 2009,  Mrs F only opted to take the PPI element of the cover. And in 
2010, she amended her cover to include the CIC element. This further leads me to think  
she discussed different  forms of protection with Halifax  and took the level of cover most 
suitable for her circumstances.
So overall, I think its more likely  Mrs F agreed to the PPI at the time of the mortgage 
interview and sale in 2009 and then in 2010 agreed  to that policy. 
Mrs F has said she felt pressured to take out the PPI. I dont doubt  that these are her 
recollections. But I also have to consider that the sale took place over 10 years ago. And 
the adviser may have told Mrs F it was a good  idea to take out the PPI. But this isnt the 
same as pressure. And Mrs F hasnt expanded  on what made  her feel pressured.  So on 
balance, Im not persuaded that Mrs F felt she had no option  but to agree to the policy.  
Was Mrs F given suitable recommendations?
Halifax accepts it recommended the PPI to Mrs F on both occasions.  So it had to make  
sure each policy was suitable  for her.
Looking at Mrs Fs circumstances, it seems to have  been suitable for her. Mrs F says she 
was suffering from a medical condition at the time of the 2010  sale and has provided a copy  
of her medical notes  to show this. Ive thought carefully about what  Mrs F has said and the 
evidence she has provided.  Having done this, it looks like her condition  wasnt identified  until 
a couple of months after the sale. From the evidence the business has provided, at the time 
of sale, Mrs F had told it she wasnt currently seeing  her GP or a specialist  for anything.    
Mrs Fs medical  notes also seem to confirm this. 
So Im satisfied Mrs Fs condition wouldnt have been affected  by the exclusions in relation to 
pre-existing medical conditions. And she wasnt affected by any of the other exclusions or 
limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs F says she would have received sick pay and redundancy benefits from her employer. 
But the policy wouldve  paid out alongside  her employee benefits. And although Mrs F says 
she had a generous amount of savings  she couldve  used, having the policy would have  
meant those savings could have been  used to cover  other essential costs or used for their 
intended purpose if she was unable to work  or found  herself unemployed. So it seems she 
had a need for the policy. 
Ive not seen anything to make me think the costs of the policy were unaffordable and Mrs F 
was borrowing funds  against a large  and long term financial  commitment,  which was 
secured on her home.  So I think having the security that her mortgage repayments  would  be 
made if she was unable to work would have been  important  to her.
Was she given enough information?
During the sale Halifax shouldve provided information which was clear.  I cant  say Mrs F 
was told or given all the information she should have been but I think she would have been 
easily able to see how much the PPI cost and what was covered. I think  she would have also 
been given a copy of the policy  rules.
Ref: DRN66070603Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mrs F tailored the 
PPI cover to suit her needs at the time.  I think she probably agreed to the elements of the 
cover because it was something  she thought would be useful to have. 
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mrs F some of the commission  she 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Fs mortgage  was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs F paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
I know Mrs F feels strongly and will be disappointed  by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised, but for 
the reasons explained above these points  dont change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6607060