K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the way (the company now known as) Fairmead Insurance Limited 
handled his home  insurance claim for water damage.
background
Mr O contacted Fairmead on 6 August 2018 to report that he had noticed a leak in his 
property two days before.  Fairmead told him he needed to get this fixed  and directed him 
towards the home emergency cover he had on his policy.  As this cover was a policy add-on,  
it was provided by a different insurer. The home emergency insurer arranged for a plumber 
to attend the following day. He told Mr O he needed to get the leak repaired.  
On 4 September 2018, Mr O contacted Fairmead  to report that the leak was still ongoing  and 
that he hadnt had anyone  else out to the property to repair it. Fairmead told Mr O that he 
needed to get the leak fixed  as soon as possible.  Mr O said he thought the home  emergency  
provider was going to send someone but now the damage had got worse and the kitchen 
ceiling looked  weak. Fairmead told Mr O there was no trace and access  cover under the 
policy so he would have  to arrange to find and fix the leak himself. Fairmead also told Mr O it 
would arrange  for a surveyor to visit the property  and validate the claim.
When the surveyor attended about a week later, he noted that despite the leak going  on for 
over a month, Mr O still hadnt  appointed anyone to investigate  and stop it. He told Mr O that 
Fairmead wouldnt be able to confirm cover  until the leak was stopped. He asked Mr O to 
arrange for this to happen and to send him a report about what  had caused the leak.  On 4 
October 2018 Mr O let the surveyor know hed had the leak stopped  and he sent in a report 
from the contractor who had carried out the work. 
The report  said the contractor had removed the bath,  cleaned the bottom  of it and the pipes 
under the bath, checked all the connections  and tightened them to avoid any leaks, replaced 
the broken tiles on the bathroom  wall and put silicone sealant  around the edge of the bath 
and the tiles. It also said thered been  water  dripping from under the bathroom sink from 
weak rubber which he changed and tightened. 
Having reviewed the contractors report, the surveyor  called Mr O to say that Fairmead was 
declining the claim because the damage  was the result of failed sealant/grout which was 
excluded from cover under the policy. He said the report failed to confirm  that thered been a 
leak other than to a seal in the bathroom  sink. Mr O said that he thought the damage should 
be covered no matter how it got into his kitchen below and that he had a report  saying the 
leak was coming from the bath. 
Mr O sent a second report from his contractor  which  said:  Sorry my dad did the job. Water 
leak from the pipe under the bath not the tiles.  He said the leak wasnt  from failed sealant 
or grout but from a pipe under the bath. 
Fairmead reconsidered the claim following  receipt of the second report and said it was 
prepared to cash settle for the damage its surveyor had observed to the kitchen ceiling 
(£478.30 less the policy excess of £250). At the start of November 2018 Mr O said he was 
going to contact his local authority to see if it would  fix the damage and about a week  later 
he said he was getting his own estimates; the first of these was for £6,800. 
Ref: DRN68831442Fairmead reviewed the estimate and noted it included  works not related  to the claim. It said 
the limit of its liability was the cash offer itd made Mr O. Mr O asked Fairmead to send him a 
copy of its scope of works which it did at the start of December 2018. 
Mr O complained to Fairmead  about  the claims settlement  hed been offered.  Fairmead  
investigated his complaint  and issued its final response letter  at the end of January 2019. It 
said it thought  the cash  settlement itd offered Mr O was correct but that the level of service  
hed received at times had fallen short of the high standards  it aimed for. Specifically, it said 
there was a short delay whilst his contractors invoice was reviewed. So, it said it was paying 
Mr O compensation of £100. 
Fairmead said that it was a condition of the policy that the property was kept in a good state 
of repair  and that all steps to safeguard it against  loss or damage must  be taken. It said itd 
advised him on several occasions that the leak needed to be located and stopped  so it 
wasnt responsible  for damage that occurred  after it wouldve been reasonable for him to 
have arranged for that to happen.  
Mr O disagreed with Fairmeads  conclusions.  He said hed taken  reasonable steps to 
safeguard his house by contacting Fairmead to report the damage in the first place. He said 
Fairmead was responsible for the home  emergency  insurer and that itd been slow in 
sending out a plumber. He said he hadnt called a plumber of his own because the policy  
terms precluded it. And the home emergency insurer  hadnt sent anyone else out. So, he 
said it wasnt until early September 2018  that hed contacted Fairmead. He said Fairmeads 
surveyor hadnt been in the house  long enough to assess the damage.  And he said he was 
now suffering from all the delays and incompetence  all of which  was Fairmeads  fault. 
At the start of March  2019, Fairmead looked again  at Mr Os complaint. It said a complaint 
about any failings  by the home emergency insurer would need to be raised with it. Fairmead 
said the role of the home emergency  cover is to stop the immediate cause of the damage 
and often this only amounted  to a temporary  fix. It said that cover wasnt  there  to carry out 
permanent repairs; that was the responsibility of the home owner. And it said Mr O had 
waited 4 weeks after the home  emergency plumber came out before pursuing the matter. It 
said his buildings  and contents policy was there to cover damage caused by the water  leak 
not to repair  the cause  of that leak. Fairmead  said it stood by its surveyors  assessment of 
the damage. It said that the reports provided by Mr O were insufficient to show its surveyors 
assessment was wrong. 
Fairmead said that, given  the damage to Mr Os home  had been  allowed to get worse since  
its surveyors visit, it wouldnt be responsible for any thatd occurred after hed failed  to 
progress the incident hed initially reported.  It said that whilst it was aware the leak had 
occurred in August  2018, it had given him the benefit of the doubt and agreed to base its 
settlement on the damage as assessed by its surveyor in September  2018 but not any 
damage caused beyond that point. Fairmead said the onus was on Mr O to show that the 
damage as assessed  in September  2018 was significantly  greater than that reported by its 
surveyor for it to consider  paying any more. 
Mr O instructed a surveyor of his own to report on the damage and he sent the report  to 
Fairmead in April 2019. He also provided  two more quotes for repairs and receipts for the 
report itself (totalling £449.30). Fairmead  reviewed  the report but it didnt change its mind  
about the settlement itd offered. It said Mr Os report didnt show that the damage identified  
in it was a result of the initial leak Mr O had reported  in August 2018. So, it said it was 
maintaining its position  as set out in its final response letter in January 2019.  
Ref: DRN68831443Unhappy with Fairmeads response, Mr O complained to this service. He said Fairmead was 
contractually responsible  for stopping leaks as soon  as they were  reported. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint  and initially thought  Fairmead had handled the claim fairly  so didnt 
recommend the complaint was upheld.  Mr O disagreed with our investigator.  He said he had 
home emergency cover which made Fairmead  responsible for tracing, accessing and 
stopping the leak and then for repairing any damage. Mr O said Fairmeads  surveyors  report 
was wrong about  the source of the leak, but it refused to abandon his conclusions.  
Our investigator looked at the complaint again and said that Fairmead had failed to stop the 
leak or to find its cause thereby allowing it to continue to cause extensive flooding. So, he 
said it should pay the claim along  with compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset itd 
caused Mr O. Fairmead disagreed with our investigators findings. It said the home  
emergency cover was provided by another insurer and that it was Mr Os duty as 
policyholder to trace and access the cause of the leak. And it said hed allowed the damage 
to worsen by not doing so. Mr O also disagreed with our investigators findings.  He said he 
wanted the cost of his survey reimbursed, the claim paid based on his quote  of £10,758 and 
£2,400 for the trouble  and upset caused  to him and his family.  
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision in July 2020. I thought 
the complaint  shouldnt  reasonably be upheld. I made  the following provisional  findings:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Not all damage a home sustains is covered  by a home insurance policy. Only the damage 
caused by the insured events listed in the policy  fire, theft, storm, escape of water  etc.  is 
covered. Providing  it can be shown that the damage  the policyholder is claiming for has 
been caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy then the insurer must pay the 
claim unless  it can successfully  rely on one of the exclusion clauses listed  in the policy  in 
order to decline it. 
The terms and conditions  of the contract  between Mr O and Fairmead  are primarily set out in 
the policy booklet (this together with the policy schedule, any applicable endorsements  etc 
forms the full contract between the two parties). For the claim to be accepted it must fall 
within the terms of the contract.  The contract  also sets out various conditions that both 
parties must  abide  by in order for the claim to be valid. 
I can see from the policy booklet that loss or damage caused to the home by an escape of 
water is covered. There is no cover anywhere in the policy for tracing and accessing  a leak, 
or for fixing the cause of the leak (for example, there  is no cover  provided for fixing a burst 
pipe or rubber seal)   thats the responsibility  of the policyholder. The reason being that 
home insurance provides cover for damage caused by the one-off insured events listed in 
the policy. It doesnt provide cover for routine property maintenance or items that may need  
repair or replacement  because they have  come to the end of their useful life. All properties 
require maintenance from time to time but that is the responsibility of the home owner to see 
to, not the home insurer. 
Most insurance policies  include  options  to extend  cover  should the policyholder  choose to do 
so  for example to include  cover  for damage caused accidentally,  or cover for legal  
Ref: DRN68831444expenses etc. One other such  policy add-on  cover is home emergency  cover. I can see that 
Mr O opted to include this and paid an increased premium  for doing so. It provides cover  for 
immediate repairs to stabilise and remove an emergency. It says it will send out a repairer to 
assess the situation and carry out first aid work arising from (amongst other things) burst  
pipes or sudden leakage. It specifically excludes the cost of effecting a permanent  repair  
once the emergency situation has been resolved. 
The home emergency cover added on to Mr Os policy  is not provided by Fairmead.  It is 
provided by another insurer  as set out in the policy booklet. Any dissatisfaction Mr O has 
with the service he received when he claimed under  the home emergency section of cover  
must be directed  to the insurer  that provides that cover.  
So, Im unable to agree with Mr O when he says Fairmead was contractually responsible for 
stopping leaks as soon  as they were  reported. I say that firstly because Fairmead is not the 
insurer providing the home emergency  cover; and secondly because  the policy terms make 
no mention that the stopping and repairing any leaks is something  thats  covered. Put simply 
the stopping and repairing of any leak is not in any way Fairmeads responsibility. 
Im not going  to comment further here on the extent of the cover  provided by the home 
emergency section  of the policy, or the service Mr O received when he phoned to report  the 
leak. These are matters for the home emergency insurer to consider first. All I will say is that 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Fairmead to tell Mr O that the extent of the home 
emergency cover was confined to stabilising  and removing  the emergency  and didnt extend  
to effecting a permanent repair. I say this because what Fairmead  told Mr O is reflected in 
the policy terms. 
The policy booklet  contains a condition which makes it the policyholders duty to keep their 
property in good repair and to take all reasonable steps to safeguard it against loss or 
damage. And its a policy requirement  that if damage does occur, the policyholder must take 
all reasonable steps to prevent further loss or damage. So once  the leak occurred it was 
Mr Os responsibility  to see that it was repaired and to do so as soon as possible in order to 
prevent further  loss or damage from occurring. The damage that then flowed from the 
original leak would be something that the policy covered (subject to any exclusion being 
applied) but repairing the cause of the leak itself  be that a broken seal or burst pipe  isnt 
covered. 
So, in these circumstances  I dont think that there was any failing on Fairmeads part to stop 
the leak, identify  its cause or which allowed  extensive flooding and damage  to occur.  
Fairmead was only liable to repair the damage  the leak originally caused (unless  it was able 
to apply an exclusion).  
But it seems  to me that after first reporting the leak to Fairmead and Mr O (on being directed 
by Fairmead) contacting the home emergency insurer,  he took no further  steps to repair the 
leak. I dont know what action the emergency  plumber took but its not unreasonable to 
assume he stabilised the emergency.  Im not sure why Mr O thought the emergency  plumber 
might return  but it appears, when he didnt, Mr O didnt arrange for a plumber of his own to 
fix whatever it was that caused the leak. 
I think Fairmead has handled Mr Os claim fairly  and reasonably in the circumstances so Im 
not going to ask it to do anymore. I say this because despite Mr O not arranging  for the 
cause of the leak to be repaired (despite being told by Fairmead  on several occasions that it 
was his responsibility to do so), Fairmead has accepted the claim for the damage visible  to 
Ref: DRN68831445its surveyor on his inspection in September 2018. By the time the inspection took place the 
leak had been  ongoing for over 5 weeks but Fairmead, fairly in my view, gave Mr O the 
benefit of the doubt and accepted the claim for damage observed by its surveyor  despite  
Mr O not having taken the steps required under the policy  to prevent further loss or damage 
by arranging for a plumber to fix the cause  of the leak.
Fairmead has said that its not willing  to accept liability for any damage that occurred after its 
surveyor visited Mr Os home. That seems  reasonable to me. The surveyor told Mr O during 
the visit that he needed to get the cause of the leak repaired. And Fairmead had already told 
Mr O twice before the surveyors  visit that this is what he needed to do. In the end, it seems  
that it wasnt until October 2018  that Mr O told Fairmead hed had the leak fixed. That was 
two months after it first started. 
I can see that the surveyor scoped  and costed the repairs  and that a cash settlement was 
offered to Mr O from which his policy excess was deducted. Fairmead said to Mr O it was 
cash settling his claim rather  than offering to repair the damage because its contractors 
wouldnt be able to carry out the insured repairs without tackling the uninsured damage 
which it wasnt prepared to cover. Ive seen the scope and the photographs of the damage  
taken by the surveyor in September 2018.  Having done so, I think Fairmeads  cash  
settlement seems fair to me and covers the extent of its liability  under the policy  terms. 
I think that the surveyor did unfairly  decline  the claim in the first instance  on the basis the 
damage was caused by failed grout/sealant which he said was excluded from cover  under 
the policy terms. Ive reviewed the policy  terms and have  seen  no such exclusion,  so I dont 
think it was fair for the surveyor to rely on an exclusion that didnt exist. That said,  I can see 
that Fairmead reviewed  Mr Os claim after receipt of his second report  and decided to accept 
it. I think that was fair of Fairmead given  the circumstances. 
Ive thought about Mr Os comment  that he didnt call a plumber because the policy terms 
precluded him from doing so. Specifically, he quoted two policy conditions. The first said that 
if he made a claim he mustnt negotiate,  admit  fault or make a payment without Fairmeads 
consent. Im unable to agree that this condition prevented him from calling a plumber. Doing 
so would not have required him to negotiate,  admit  fault or make a payment for which 
Fairmead could have potential liability for. 
Ive been through the policy terms and Im unable to see the second condition  Mr O 
mentions anywhere  so Im unable to comment on it here as I dont know  to what  areas  of 
cover it might or might  not have applied  to at the time. Insurers  often update their policy 
terms so I dont know if Mr O is quoting from those  that applied  at the time of his claim. The 
terms Fairmead had provided to this service dont include the term/condition  he quotes.  
I can see that Mr Os obtained his own building surveyors report  about the damage  at his 
house. Ive read the report and I think Fairmead  has fairly concluded it didnt show that the 
damage identified  in it was a result  of the initial leak Mr O had reported in August 2018.  I can 
see that it identifies that the property has suffered water damage,  but it says the damage 
was caused by a main  water pipe under the bath bursting. It says that wouldve released 
gallons of water in a short space of time. Ive also looked at the photographs and can see 
there is water staining to the kitchen ceiling.  I understand the kitchen is underneath the 
bathroom. 
If the main pipe to the bath had burst and released  gallons of water in a short space  of time, 
its not unreasonable to think that the damage would  be far worse  than some staining to the 
Ref: DRN68831446ceiling. Indeed, its not unreasonable to think that the sudden  release of gallons of water  
wouldve brought the kitchen ceiling down. So, I dont think  that Fairmead  treated Mr O 
unfairly by deciding to stick to the conclusions reached by its own surveyor  as observed  in 
September 2018 rather than those reported  by his surveyor in March 2019  some 7 months 
after the leak. 
I have to decide if Fairmead has treated  Mr O reasonably in the way it handled, and cash  
settled, his claim. For the reasons Ive given, I think that it has. As I dont think  Fairmead has 
treated Mr O unreasonably I cant fairly require it to pay him any compensation. I can see it 
paid him compensation of £100  for the delay in reviewing his contractors invoice. That 
seems fair to me. 
Fairmead replied to say it accepted my provisional findings and had nothing further to add. 
Mr O replied and made the following submissions:
His policy was provided by Fairmead; it was responsible for the provision of the home 
emergency cover on his policy and its required to mitigate  the risks that arise  from 
the services it provides;
The home emergency cover may be an add-on  but its to Fairmead he pays the 
premium. It is responsible for all the services for which it collects payment. He is 
Fairmeads client and not a client  of any service provider;
The home emergency plumber was incompetent and failed to stop the leak. The leak 
was not from failed grout/sealant. He himself  discovered and fixed the cause of the 
leak;
Fairmead failed through its home  emergency service provider to correctly identify and 
fix the source of the leak. If it had, then further  damage wouldve been avoided;
It is Fairmeads fault that the home emergency service provider failed to provide a 
service. It didnt  tell him that that it couldnt  continue with the work to stop the leak. 
Fairmead shouldve  taken charge of the situation  from the day he reported the leak to 
the day it restored  his property to its pre-leak condition. The dates  before  or after the 
surveyor visited are irrelevant;
Fairmead must show his home emergency cover  is with another provider;
The damage worsened not because he allowed it to, but because Fairmead didnt tell 
him it couldnt identify  and fix the leak. Hed legally transferred the responsibility for 
doing so to Fairmead the minute he first notified  them; 
I must  determine who is responsible for the leak;
That he wants proof another  insurer is responsible for providing the home emergency 
cover. He did not sign a contract with any other  party nor does he pay another  party  
for his home emergency cover;
He took responsibility  for repairing the leak by calling Fairmead in the first place and 
by phoning his local authority;
The damage caused by the escape  of water  was extensive  and Fairmeads  
photographs of it are incomplete  and dont represent the full extent of the damage.  I 
am wrong to rely on the surveyors  photographs;
The policy terms do include an exclusion for damage thats  the result of failed 
grout/sealant;
The policy terms and conditions did preclude him from calling his own plumber and 
he has now been shown  to be right not to have done so as Fairmead wouldnt have 
reimbursed him as shown  by the fact it asked  him to get quote for the repairs that it 
had no intention of honouring;
Ref: DRN68831447The second condition  he referred  to and which I said I couldnt locate is in the policy 
terms and it influenced his decision not to call out a plumber;
I should consider  how the two companies  Fairmead and the home emergency 
provider  are contractually related. They appear  to belong to a strategic alliance 
combining resources;  
He didnt choose the provider of the home emergency cover  from the open  market.
The complaint was returned  to me to issue my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive noted  the extensive response Mr O has made to my provisional findings its not 
persuaded me to change my mind about  the outcome of his complaint. Ive cited above 
many of the points he made in response. Some of the others he made arent set out but I 
would like to state  that I have  read them all. Those I havent listed  above merely repeated 
points Mr O had made  prior to my issuing my provisional decision and consequently already  
considered by me within it. 
I asked Fairmead to confirm that the policy terms and conditions  they sent us were  definitely 
the ones in force (and to which I referred in my provisional decision) at the time Mr O made 
his claim  which it was able to do. Those  policy terms, under the section related to Home 
Emergency (part 3), state that cover is provided  by another insurer. Mr O wouldve received 
a copy of the terms and conditions  when  he first took his policy  out together with any 
changes at each  renewal.  I appreciate  he didnt  search for home  emergency  cover on the 
open market and that its to Fairmead  he pays his premium, but its not responsible  for 
providing that cover. It is clear from the policy terms that the home  emergency  insurer  is 
responsible for the services provided under that section, not Fairmead.  
It remains the case then that any complaint Mr O has about the service he received from the 
home emergency insurer must be directed  to it. 
Im unable to agree  that Fairmead failed to directly  identify  and fix the source of leak.   As I 
set out in my provisional decision, it had no policy liability to do so. Fairmeads liability  
extends only to indemnifying Mr O for any damage  caused to his property by any of the 
insured events listed in his policy.  As it had no liability under the policy  to identify  and fix the 
leak I cant fairly determine Fairmead allowed  the damage to worsen.  I can see it told Mr O 
on more than one occasion that hed need to arrange to get the leak repaired. Mr O may well 
have decided to unilaterally legally  transfer all responsibility for fixing  the leak to Fairmead, 
but Ive seen no evidence that it said it would accept that responsibility at any point. 
I cant say who is responsible for the leak, thats a matter for Mr O. Hes complained  that 
Fairmead has failed  to take responsibility  and Ive set out why I cant reasonably  agree it has 
any duty to do so. 
I reviewed all the photographs provided  before I issued my provisional decision  they 
include those within Mr Os own surveyors report. So, I have not relied solely  on those 
provided by Fairmead  when reaching  my decision.  
As I said provisionally, I found no policy exclusion  which would permit Fairmead to decline a 
claim on the basis the damage  was caused  by failed grout/sealant.
Ref: DRN68831448I appreciate the strength of Mr Os feeling  that the policy terms precluded  him from calling 
his own plumber but I set out provisionally why I thought this wasnt  the case and nothing he 
has said in response  to my provisional decision has persuaded  me to change  my mind  on 
this aspect of his complaint. 
Its not my role to consider whether any contractual relationship (or strategic alliance) exists 
between Fairmead  and the home  emergency  provider.  I have  to decide whether Fairmead 
has treated Mr O fairly and reasonably in the way it dealt with his home insurance claim. For 
the reasons Ive given, both here and provisionally, I think  it has.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020..
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6883144