K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds  Bank PLC, Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs F bought the policy at a meeting in 1998  at the same  time as taking a mortgage. 
They increased the policy cover in 2003 when taking a further advance. In 2004 they applied 
to increase it again when taking another further  advance and that increase started  in 2005.
At the time of the sale in 1998,  Mrs F had been with her employer more than five years. Mr F 
told us hed been with his employer for two years,  but the mortgage  application  Mr and Mrs F 
signed in 1998 says Mr F had been with his employer  around four months. It also says Mr F 
had suffered two periods of unemployment  in the preceding three years and Mrs Fs salary 
was less than half Mr Fs. Mr and Mrs F have said that they were  entitled to less than six but 
at least three  months full sick pay and that Mr F was entitled to redundancy pay. Theyve 
also said they were told the policy would cover  Mr F for unemployment and redundancy.
Subject to its exclusions and limitations, the PPI provided cover  for Mr F for accident  and 
sickness as well as unemployment. For a successful claim,  it would pay Mr and Mrs Fs 
monthly mortgage payment (around  £593  at the time of the mortgage offer)  plus £3 for every 
£1000 of the initial mortgage  amount (around  £256) and premiums for certain associated 
insurances if those insurances  were  taken with Lloyds. The policy premium started at around  
£43 per month, according to the policy  schedule.
The policy benefit  increased in 2003 to cover the further advance  payment (around £581 a 
month at the time of the loan offer) plus £3 for every £1000 of the initial mortgage (around 
£261). Notes from the time say the policy premium was to increase to around £86. For the 
2005 further advance,  the benefit  was around £216  plus £3 for every £1000 of the initial  
mortgage (£90) and the policy premium increased  to around £101 at that point.
At the time of and according to the 2003 further  advance application form they signed, Mrs F 
was employed and had been  there  less than two years; Mr F was with a new employer,  had 
been there more  than four years  and was by far the higher earner. Mr and Mrs F were still 
with these employers  at the time of and according to their 2004 further advance application.
From what  theyve told us, Mrs F hadnt had health issues and Mr F hadnt missed work  with 
the health issue hed been  treated  for more than 15 years before the policy  start and missed  
two weeks with an issue he had an operation  for around eight years before  the policy start. 
He hasnt told us of having had any other  health issues or any longer health  related work 
absences prior to taking  the mortgage or the further  advances mentioned  above.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that, as already noted, Mr and Mrs F took a further 
advance that started  in 2005. This also shows that the offer of advance was not made  to or 
signed by Mr and Mrs F until after October  2004.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Fs representative says:
Ref: DRN68113212Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have 
taken the PPI and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Fs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Lloyds should have told Mr and Mrs F 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs F and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs F received was misleading. These policies were promoted  
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on 
our website and published  some  example  final decisions that set out in detail how these  
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
This PPI policy was sold in 1998  before the General Insurance Standards Council  (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and the sale and the two increases  all took place 
before the sale of general insurance products like this became regulated  in January 2005. 
Ref: DRN68113213So, the GISC Code  isnt applicable for the 1998  sale and the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching 
Principles for Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable  
to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs F arranged  a further advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. In saying  this I note also the 
most recent points Mr and Mrs F have made  about  court rulings concerning  commissions.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time of sale,  which  Im satisfied 
are applicable to my consideration  of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
At the time of the policy increases there was also, in particular, The General Insurance 
Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  the GISC Code. The 
increases were made during  a period of industry  self-regulation by the General  Insurance  
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the relevant times. So Im satisfied I should take into account  
these codes and these other publications, including for the increases the GISC code, when 
deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs 
case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  for the 1998  sale Im also required to take into account 
what determination the relevant former  scheme  the Office of the Banking Ombudsman in 
this case  might have been  expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note 
that under  the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was required to 
Ref: DRN68113214decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the PPI was appropriate  or suitable for them, given  their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Fs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs F and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs F know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr and Mrs F signed a PPI proposal form 
in 1998, separate from their mortgage  application  form.  The PPI form indicated  Mr and Mrs F 
wanted Mr F insured  for 100% of their mortgage costs. They signed a similar  form for the 
cover in 2003 and Mr F signed another to apply for the cover  in 2004. So, it looks like the 
PPI was presented  each  time as something separate  from the mortgage. Also, Mr and Mrs F 
havent said the PPI wasnt  presented as optional - or said that they didnt choose to take it. 
Mr F also signed a separate direct debit to pay for the cover in 1998.
Also, Ive not seen anything from the sales to suggest Mr and Mrs F had to take the PPI or 
had to sign the proposal forms  to apply for it if they didnt want  it. Also, above where they 
signed the 2003 mortgage application  was a box ticked to say Mr and Mrs F wished to apply 
for PPI cover   and there was also a box there  to tick if the cover  wasnt  wanted.
Taking everything into account,  I think its likely  Mr and Mrs F knew the PPI was optional  and 
agreed to take it each  time and without  undue pressure.
Ref: DRN68113215did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds and Mr and Mrs F agree advice  was given when the PPI was sold.  This means 
Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
PPI was appropriate or suitable given  their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  at the sales, the documentary evidence  suggests 
Lloyds took some steps to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs F. Lloyds  had information about some of Mr and Mrs Fs financial circumstances 
as part of their mortgage  and subsequent further  advance applications  for example the 
1998, 2003  and 2004 borrowing  forms recorded their salaries and employment start dates. 
But I dont think Lloyds  did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs F and to 
establish they had a need for it. For example,  Ive nothing  to show  that Lloyds asked about 
Mr Fs work  sickness  or redundancy  benefits.
The declaration signed by and Mr and Mrs F on the 1998 and 2003 PPI application  forms, 
and by Mr F in 2004, asked that they confirm they were working at least 16 hours per week,  
werent aware of any impending unemployment  or hospitalisation and werent  receiving 
ongoing medical treatment for persistent or recurring  conditions. But I cant  see that Lloyds 
established that all these points applied to Mr F before giving him the applications  to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it shouldve done to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr and Mrs F, I do think its more likely than not it was ultimately  suitable  for them.  In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the PPI.
-Mr and Mrs F had a need for the PPI - Mr F was by far the higher earner each  time and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs F wouldve suffered a significant drop in income were Mr F not 
working for an extended period.  So the policy benefit wouldve helped  Mr and Mrs F 
manage the consequences  if Mr F lost his income. Also, it seems possible that in that 
situation their finances wouldve been put under strain without the benefit, bearing in 
mind also that for the 1998 sale theyve  said they were financially stretched at the time.
-Although Mr and Mrs F say they were financially stretched, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the PPI unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs F. There 
was nothing about Mr Fs employment or occupation  which  wouldve made it difficult  for 
them to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for mental health or 
back problems. Mr and Mrs F couldnt  have claimed for any disability suffered by Mr F 
due to one of the health issues hes told us about if it occurred or re-occurred during the 
first 24 months of cover. But taking into account all Mr F has told us about those health 
issues, and in particular  how long it had been since  these had caused any work  absence  
and the short nature of that absence, and given what the PPI would still cover, Im not 
Ref: DRN68113216persuaded this exclusion  meant the cover  wouldnt have still been useful for Mr F or that 
it made Lloyds recommendation of the cover unsuitable.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the PPI (including that no benefit  was payable 
for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment, the PPI would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim and for disability  Mr F had to be unable to do his 
own job and unable  to do any similar job he might reasonably  become  qualified for in 
view of his training, education and ability). But the PPI still provided valuable cover  given:
Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances, including Mrs Fs income  and Mr Fs work benefits 
(which they mightve expected to give an income  during  the policys  60-day 
qualification period),  the limits to Mr Fs work benefits  and the significant loss of 
income Mr and Mrs F could suffer if Mr F lost his job or was too sick to work  for an 
extended time (and the impact  this might have on Mr and Mrs Fs ability  to meet  
mortgage related  costs).
The PPI helped protect payments relating to the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Fs home 
and I bear in mind  the potential consequences  should they have become unable to 
pay the loans  secured  against  their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the PPI to enable them to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the PPI.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs F were given a broad description  of what  the 
PPI was intended to cover  (that is, it would protect  their mortgage payments if Mr F were  
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs F would have  taken the 
PPI without any sense  of what it was for and of how much it might cost.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs F agreed to take the PPI. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI on each occasion  was a suitable  recommendation  for them,  Im not 
persuaded Lloyds did enough to present information about the PPI it was recommending  in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs F. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave them all 
the information they needed about the PPI to make an informed decision on each  occasion  
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take the PPI.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Fs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Fs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN68113217-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Fs representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs F have suggested. And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Lloyds  ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs F? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Lloyds didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs F. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs F 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the PPI, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I have found the PPI on each occasion  
was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances, it seems to me that whether  or not Mr and Mrs F have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether if Lloyds had explained things  properly 
Mr and Mrs F wouldve acted differently or whether they wouldve taken the PPI in any event.
Mr and Mrs F say they wouldnt have taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs F had some  interest  in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean,  when Lloyds  advised them there  was a suitable product 
they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments if Mr F were unable to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  Mr and Mrs F concluded they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got.
Ref: DRN68113218As I explained earlier, Im satisfied, from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances,  
that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for them.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs F the exact  premium  when they applied  for the PPI 
each time.  But I think they knew they would have to pay something for the PPI (and I bear in 
mind the direct debit  Mr F signed). Also, I consider unlikely Mr and Mrs F would have agreed 
to take the PPI without having  been  given an idea of the approximate costs.  Also,  if when 
they came  to pay for it the costs  had been  significantly  at odds with their expectations when 
they bought it, its possible  Mr and Mrs F mightve raised this with Lloyds  or reconsidered  
their decision  - instead they paid for the PPI for a number of years, including  increases as 
outlined above.  Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs F wouldve  found the costs 
unacceptable if they had been given the exact  figures each time they agreed to the PPI.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs F would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its likely they expected,  if 
they werent also told, that in the event of a claim the policy  would pay an amount sufficient 
to meet  their monthly mortgage payment.  So I think the policy at least met Mr and Mrs Fs 
likely expectations about that and, if anything, actually paid more  in the event of a claim than 
they would  have expected  - as there was an additional cash payment. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability if due to a pre-existing health issue (a health 
issue Mr F knew or ought to have  known about  at the policy start date or had seen or 
arranged to see a doctor  for in the 12 months before the policy  start date) occurring or 
re-occurring during the first 24 months of cover;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr F wasnt 
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr F not only be unable  to do 
his own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
reasonably become  qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months per claim, rather than the remaining  
term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the PPI 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs F from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr F was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs F should the insured risks have  become  a reality.  
Mr and Mrs F couldnt have claimed for disability Mr F suffered if due to one of the health 
issues hed already had treatment for, if it occurred or re-occurred during the first 24 months  
of cover.  But taking  into account all Mr F has told us about his health, how long it had been  
since his health  had caused  a work  absence and the short  nature  of that absence,  Im not 
persuaded this exclusion  wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Fs decision to take the PPI, bearing  
Ref: DRN68113219in mind also what the PPI would still cover.  I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr F 
wouldve been caught by any of the other  significant  exclusions   he was in permanent  
employment, for example. So, I think Mr and Mrs F still had good  reasons to take the PPI.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs F would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs F had known they could only claim for disability if Mr F were  unable to do his 
own job and unable to do any similar job the insurer thought he was or might reasonably 
become qualified for in view of his training, education and ability, it might  have  played  into 
Mr and Mrs Fs thinking about what to do. And I accept it may have given them  pause for 
thought  although its possible they may not have been overly concerned given  that if Mr F 
were unable (through disability) to do his own job, the chances he would  be able to take up a 
similar job would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs F the first 60 days  of any disability or unemployment  
Mr F suffered wouldnt be covered  and may not have told them  any claim would be limited  
to a 12 month period. All this may have  differed from what  they expected and might  have 
hoped for. But given the substantial loss of income  they were  likely to suffer if Mr F couldnt 
work for an extended  period,  I consider  it likely Mr and Mrs F would still have thought  PPI 
that after 60 days paid their mortgage for up to 12 months, would be of benefit and help 
them manage the consequences if Mr F couldnt  work in the circumstances the PPI covered. 
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made and could help reduce Mr and Mrs Fs 
outgoings at what  could a difficult and uncertain  time if Mr F were unemployed or too sick to 
work, helping to make it less likely  Mr and Mrs Fs home  would be placed at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs F would  still have taken the PPI. It was suitable for them, sufficiently close to 
what its likely they thought they were  getting  and provided benefits  that would help them 
manage the consequences  if Mr F were made redundant,  or unable to work through accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr and Mrs F would have 
taken the PPI in any event, notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs F would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN681132110Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs F believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the PPI. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI 
had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the PPI they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs F compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr and Mrs F think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998,  2003 and 2004 when providing  information about an insurance  policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Fs representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs F and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs F in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN681132111
Ref: DRN6811321