K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) wrongly 
applied charges and interest to his account and recorded adverse information  on his credit  
file. 
background 
Mr O got in touch with Very in 2018 after it applied a late payment charge and recorded a 
missed/late payment on his credit file. Very said this related to an unpaid delivery fee of 
£3.99 for goods  that Mr O ordered  in September 2018. Mr O says he checked his account 
online the following  month and there was nothing to pay so there was no late payment. He 
thinks Very also applied  interest to his account  incorrectly. 
Very acknowledged  some interest  charges  were  wrong and provided a refund and sent Mr O 
a cheque for £10 for inconvenience  but Mr O remained  unhappy. He says there was delay 
dealing with his complaint, statements did not make sense and interest  continued to be 
applied incorrectly. He doesnt accept that he was told a payment was due in November 
2018 and he wants Very to refund the late payment  fee and amend his credit  file. 
Very accepted a small interest refund (63p) remained outstanding and offered to put the 
account right and pay Mr O another £25.00 in recognition of any inconvenience caused. 
Very says Mr O didnt  make the payment due in November  2018 so it shouldnt  have  to 
refund the late payment charge or remove the late payment marker.  
Our investigator recommends the complaint  should  be upheld  in part. He looked at 
information about Verys online process  and statements from Mr Os account, amongst  other  
things. Hes satisfied that 
information about the way Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) works is provided to 
customers when an order is placed;
delivery costs are excluded from BNPL terms and the £3.99 delivery charge was 
properly applied to Mr Os account;
the £3.99 charge appeared on Mr Os October 2018 statement (numbered 140) 
which showed payment was due no later than 2 November 2018; and 
that payment  was not made on time so it wasnt wrong to apply a charge and record  
a missed payment.  
He doesnt think  it would  be reasonable to require Very to remove the late payment marker  
or refund the late payment charge in these circumstances. Hes satisfied that Very 
acknowledged some  interest was applied incorrectly and provided a refund and paid Mr O 
£10 compensation.  He thinks the offer Very made after Mr O referred the complaint to our 
service - to refund additional  interest and pay Mr O another £25 compensation - sounds fair 
overall. Hes not persuaded that Very should have to do anything further.   
Mr O disagrees.  He says the payment wasnt required when he checked  his account in 
October 2018. He cant access  statements that far back and supply a copy  of the information 
that he saw at the time. But, he provided some more recent statements which  contain similar 
delivery charges.  He says the way this charge is displayed  demonstrates  that the £3.99 
delivery charge  would not have been  due for payment on his October  2018  statement. 
Ref: DRN63735502Our investigator looked at this additional information  and compared  it to statements from 
September/October 2018. He accepts  the £3.99  delivery charge appeared under  a section 
titled items you dont need  to pay for now in Mr Os September  2018 statement.  But he 
says this is because  the delivery  charge becomes  payable the month after an order is 
placed. Hes satisfied the £3.99  charge was shown  on the October 2018 statement, a 
minimum payment was due in November 2018 and that payment  wasnt  made in line with 
the account terms. He didnt  change his view that Very hadnt  made  a mistake by applying  a 
late payment charge  or reporting this on Mr Os credit record. 
Mr O asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr O but Ive 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
I can see that Mr O feels strongly about what happened here and I understand his 
frustration. I want to assure him that I have  considered everything thats been said and sent 
to us carefully. 
late payment 
Theres no dispute that Mr O bought  several items using the BNPL  option  on his catalogue 
account in September 2018  and incurred a delivery charge of £3.99. Ive considered the 
terms and conditions of his account  and Im satisfied these explain in detail how BNPL 
works. 
Basically, interest accrues  from the date of purchase  and no interest  is payable  if the full 
amount due for the items is paid off by or before the payment due date. I think the terms and 
conditions make it reasonably clear  that delivery charges are not included  in the BNPL  terms 
- meaning the £3.99 charge Mr O incurred in September  could not be deferred (or paid 
later) in the same  way as interest. 
Ive seen Mr Os account  statement  for September 2018 and I accept the delivery  charge of 
£3.99 was added to his account under the items you dont  need  to pay for now section. But, 
Im satisfied that Mr Os next statement - dated 13 October 2018 - shows the delivery charge 
in the items youve  ordered  section and says a minimum payment of £3.99 was due by 2 
November 2018.  A notice  in that statement also reminded Mr O that missed  payments could 
result in charges  and adversely impact  on his credit history - which reflects  the account  
terms and conditions that say missed  payments  will incur a charge and may be reported to 
credit reference agencies. 
Mr O says he checked his account  online in October  2018  and there  was no payment due. 
Information from Very confirms that Mr O accessed  his account on 14 October 2018. And Im 
satisfied that information  in the statement dated  13 October 2018 would have been available 
to him at that time.  And I think Very provided  enough information  to let Mr O know  that a 
minimum payment had to be made by 2 November 2018. 
Im satisfied that Mr O didnt make this payment by the due date. I think he should 
reasonably have been aware that payment  was required. And I cant  fairly find it was wrong 
of Very to record a missed payment and apply  a late charge, in this situation. 
Ref: DRN63735503I have considered the additional information  Mr O supplied, after our investigator sent his 
view. Mr O says this shows that the £3.99 delivery  charge would not have been  payable in 
his October 2018  statement.  Im sorry to disappoint  Mr O but I dont agree - for the same  
reasons as our investigator. 
Having considered the relevant account  terms and conditions and the information in Mr Os 
statements, I cant fairly find that Mr O should reasonably  have failed to realise  that payment 
was due in November 2018. Im satisfied that payment was not made on time. And I cant 
fairly find it was wrong of Very to report late payment information and apply a late payment 
fee - in line with the terms and conditions of his account. I am therefore unable  to reasonably 
require Very to remove the charge or the late payment  marker.
Mr O makes the point that he was a loyal customer and always  paid on time in the past.  I 
have no doubt  this was a genuine mistake on his part and I understand his frustration.  But, 
Im afraid that doesnt mean Very has to waive the late fee or amend his credit file in these 
circumstances. It is open  to Mr O to seek to add a notice of correction to his credit  record to 
explain what  happened, which could be viewed by prospective lenders, should he wish to do 
so. 
interest 
I think its understandable that Mr O found it confusing when interest was added  to his 
account when  he didnt think this was due. And I can see it must  have  been  frustrating to 
have to wait until Very clarified that some interest had been applied  incorrectly.  I am satisfied 
however that Very acknowledged mistakes were  made within  a reasonable time, apologised 
and refunded some interest and paid Mr O £10 for inconvenience. After  Mr O referred his 
complaint to our service, Very confirmed that an additional small amount of interest was 
applied incorrectly. It offered to refund that as well and pay Mr O another  £25 in recognition 
of the distress and inconvenience he experienced. I think  this seems fair and reasonable 
overall and I cant reasonably require Very to do more.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint in part and (if it hasnt done so already) I require Shop 
Direct Finance Company  Limited (trading as Very) to refund 63p interest and pay Mr O 
another £25 compensation for distress and inconvenience, in line with the offer it made  
previously. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6373550