K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) gave her loans that she 
couldnt afford.
background
Miss A took out seven  loans  with Cashfloat between July 2016 and July 2017.
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Date repaid Scheduled number of 
repayments
1 3/7/2016 £300 29/7/2016 2
2 5/8/2016 £300 30/9/2016 3
3 5/1/2017 £200 27/1/2017 2
4 5/2/2017 £200 17/2/2017 2
5 26/4/2017 £400 11/5/2017 3
6 5/6/2017 £400 10/7/2017 3
7 16/7/2017 £350 outstanding 3
Miss A repaid some  of the loans early  but loan seven remains outstanding. 
The adjudicator recommended that Miss As complaint should be upheld  in part. In 
summary, she thought  that it wasnt unfair  of Cashfloat to agree loans one to three. But the 
adjudicator didnt think that it was reasonable of Cashfloat to agree loans four to seven.
The adjudicator recommended that Cashfloat refund all interest and charges that Miss A 
paid on loans four to seven with interest on the refund.  And she said it should remove  all 
entries about those  loans  from Miss As credit file.
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators view but offered to pay Miss A £100  
compensation. Miss A isnt willing to accept this offer so the complaints been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN67294682the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Miss A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss As complaint.
loans one to three
Before agreeing each of these loans, Cashfloat asked Miss A for details of her income, living 
costs and regular  credit commitments. Miss A put nothing down for other credit 
commitments.
Given the amount  of each loan I wouldve usually said that Cashfloats checks were  
proportionate. However,  Cashfloat carried out some  credit checks which  indicated  that    
Miss A did have other  credit commitments, including some  outstanding payday loans. 
I think that the credit checks shouldve  prompted  Cashfloat to do more to try and establish 
how much  Miss A was paying her other creditors each month. But even if Cashfloat had 
done this, its likely that it wouldve still appeared that Miss A could afford to repay loans one 
to three. It follows that I dont uphold Miss As complaint about these three  loans.
loans four to seven
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Miss A, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further 
Ref: DRN67294683lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Cashfloat should  have  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss As case, I think this point was reached  by loan 
four. I say this because:
loan four was Miss As fourth loan from Cashfloat in about eight months. Although  there 
had been a gap of just over three months between loans  two and three, Miss A applied  
for loan four less than a week  after repaying  loan three.  
there was a gap of just over two months  between repaying loan four and applying  for 
loan five but Miss A asked to borrow  twice  the amount. Miss A borrowed a further £400 
less than a month later. Miss A then applied for her final loan less than a week after 
repaying loan six. 
I think that the pattern of lending shouldve  alerted Cashfloat  to the likelihood  that Miss A 
was having problems managing her money. So I think it should  have been  concerned  
that she wouldnt be able to repay  the loans sustainably.
I think that Miss A lost out because  Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss As indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Miss A had been borrowing 
from Cashfloat, was likely  to have had negative implications on her ability to access 
mainstream credit. This kept Miss A in the market for these high-cost loans. 
So Im upholding  Miss As complaint about  loans four to seven
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss A paid on loans four to seven;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan seven;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan seven 
before paying  any remaining balance (if there  is any) to Miss A; and
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means that any information  about 
them is negative.  So all entries  about loans four to seven  should be removed from     
Miss As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Miss A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Cashfloat 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Ref: DRN67294684my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss As complaint in part and direct  Western  Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN6729468