K821x#15complaint
Ms H has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled  a claim for an escape  
of water  under  a flats property owners  insurance policy and the settlement  it made  her.
background
In 2017 Ms H's basement  flat was damaged by sewage water. AXA accepted the claim  and 
appointed a loss adjuster  to handle it.
Ms H needed to move out of her flat for repairs  to be carried out. The parties discussed her 
staying at a hotel abroad. AXA says it authorised costs of £12,002 for 27 nights at a hotel. 
Since the original hotel was no longer available Ms H told AXA she would work to this limit 
wherever possible. The works  took longer  than expected to complete and Ms H was away 
from her flat for 96 nights, returning  home on 19 September 2018.
AXA made a number of interim payments to Ms H to cover amongst other things her 
accommodation costs.  After Ms H had moved back home, AXA said it would pay her daily 
allowances of £25 for food and £3.50 for laundry costs.  Ms H said she was unhappy with 
this as she'd been  led to believe she could claim £50 a day on food on average. She 
thought AXA should pay her what she'd spent as shown by her receipts  or pay her an 
allowance of £50 a day for food and drink. She also wanted AXA to pay the interest 
charges she said she'd  incurred on her credit card because of delay by AXA in paying her 
expenses, the charges for foreign currency transactions on her credit card and her flight 
costs. AXA didn't agree to pay these additional  costs.
Ms H felt she'd been bullied by its loss adjuster to make her accept a reduced settlement. 
She said her credit  rating had been  damaged  because of AXA's delayed payments. She 
also complained  AXA's loss adjuster telling  her neighbour she was over-claiming 
expenses, the loss adjuster not being FCA regulated and the loss adjuster  having been 
fined previously for a data protection breach.
AXA didn't  accept that it acted unreasonably. It thought the amount it had paid in respect  of 
accommodation and allowances was reasonable. It said it had found no evidence of 
delayed or outstanding payments. It said Ms H had delayed matters  by not providing 
acceptable evidence  of what she was claiming  for. It also said the policy  was in the name  
of a limited company and its loss adjuster had only discussed the claim with a director of 
the company who was entitled to the information.  Lastly it said the loss adjuster  didn't need 
to be FCA regulated since it was acting  as agent for AXA which  is FCA regulated and it 
was aware that its loss adjuster had been  fined but that wasn't  in respect of an AXA claim 
and it had confidence in them.
Ms H brought her complaint to this service.  I issued a provisional decision upholding the 
complaint in part. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
The main area of dispute between the parties concerns the additional costs  Ms H incurred 
while she was staying  in hotels. There seems to have been some discussion beforehand  
about where Ms H would stay. AXA didn't have any objection to Ms H staying in fairly 
luxurious hotels abroad.
After making a number  of large interim payments to Ms H (the last of these in August 
2018), AXA's loss adjuster started asking for receipts. AXA hadn't  given Ms H a 
Ref: DRN61598682breakdown of what the interim payments were intended to cover.  Ms H thinks  the change 
of approach amounts to "moving the goal posts" on her claim and is unfair. I can 
understand why she might have felt like this with regard to her everyday expenditure. 
That's because  I can't  see that AXA set down any clear parameters for Ms H regarding 
these expenses. Ms H says that an allowance of £50 a day for food and drink  was 
discussed with AXA's loss adjuster or payment on proof of expenses.  AXA denies that. 
I've seen no proof on the file of such a conversation having taken place. In looking at 
compensation for trouble  and upset I'll take into account the stress  AXA caused Ms H by 
not being clear  about what was covered from the outset.
Despite the lack of clarity I consider an allowance by an insurer  of £25 a day for food and 
drink to be generous compared with the industry standard  of £10 a day for an adult. Even if 
a consumer stays in a luxury hotel, I still expect them to mitigate their costs.  I note that 
according to AXA some of the receipts  included  champagne and meals for more than one 
person. I don't  think it would be reasonable to require AXA to pay any more  in this respect. 
I also think the amount which  AXA has since offered for laundry costs  (£3.50 a day) is 
reasonable.
I think AXA showed flexibility in allowing  Ms H to live abroad during the repair  works but I 
can't see that this ever extended to it agreeing to pay Ms H's travel  costs or other expenses 
that she wouldn't have incurred if she'd stayed in the UK, like the foreign currency  costs  
charged by her credit card provider. In fact at one point it expressly refused to pay for inter-
continental business flights. So I think it was reasonable for AXA to refuse to pay these 
costs.
AXA says that Ms H delayed payment because she didn't have acceptable evidence of 
what she was claiming for. I accept  that there were missing receipts. But at the end of the 
day AXA put Ms H to a great deal of time and trouble  by requiring this evidence  when it 
didn't actually base its payment on it anyway. On 3 September  2018 Ms H told AXA she 
was £20,000 in debt because of claim-related expenses. I can see that AXA made a 
further interim payment of £7,500 on 10 September 2018. There  was then some  
correspondence between  AXA and its loss adjuster about the accommodation  expenses. 
On 2 November  AXA paid Ms H £21,121.
I think bearing in mind there was no doubt  that Ms H had actually incurred these  expenses  
- the only question was how much  of them AXA could  reasonably be expected to pay - 
AXA should have  dealt with this more  promptly. The delay  caused Ms H unnecessary  
stress about the amount of her debt. Ms H has shown that this adversely affected  her 
mental health. To put things right I think AXA should pay Ms H compensation of £500  for 
trouble and upset and pay interest  at the rate charged by her credit card provider at the 
relevant time on the £21,121 from 19 September 2018 (being the date when she stopped 
incurring accommodation expenses and the works  were largely finished) to 2 November 
2018 (when it paid her this sum).
It seems  by September  2018  AXA's loss adjuster had realised that it wouldn't be 
acceptable to AXA to settle the claim on the basis  of receipts,  so it discussed a daily 
allowance. I think  this was sensible in principle bearing in mind the nature of some of the 
expenses. I appreciate that Ms H might  well have found this disappointing but I'm not 
persuaded the loss adjuster's behaviour amounted to bullying.
I can understand that Ms H being  concerned that her credit rating was no longer as good  
as it had been (broadly speaking, it fell from excellent to average). But I think she could 
Ref: DRN61598683have reduced the impact  of this if she'd been  more moderate in her spending  since  she 
should have been aware that AXA was likely to query some of her expenses at the very 
least. I'm not persuaded that AXA is responsible  for any financial loss arising from this but 
I've taken into account Miss H's concern  when  looking at compensation for trouble and 
upset above.
I won't  comment on any breach of data protection by AXA's loss adjuster  discussing 
details of the claim with Ms H's neighbour who was a director  of the company in whose 
name the policy was taken out, since Ms H has raised a separate  complaint with the 
Information Commissioner's Office regarding this.
It was up to AXA to decide how best to handle Ms H's claim.  It chose to appoint a loss 
adjuster and so, as I've found,  it's liable for any failings on the part of the loss adjuster  
when acting as its agent. AXA is correct in saying the loss adjuster doesn't need to be a 
regulated entity. In any event I can't see that this in itself has adversely impacted Ms H. 
Similarly I don't think Ms H has suffered because of any failings on the part of the loss 
adjuster when dealing  with an entirely separate claim.
Ms H has made a large  number of points in response to my provisional decision.  In 
summary these were:
She wasnt offered  alternative accommodation  comparable to her own property which 
would have  been a five star hotel suite near her flat.
AXAs loss adjuster suggested she went to France and so should  pay her travel  
expenses.
AXAs loss adjuster had suggested a daily allowance  of £50 for food and drink and shed 
never claimed for more than that.
Since AXA had reimbursed her for the first meal costing £32.01,  it was legally bound to 
pay for other meals  in the same price range.
There were no missing receipts.
Ms H asked me to consider  awarding her further compensation.
Shes been severely ill because of the pressure shes been under.
She had to re-mortgage to raise funds  to pay off her credit card debts, thereby incurring 
further costs.
She is still owed money  for the final painting of her flat;
Minor  snagging works are still outstanding.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under her policy Ms H was entitled to reasonable alternative accommodation. I dont think  
that implies only a suite in a luxury hotel would be suitable. It just means that the 
accommodation should be suitable for her to live her normal life  like working  and social 
activities. 
Initially the works were  supposed to take less than a month. Short-term  rental  properties  in 
Ms Hs area were  limited.  In these situations  we expect an insurer to work  with the consumer 
to find a reasonable solution or compromise.  Both parties seemed happy with the proposal 
that Ms H should spend some time in hotels abroad rather  than near where she lived. But I 
Ref: DRN61598684havent seen any evidence that AXAs loss adjuster  came up with the idea of a hotel abroad  
or that AXA agreed to cover anything more  than accommodation costs such  as travel, 
foreign currency charges  etc. In my experience  it would be unusual  for an insurer to do so. 
Id only consider it was fair for an insurer  to have to pay these costs if a consumer had no 
choice but to incur  them.  I think Ms H did have a choice.
Unlike accommodation costs, expenses on food and drink  arent  usually specifically covered 
by most insurance policies. But we generally think its fair and good  industry  practice for an 
insurer to cover the reasonable additional costs  a consumer has incurred in eating out, 
breakfast expenses or buying ready meals over and above their usual expenditure. I cant 
see that the loss adjuster agreed  a daily allowance of £50 a day for food and drink. In view of 
the fact that the industry standard  is £10 a day for an adult, I think  AXA treated Ms H fairly in 
giving her an allowance of £25 for food and drink  and a further £3.50 a day for laundry costs. 
When Ms H claimed £32.01 for a meal, in my view that should have triggered a discussion 
as to what level of expenses AXA would consider reasonable. Ive taken into account that 
failing when looking at how much compensation AXA should pay. But I dont think it would  
be fair to see that as setting the bar for what would  be reasonable for the rest of the claim. If 
Ms H believes she might  be entitled  in law to more  than what  AXA has allowed in respect  of 
a daily allowance, she should take legal advice before accepting this decision.   
I apologise if there were  no missing  receipts.  What  I do know is that AXA thought there  were  
missing receipts and the whole issue of receipts became so complicated that AXA decided  it 
didnt need them anyway. This was part of the larger failing on AXAs  part in getting to grips 
with the whole issue of expenses.
Im sorry  to hear that Ms H has been ill. Ive looked again at the amount of compensation 
that should be paid in respect of the trouble and upset caused  by AXA. But I remain  of the 
opinion that £500 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Im also sorry  that Ms H felt she had to re-mortgage  to pay off her credit card debts. But for 
the reasons explained in my provisional findings  I dont think AXA is liable to pay her any 
more in respect of her claim expenses. So I dont  think it can be considered  to be liable for 
anything other than interest  on one delayed payment. 
Unfortunately for Ms H the snagging and painting werent part of her original complaint to 
AXA, so she will have to make a separate complaint to AXA regarding these aspects of her 
claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay Ms H £500 for 
trouble and upset  and interest* on the sum of £21,121 for the period from 19 September  
2018 to 2 November 2018 at the rate charged by Ms H's credit  card provider for the relevant 
period.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61598685*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off 
income tax from any interest  due to Ms H, it should  tell her how much it's taken off. It should 
also give Ms H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6159868