K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank PLC,  Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds),  
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2002  at the same  time as taking a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy at a meeting in a branch. 
The policy provided  cover  on Mr W only for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim it offered to repay  Mr and Mrs Ws 
monthly mortgage payment (around  £268  at the time of the mortgage offer)  plus £144 (being 
£3 for every £1000 of their initial £48,000  mortgage). The monthly policy  premium  was £24.
Mr W was employed  as a factory worker  and, according to the mortgage  application, had 
been with his employer for two months at the time of the sale.  From what  Mr and Mrs W 
have told us, Mr W was entitled  to no more than statutory sick pay and wasnt  entitled to 
redundancy pay. Mrs W wasnt employed  at the time. Mr and Mrs W say they had savings of 
£15,000 they couldve used to pay their mortgage if Mr W couldnt work.  Theyve  told us 
Mr W was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that Mr and Mrs W took a further advance  in 2005.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ws representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told 
Mr and Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs W and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-  term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN60432282The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs W arranged  in 2005 a further advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending  
became regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole mortgage  becoming an FCA 
regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code.
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN60432283The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
Ref: DRN60432284Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  application form 
had boxes to tick to say either I wish to apply  for or I do not wish to take  the PPI. So, it 
looks like the PPI was presented  as something  Mr and Mrs W had a choice about taking and 
separate from the mortgage itself. On Mr and Mrs Ws form, which  they signed to apply for 
the mortgage, the I wish to apply box is ticked. Mr and Mrs W also signed  a separate PPI 
application form to take the cover, which specified that cover would be on Mr W only.  Also,  
although Mr and Mrs W have said they didnt know they were paying for PPI, Mr W signed a 
separate direct debit  to pay for the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs W knew the policy  was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mr and Mrs W have  told us they cant recall  whether Lloyds gave advice or recommended  
the PPI. Lloyds says it did provide advice. With all this in mind, I think Lloyds  did give advice. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs W. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Ws financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application  for example their employment statuses 
and Mr Ws salary. But I dont think Lloyds did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable  and 
establish Mr W had a need for it. For example,  Ive nothing to show  that Lloyds asked  about  
Mr Ws work sickness or redundancy benefits.
The declaration signed by Mr and Mrs W on the PPI application, asked that they confirm  that 
they were working  at least 16 hours,  had been employed for at least  six months and werent 
aware of impending unemployment or hospitalisation or receiving treatment for conditions of 
a persistent or recurring nature. But I dont think Lloyds established that all this applied  in 
Mr and Mrs Ws case before giving them  the application to sign.  Mrs W wasnt  employed at 
the time,  for example.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr W was eligible  for the policy.
Ref: DRN60432285-Mr and Mrs W had a need  for the policy. If Mr W became unemployed or too sick to work 
even for a short period, Mr and Mrs W wouldve suffered a significant  loss of income. 
The policy benefit wouldve helped them manage  the consequences  of that at what  could  
be a difficult time if Mr W were  disabled or unemployed. Mr and Mrs W had savings - 
money they had chosen to keep aside  and not use to reduce what  they were borrowing. 
By helping them  meet their mortgage  payment and paying  a sum out on top, the policy  
benefit wouldve  helped  protect  their home  and helped keep their savings intact or free to 
meet other liabilities.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs W at the 
time they took it.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs W. There  
was nothing about the nature of Mr Ws employment  that wouldve  made  it difficult for 
Mr and Mrs W to claim. And Mr W hasnt told us of any pre-existing medical conditions 
that couldve affected his ability to claim. There were  also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-Unemployment wasnt covered if it started  in the first three  months of the policy or the 
first two months  of the mortgage if the policy started with the mortgage . Mr W wouldnt in 
any case be insured  for unemployment  until he had six months  continuous employment 
- hed been in his job for only two months when the PPI application was made. But the 
mortgage offer came  two months later and I think when the PPI was sold it was likely 
that by the time the mortgage started  Mr W would have been employed for longer  and be 
nearer to six months continuous service. In fact the mortgage started  over five months 
after Mr Ws employment start date on the mortgage application.  As well as the time 
Mr W was likely to have to wait before being insured for unemployment, there were other 
limits to the cover provided by the policy, including the any similar job  condition,  the 
fact the policy  would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim and 
the requirement that Mr W be disabled or unemployed for 60 days  before a claim could 
be made. But I think the policy still provided valuable cover  given:  
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances,  and in particular the significant loss of income  they 
could suffer if Mr W lost his job or was too sick to work,  the consequences this would 
have on their ability to meet mortgage  related costs while  preserving any savings 
they had but had chosen to keep rather than use for the mortgage. Also there is the 
fact that those savings  couldve helped provide an income during any period in which  
Mr and Mrs W couldnt yet claim the benefit   such as during the 60 day qualification 
period for disability  or unemployment; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr and Mrs Ws 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs W be unable to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Ref: DRN60432286Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr W was unable to work  through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs W 
would have taken  the policy without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much 
the premium might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs W Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ws. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs W about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Lloyds didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs W. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
Ref: DRN60432287While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr and Mrs W have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs W would have acted differently or whether they would have taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have taken  it and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs W had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised them there  was a suitable product 
they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event Mr W was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs W the exact premium at the point  they applied  for 
the policy. But I consider it more  likely  than not that Mr and Mrs W knew  they would have to 
pay something for the policy, and were made aware of the approximate costs.  If the cost 
when they came to pay for the policy  had been  significantly at odds with their expectations at 
the point of sale, its possible Mr and Mrs W mightve raised this with Lloyds or reconsidered  
their decision. Instead Mr and Mrs W paid for the policy for a number of years.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs W would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its likely they expected,  if 
they werent also told, that in the event of a claim the policy  would pay an amount sufficient 
to meet  their monthly mortgage payment.  So I think the policy at least met Mr and Mrs Ws 
likely expectations about that and, if anything, actually paid more  in the event of a claim than 
they would  have expected  - as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN60432288The policy excluded claims for disability during the first 24 months  if this was due to any 
health issue Mr W knew or should reasonably have  known about  at the policy  start or for 
which he had seen  or arranged to see a doctor  in the 12 months before the policy start; 
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  if Mr W wasnt  a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr W not only be unable  to do 
his own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
reasonably become  qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment,  nothing  was 
payable for unemployment  starting in, as outlined above, the first two or three  months 
and Mr W would be insured for unemployment  only after six months  continuous 
employment; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from taking the 
policy.
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr W was eligible for the policy and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs W should the insured risks have become a reality. I havent  seen  any evidence 
to suggest Mr W wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  he didnt have  
any pre-existing medical conditions, for example. There was also nothing  about the nature of 
his employment  that wouldve made it hard for Mr and Mrs W to claim  Mr W was in 
permanent employment.  So, I think Mr and Mrs W still had some  good reasons to take the 
policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs W would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs W had known they could only claim for disability if Mr W were not only unable 
to do his own job but also unable to do any similar  job the insurer  thought he was or might 
reasonably become qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability,  it might have 
played into their thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them  pause  for 
thought  although its possible they may not have been overly concerned given  that if Mr W 
was unable (through disability) to do his own job, the chances that he would be able to take 
up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs W that nothing would be payable for the first 60 days 
of disability or unemployment  or that unemployment starting in the first two or three months 
(as above) wouldnt be covered or that Mr W wouldnt be insured for unemployment until he 
had six months continuous  employment.  Lloyds also may not have told Mr and Mrs W that 
any claim they made would be limited  to a 12 month period. All this may have differed from 
what Mr and Mrs W expected and might  have hoped for.
Ref: DRN60432289But I take into account the loss of income Mr and Mrs W could suffer  if Mr W was too sick to 
work. I take into account also the savings they had available to make  payments during a 
period of unemployment or disability while waiting for benefits to became payable. I also take 
into account the longer period of continuous employment Mr W was likely to have achieved  
by the time the mortgage came into effect. 
With all this in mind, based on what I have I consider  it likely  Mr and Mrs W wouldve still 
thought a policy that, if Mr W suffered disability, paid the mortgage payments for up to 12 
months after 60 days and, after the first few months  and subject to six months continuous 
service, did the same  if he became unemployed, would be of benefit  to them.  I think  its likely 
they wouldve  thought the benefit would help them  manage the consequences if Mr W 
couldnt work in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy  allowed for multiple 
claims to be made and it could help reduce  Mr and Mrs Ws outgoings at a difficult  and 
uncertain time, making  it less likely their home would  be placed at risk and helping  to keep 
their savings intact or free for other purposes.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mr and Mrs W would still have taken the policy. It was suitable for them, sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that, in the 
circumstances it covered, would help them manage  the consequences  if Mr W were unable  
to work due to unemployment, accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs W would  have taken the policy  in any event notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption 
may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process were immaterial,  that the flaws  in 
this case were highly material and we have failed  to give proper  weight to the evidence   
including their own comments that they would  not have taken the policy.  I am not persuaded 
by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN604322810Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr and Mrs W would not have taken the policy,  
Im satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not they wouldve still taken the 
PPI had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude that Lloyds should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that would put them  in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2002  when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6043228