K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Advent Insurance PCC  Ltd declined her claim against her private 
medical insurance policy. 
background
In March 2013, Ms B was diagnosed with an anterior rectocele. That is a type of prolapse  
caused by weakened pelvic floor muscles.  Ms B says that she did pelvic  floor exercises,  
which enabled her to manage her symptoms. 
In November 2015, Ms B took out a private health  insurance policy  with Advent,  which  I 
understand she renewed annually. 
In January 2018, Ms Bs saw her GP. She believed that she was having  problems  with the 
anterior rectocele again. Ms B made  a claim against  her policy  in relation to treatment of a 
rectocele. Advent sought further information  from Ms Bs gynaecologist.  
In February 2018,  Advent declined Ms Bs claim. It said that Ms B had received medical 
advice about the onset  of a prolapse  in the five year period before the start of her policy.  It 
said the prolapse is a pre-existing condition or at the very least a related condition. So, its 
excluded from Ms Bs policy. 
Later in February  2018, Ms B had surgery. She didnt accept Advents position and in 
March 2018, her gynaecologist wrote to Ms Bs broker to say that Ms Bs symptoms were 
new and unrelated to gynaecological findings in 2013. Advent maintained  its position.
Ms B says its for her gynaecologist to ascertain whether her symptoms that led to the claim 
in 2018 were related to the problems she had in 2013. She wants Advent to deal with her 
claim. Ms B says that this matter has affected her greatly and that shes  spent considerable 
time dealing  with the matter. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. Theres  been a considerable amount 
of detailed exchanges. Having previously thought that a fair resolution was for Advent to pay 
50% of Ms Bs claim, the investigator now thinks that Advent acted fairly in declining Ms Bs 
claim, as it relates to a pre-existing condition. 
Ms B didnt agree with the investigators  latest view. She said that her consultant  
gynaecologist said that her condition in 2013 wasnt related  to her condition  in 2018. Ms B 
doesnt understand why non-medically trained individuals  are making decisions about her 
complaint. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, Ms Bs complaint was passed  to me, on 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63758232Ms B has questioned  why non-medically qualified individuals  are making  decisions about  her 
complaint. My role isnt to substitute the medical  judgement of any of the medical 
professionals involved  in the case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence 
Ive been provided  with to decide whether I think Advent handled  Ms Bs claim fairly and 
reasonably. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Advent has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably
The starting point  is Ms Bs policy, which says:
We do not pay for treatment  of any pre-existing condition or related condition .
The policy defines  pre-existing condition  as:
Any disease,  illness or injury for which:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment; or
you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the five years before the start date or 
moratorium date (if applicable) of your cover  under  this policy, whichever is the earlier .
 Related  condition  is defined as:
A symptom, illness  or injury which reasonable medical opinion considers is the 
cause of, or is arising from, the illness or injury that needs treatment.
The start date and moratorium date shown on Ms Bs certificate of insurance  are both 
10 November 2015. So, the relevant period in relation to pre-existing or related conditions  is 
November 2010  to November 2015.
Ms Bs policy also says:
If you do not receive medical advice or treatment for, take medication  for or experience 
symptoms of the pre-existing condition for a full, unbroken two-year  period after the 
moratorium date, cover for that pre-existing  condition may then be available. This is 
known as the moratorium period.
In this case, the moratorium  period  is November  2015 to November 2017.  That means that if 
Ms B didnt receive medical  advice  or treatment, take medication for or experience  
symptoms of the pre-existing condition between November 2015  and November 2017,  cover 
may be available.  
Ref: DRN63758233The central question  for me to decide  is whether Advent acted fairly and reasonably  in 
declining Ms Bs claim.  I think it did and Ill explain why.  
A letter in March 2013 from Ms Bs colorectal  surgeon to Ms Bs GP diagnoses  Ms B 
with an anterior rectocele. She was experiencing symptoms then and she received 
advice that shed be referred  to a gynaecologist  if the rectocele become  
symptomatic.  
Anterior rectocele  is a type of prolapse.  
In early January  2018, Ms Bs GP wrote known rectocele  diagnosed years ago 
but wanting to have  more  definitive treatment  pelvic  exercises has not helped  and 
becoming more uncomfortable   has apt with private  gynae this week would like letter    
agreed. [sic]
In the claim form dated  23 January 2018, Ms B said that her initial  signs  and 
symptoms first became  apparent  in March 2013. 
In a post consultation letter dated 12 January 2018, Ms Bs gynaecologist said that 
he was sorry to hear that Ms Bs prolapse had become worse recently. He diagnosed 
a vaginal prolapse, which is a complex one, comprising the bladder anteriorly and 
the back passage  posteriorly.
In a pre-surgery  letter dated 13 February  2018, Ms Bs gynaecologist said that her 
new symptoms had been brought about by the rectocele. 
Ive noted  the contents of Ms Bs gynaecologists letters  dated  13 March  2018 and 
his two letters dated 29 January 2019.  In summary, in those letters,  he says that the 
issue in 2018  wasnt related to the diagnosis in 2013. That contradicts  his earlier  
letters of 12 January 2018 and 13 February 2018, Ms Bs GP notes and Ms Bs claim 
form. I dont think its unreasonable for Advent to prefer  the earlier  evidence,  as that 
represents the GPs and gynaecologists thoughts  at the time of the treatment, rather  
than after the event. Advent also referred  the matter  to its medical  team for comment, 
which wed expect it to do. Advent provided  detailed reasons  why it doesnt agree  
with Ms Bs gynaecologists later correspondence, which  I think  are reasonable.  
The weight of the evidence suggests that the claim  in 2018 was for the same or a 
related condition in relation to which Ms B experienced symptoms and received 
advice in 2013. 
I dont think its likely  that Ms B was symptom free in the two year moratorium  period 
(November 2015 to November  2017).  Her GP notes  of early January 2018  refer to 
her symptoms  and say that the pelvic floor exercises hadnt helped,  which  suggests 
that Ms B continued to experience symptoms and do the recommended treatment.  I 
agree with Advent that its unlikely that Ms B went from symptom  free in November 
2017 to surgery  in February 2018.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Ms B but I dont think that Advent acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining her claim. 
Ref: DRN63758234my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6375823