K820x#14complaint
Mrs C on behalf of Mr C has complained  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Pic (RSA) 
unfairly declined a claim for subsidence under a landlord insurance policy.
background
Mr C lives abroad. He insured his tenanted property with RSA from February 2015 to 
February 2016.
Shortly after the policy expired Mr C made  a claim to his new insurer  for subsidence.  He 
said a builder  had drawn his attention  to cracks when quoting  to redecorate  the property  
on a change of tenant. His new insurer referred Mr C to RSA.
So Mr C made  a claim  to RSA for subsidence. He said the damage had happened 
before the policy with RSA had expired. Without  admitting liability  RSA instructed a loss 
adjuster to report on the damage.
RSA declined  the claim because its expert evidence indicated  that the damage  to the 
property was longstanding. It used the example  of the slope of the floors to evidence  
this- it said this was of such a degree, that it had to have happened over a long period 
of time. It also highlighted  that there was evidence of repairs  having  been done in the 
past, which would suggest that the movement had been known  about. It was satisfied 
that the previous  movement would have been  picked up in a professional survey. As 
such, it said it wasnt able to provide financial assistance with the claim as the damage 
had started  before the policy was taken out by Mr C.
RSA said if Mr C could  provide evidence from an independent  expert to show  it was 
wrong, it would  reconsider the claim. It advised Mr C to contact  his previous insurer if 
there was one.
Mrs C brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr C. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  
An extract  from my provisional findings  is set out below:
The terms  and conditions of the policy Mr C arranged confirm  that subsidence is covered 
by the policy. However, there are a number of exclusions. One of these exclusions is that 
"loss or damage which  originated before this Policy came into force" isnt covered.
RSA has said that the damage to Mr Cs property isnt covered because it started before 
the policy did. As such, the claim is defeated by the above  policy  exclusion. Subsidence 
by its nature  usually  causes damage gradually.  What I must decide is whether the 
damage is most likely  to have started before Mr Cs policy with RSA started. The only 
expert evidence to assist me in this comes  from RSAs loss adjuster. Of note he reported 
that the main  area of damage was the rear elevation and right hand  side party wall 
together with sloping floors inside the property.
He said there were three cracks  in the rear elevation wall and theyd  all been repaired 
previously. In particular  the edges  around a crack above the bedroom  window were 
rounded and weathered,  leading RSAs expert  to estimate that the crack had been  
present for five years.  There  were  cracks in the brickwork around the kitchen window 
Ref: DRN66370042where the brickwork  had been repainted  with a different  coloured mortar. The expert 
thought this movement was at least five years old.
Inside the property RSAs loss adjuster said a crack in the front bedroom  party  wall "has 
clearly been filled and decorated previously, possibly on several  occasions" and the 
crack in the rear bedroom party  wall had also been repaired in the past.
Lastly he thought  the floors  at the back of the property had been sloping for many 
years because the extent  of the slope  was more severe than would be expected from 
looking at the cracks.
RSA is entitled  to rely on its expert evidence. That concluded that its likely the damage 
at the very least started before the policy did and may have stopped before it too. As 
there isnt any comparable evidence from Mr C to cast doubt on that, I think RSA treated 
Mr C fairly and reasonably in rejecting his claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any comments  on my provisional decision,  I see no reason to change it. 
My provisional findings now form part of these  findings.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6637004