K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (when  it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank  is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a joint mortgage in 1998.  
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2003 when Mr and Mrs D were applying  for 
some further  borrowing  on their mortgage account.  The PPI protected their total mortgage 
repayments in the event  that Mr D couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs D mainly complain that they mustve  been tricked  into taking out PPI. They also 
told us that if theyd been told about  the extra cost for PPI they wouldve declined  it and they 
dont feel they needed this insurance.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs D to remember exactly what  was discussed 
so long ago when they took out the policy. This means that what they say about the way 
they were sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely  given the available information and the wider 
circumstances. 
On their loan application  form, Mr and Mrs D ticked in the box next to where  it said:
I wish to apply  for C&G  Payment Protection  Plus Cover. I have completed the relevant 
proposal form and am returning it with this application
Payment Protection  Plus Cover is what C&G called its PPI. Mr and Mrs D filled in their 
details and they both signed  a separate application  form in order  to take out this cover  for 
Mr D. 
Ref: DRN60744252Ive taken into account their comments, including what theyve said about  how they were 
sold the PPI. But Mr and Mrs D didnt  take out PPI when their mortgage started  their 
mortgage had already  been running  for some  years without PPI. And the loan paperwork Ive 
seen showed  that it was up to Mr and Mrs D to say if they wanted to take out PPI with their 
new borrowing. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment  repayable over a substantial  number of 
years. Mr and Mrs D were borrowing additional money and increasing  the overall amount of 
their outstanding mortgage.  Mr and Mrs Ds home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage  
payments werent  kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and significantly better  
protection than they had otherwise. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs D mightve felt PPI was 
useful to have   even if they didnt choose  to take it out at the start of their mortgage.  
I can completely understand if theyve forgotten these details as this happened  such  a long 
time ago. But, based on the information  Ive seen,  I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D decided  
they wanted the benefits that PPI offered when they increased their mortgage  borrowing. 
And, on balance, I find that they chose to buy the policy knowing it was up to them  to say if 
they wanted to take it out.
Lloyds says it wouldve  advised Mr and Mrs D to have PPI. And it looks  to me like that 
recommendation was suitable based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time.  I think its likely  that they wouldve found  it hard to afford to keep up the monthly  
mortgage repayments without Mr Ds income coming  into the household as he was 
substantially the main earner at the time.  
Ive taken into account Mr Ds comments,  including what hes told us about his sick pay. But 
the policy wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay for up to 12 months per claim.  This 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr and Mrs D faced extra  
costs as a result of Mr D being  sick or disabled.
And the PPI wouldve  also paid out if Mr D lost his job unexpectedly and he was out of work. 
As no job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely  I think this couldve been  useful cover 
for Mr and Mrs D to have. 
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
The monthly benefit wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage repayments and also paid 
some extra to help them with their household bills and other  costs.  And Mr D couldve made 
multiple claims on the policy if hed needed to. So the policy  gave Mr and Mrs D long term 
protection for their mortgage. I think that couldve been an important consideration for them 
at the time. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr D was affected  by 
any of the usual conditions limiting the policys main benefits. So, I dont think having more  
information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected Mr and Mrs Ds decision to 
take it out.
Ref: DRN60744253I dont know if Mr and Mrs D knew how much PPI would cost them  when they took it out. But 
they set up payment arrangements  with their bank when they applied for the policy   so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover and were  happy to pay for it at the time. It seems  to 
have been affordable for them when they took it out. 
Looked at overall, its possible there may have been  some failings in the way this policy  was 
sold. But I think Mr and Mrs D still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy  for Mr D even if theyd 
been better informed  as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont 
think better information wouldve put them off buying  PPI given the benefits  it offered them.
So I dont  find that Mr and Mrs D have  lost out as a result of anything  that Lloyds mightve 
done wrong. This means  that it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6074425