K820x#14complaint
Mr E is represented in this matter  by his daughters Ms E and Ms G who hold his Power  of 
Attorney (POA).  They  complain about  how Covea Insurance  plc handled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.  They want the claim dealt with, the policy  cancelled  from the date of 
the total loss of Mr Es car, a refund of premiums taken since that date and £150  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.
background
Mr E had an accident and Ms E called  Covea to make a claim. This was registered, but 
Covea then asked  for a full copy of the POA to progress the claim. Ms E said she spoke to a 
manager who told her that the policy should be cancelled from the date of the loss and 
premiums taken since then refunded. She sent in photos of some of the POA. But Covea 
then said the person  Ms E spoke to shouldnt have agreed to take action. It said it wouldnt 
do anything without the full and readable POA. Ms E declined to send  this as she thought  
Covea was being obstructive. She said she hadnt  needed to do this for other organisations. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  it was 
reasonable for Covea to request a full and legible copy of the POA to be validated by its 
solicitors before it progressed the claim.  He heard a call where  the Office  of the Public  
Guardian (OPG) had told Covea this. He thought Covea  had caused  Ms E frustration by 
giving the incorrect  information. But he didnt think it needed to do anything as we cant 
award compensation for third parties bringing complaints. 
Ms E and Ms G replied that Covea  should  deal with their father directly. They thought  Covea 
should accept  the extract from the POA that our service had accepted.  They wanted the 
claim dealt  with so their father could replace his car. And they wanted him compensated for 
the length of time its taken to settle  the claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its now over a year since the accident. I was sorry to hear of Mr Es distress about the 
length of time its taking  to settle his claim.  I can see that Ms E says he needs a car to meet 
appointments and for shopping. Ms E said hes relying on the settlement to replace his car. 
But Covea said it cant progress the claim at present.  Covea said its solicitors required the 
whole of the POA  for validation. Ms E sent it photographs of parts of the POA but Covea 
wasnt satisfied with these. The investigator  sent it the clear extract  Ms E sent our service. 
But Covea said this wasnt satisfactory  and it wanted a copy of the full POA. 
The investigator has already explained that its for Covea to decide  on its systems and 
processes. This would include what it needs to validate a claim. I can appreciate  Ms Es 
frustration. But this it isnt something that this service would normally interfere with as it is a 
legitimate exercise  of its commercial judgement. 
Ref: DRN62557182Ms E sent us a letter from the OPG  explaining  what Covea needed to do to verify a POA. 
But I can see from the OPG website that it advises that the whole of the POA  should be 
obtained to ensure validity. So I cant say its unreasonable  for Covea to request the full copy  
of the POA in order to progress the claim. 
Without this, Covea hasnt been able to identify that Ms E and Ms G are able to act on behalf 
of Mr E. I can see that Covea acted  upon Ms Es initial  notification  of the claim. But as she 
told Covea that Mr E was then in hospital, I think this was reasonable. 
Ms E has raised a number of concerns about the level of service provided by Covea and 
inconsistencies in its communications.  Ms E said she wanted Covea punished for the 
inconsistent and poor service she said itd provided. But its not our role to punish  
businesses. Our role is to provide an impartial service to try and resolve complaints brought  
by consumers against businesses. 
So, I think Covea is entitled to ask for a full copy of the POA  in order to validate the claim. As 
its not received  this, I cant  say its responsible for the delay  in settling the claim.  And as it 
hasnt received sufficient  authorisation to enable Ms E and Ms G to act for Mr E, then I cant  
say that it needs  to respond to their service concerns.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6255718