K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains the merchant terminal supplied  by Handepay Ltd. didnt work, so thinks the 
agreement should  be void  and he shouldnt have to pay any fees.
Background
In March 2016 Mr K signed up to an agreement with Handepay. This was to provide a 
merchant terminal to take card payments for Mr Ks business.
Mr K had a number of problems getting  the terminal set up  so said he considered the 
contract void. Because Handepay didnt agree with this, Mr K raised a complaint.
In their response Handepay  said their engineer visited  Mr Ks place of work, to set up the 
terminal. They said the terminal was configured  to work through his broadband connection  
but that Mr K insisted  hed asked for one to be set up by his phone  line. Handepay said they 
listened back to the call, and that showed he did ask for it to be done through his broadband, 
not his phone line as hed told the engineer. But as a gesture  of goodwill they agreed to 
swap the installation  to a phone line at no cost to him  waiving the fees normally  associated  
with this.
Handepay said the engineer went back again to try the installation a second time, but 
problems were encountered when the terminal  was installed on the phone  line. It was a 
shared phone line and had some  noise on it as a result of multiple  devices. They said the 
engineer tested it with just the terminal  and it was fine. The engineer suggested a number 
of options to make this work, but they said Mr K didnt  accept  these. Mr K then asked about 
two other  kinds of terminals but wasnt happy to pay the swap fees associated with this.
Handepay record that they then didnt hear from Mr K until December  2018   asking for a 
refund to be paid.  Handepay didnt agree to do this, because they provided two working  
terminals to him, but he didnt accept them.
Mr K said in response to all of this that the terminal failed to work  on multiple occasions, and 
as this was going on for about  three months,  he was under pressure to get a working 
terminal. He says he gave  up hope  of trying  to get this matter resolved.
So, unhappy  with this Mr K asked us to look into things. Our investigator did so, and 
ultimately felt Handepay had done all they should, so he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K 
didnt agree with this, so the complaints  been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ks agreement say that Handepay  will use reasonable  
endeavours to deliver the terminal to him. And that hell be responsible for all payments due 
in respect of the terminals once delivered.
Mr K and Handepay have both said that engineers visited Mr Ks premises in an attempt to 
install the terminals.
Ref: DRN65113562So its not in dispute that Handepay have fulfilled  their basic obligation, to provide a terminal  
to him.
But I must also consider  whether Handepay have made reasonable attempts to provide Mr K 
with a working terminal. I dont think it could be considered  fair or reasonable, if theyve 
provided him with a terminal  that couldnt  work  and offered no solutions  for these issues,  if 
thats part of the service  theyre providing  to him.
Looking at all the facts of this case,  I cant know for certain exactly  whats happened.  I wasnt 
present at the time of the installation attempts. So, in situations like these I need to decide a 
case on what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
The notes recorded  by Handepay show Mr K asked for a terminal  connected to his 
broadband, but then at the point of installation   one connected to his phone  line. Ive not 
seen anything to suggest the terminal delivered  to Mr K wasnt  the device he agreed to 
during his conversation with Handepay  a terminal to be used through the broadband,  not 
the phone  line. Mr K seemingly changed his mind about the terminal,  and instead asked for 
one that worked  through the phone line.
From what  Ive seen Handepay  agreed  to this swap for free  when they were entitled to 
charge him for this. So, I think theyve  treated  him fairly here.
And at the point  of the second attempt to install a terminal that runs through  a phone line, the 
engineer has recorded  there was noise on the line. Ive seen nothing to suggest this isnt 
true. But the notes show when the engineer suggested ways  of resolving this issue  Mr K 
then rejected this terminal also. He then asked about two other terminals  which  Handepay 
said theyd potentially have to charge him for  which  Mr K didnt agree to.
The terms and conditions  say Handepay wont be liable to Mr K if they cant  carry out their 
responsibilities under this agreement if its something outside of their control.  Based on what  
Ive seen, I think its more  likely  than not Handepay  made reasonable attempts to install  the 
terminal for Mr K  and the reason it didnt end up being installed was outside of their 
control.
So, Im satisfied Handepay made reasonable attempts  to provide Mr K with a working  
terminal.
Ive also considered what happened  when  Mr K said he wanted the contract with Handepay 
terminated. 
The first installation was due to take place around  16 March 2016, and Ive seen an email 
from Mr K, to Handepay, on 29 April 2016  asking for the contract to be cancelled. Handepay 
replied on 6 May 2016, and said as the contract  is now live, hes responsible  for any costs 
incurred.
At this point, it seems  that Mr K didnt  do anything further until December 2018   over two 
and a half years later  its unclear why. But I can see that Handepay  told Mr K hed be 
responsible for the costs. So, Im satisfied they made him aware  of this also.
Ref: DRN65113563Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied Handepay provided Mr K with the terminals he 
asked for, supported  him in trying to get them to work  and made him aware of his 
responsibilities. Because of this, I wont be holding  them responsible  for any costs Mr K has 
incurred.
My final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6511356