K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Four Seasons Travel  Insurance mis-sold her a travel  insurance policy.  
background
In September  2016 Mr G got in touch  with Four Seasons to arrange  travel  insurance for 
Mrs G for a cruise they were going on. Mr G recalls completing a pro-forma at the time in 
which he disclosed information  about  medical  issues that affected Mrs G. 
Unfortunately while  on the cruise  Mrs G became unwell and was hospitalised.  Her insurer 
turned down the claim she made.  That was in part because it said she hadnt provided  
information about her pre-existing medical  conditions before taking out cover and it wouldnt 
have offered cover if it had known about  these.  
Mr G believes  that was because Four Seasons didnt pass on information about Mrs Gs 
medical conditions  to the insurer. Four Seasons says Mr G did provide information about  this 
but in line with its normal practice it advised  him to call the screening helpline provided by 
the insurer. Its provided an email it sent to Mrs G in which it said as agreed your pre-
existing medical conditions are not covered. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Four Seasons  made  it clear  pre-
existing conditions wouldnt  be covered and that Mrs G should call the medical screening 
line if she wanted to discuss this. Mr G reiterated  that he did provide information  about her 
medical conditions  to Four Seasons but it didnt pass  that on. 
We asked Mr G whether he had any further comments  on the email which said pre-existing 
medical conditions  werent covered. Mr G said he didnt receive this. So I need to reach  a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about the basis on which this policy was sold  so whether or not Four 
Seasons advised Mrs G to take it out. The information from the time of sale is very limited 
but I note when Four Seasons  sent the policy schedule to Mrs G in September  2016 it said 
please  check all the information, including  any medical declaration, to ensure that the policy  
meets your requirements. 
That doesnt  suggest this was an advised  sale and Ive not seen other evidence to indicate  it 
was. So, on balance I think  its likely the policy  was sold on an information only basis.  Under 
the relevant rules that means  Four Seasons didnt have to ensure the policy was suitable  for 
Mrs G but did have  to take reasonable steps  to ensure she was provided with clear, fair and 
not misleading information  about  it. That included telling her about any significant  exclusions 
and limitations of the policy. 
Ref: DRN69033252Given the limited information from the time of sale its hard for me to know  exactly  what was 
said. The insurer of the policy  has provided details of questions  that should  have been asked 
as part of an online process. But that doesnt match with a script  Four Seasons  has provided 
or with what  it says about asking a consumer to call the insurers  medical  screening  line. 
That does suggest  Four Seasons may not have followed the process laid down by the 
insurer in this case. 
But even if Four Seasons got that wrong  I dont think Mrs G has lost out as a result.  The 
policy doesnt cover  her pre-existing medical conditions.  I think thats a significant  exclusion  
which should have  been drawn  to her attention by Four Seasons. But the evidence  suggests 
it was. I say that because  after Mr G discussed  the policy with Four Seasons  it emailed Mr 
and Mrs G and said just to say as agreed  your pre-existing medical conditions are not 
covered.  I appreciate Mr G doesnt  recall  receiving that email  but as it was sent following 
the discussion he had with Four Seasons I think its likely to reflect what was said. 
Mr G says Four Seasons didnt pass on information about those conditions  to the insurer. 
And that doesnt  seem to be in dispute.  But I dont think  Four Seasons needed to do that in 
this case. It had drawn Mrs Gs attention to the fact the policy wouldnt cover her pre-existing 
conditions. And it says it advised  her to contact the insurers medical  screening  line if she did 
want cover  for these. The script its provided about its sales process  supports that. It also 
says that in a more  recent conversation with Mr G he couldnt remember  if he had called the 
medical advice line. 
So while its not clear  Four Seasons followed the sales process laid down  by the insurer the 
evidence suggests  it explained pre-existing medical conditions  werent  covered under  the 
policy. And Mrs G decided to go ahead with the policy on that basis. As a result  I dont think 
shes lost out on cover she would otherwise have had because of something Four Seasons  
got wrong. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr G (on behalf  of Mrs G) to accept or reject my decision before 
28 September 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6903325