K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr D says Capital  One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. Mr D took out the PPI policy during a telephone call a few days after he 
applied for the credit  card.  From what I know of Capital Ones process around that time,  I 
think its more likely  it wouldve explained the PPI was optional  and gained Mr Ds 
consent before applying  it to his credit card.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr D got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Mr D has said he had no sick pay available to him at the time of the sale.  And the policy 
could have covered  him for up to 12 months  per claim if he was made redundant, so I 
think he could have  found it useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
Ref: DRN64507872But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6450787