K820x#14complaint
Miss R says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss R bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a loan. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Rs complaint because:
I think its likely that Lloyds made Miss R aware  the PPI was optional and that she chose  
to take it out. Miss R says she didnt know shed got the PPI, and she wouldnt have 
agreed to buy it. Ive noted  everything Miss R has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Miss R and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events  took place twenty 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Miss Rs loan agreement, which  isnt surprising  given the 
amount of time thats passed since she arranged the borrowing. But Lloyds has provided 
a sample of the loan documentation  that was in use when Miss R took out her loan. The 
PPI is listed on the document as Optional Loan  Repayment Protection. The loan 
agreement also included  a section about PPI which  was headed Optional Loan 
Repayment Protection. Miss R wouldve had to tick a Yes or No box to show  whether 
or not she wanted  the cover.
So from what Ive seen,  on balance  I think Lloyds wouldve made  Miss R aware she had 
a choice about buying the PPI. Although I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed  
when the loan was arranged, its equally likely that it was  although I can understand 
why Miss R may no longer remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss R, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Miss R says she was entitled  
to sick pay from her employer, but the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to her 
employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer.
 
Ref: DRN62161462I think Lloyds could  have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Miss R wouldve still bought it. Thats because I think its unlikely that Lloyds 
set out how much  interest Miss R would be paying on the amount she was borrowing for 
the PPI. But that interest was about  £20. As this was a relatively small amount, I dont  
think having details  about the interest  payable on the loan wouldve altered Miss Rs 
decision to buy the PPI.
Miss R would have received a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the 
policy early.  I dont  know if Lloyds thought  about this when it recommended the policy  or 
explained the situation clearly  to Miss R. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest she thought  
she would repay the loan early.  So I dont think [this made  the policy  unsuitable or better 
information about this wouldve stopped her buying it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Miss R would have been affected by any of these.
When I take all of these  points into account,  overall Im not persuaded that the policy was 
mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6216146