K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Express Finance (Bromley) Limited trading as Payday Express  was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Mr B took out seven  loans with Payday Express between July 2012 and May 2014. Mr B has 
instructed a third party company to bring  this complaint on his behalf but I will refer to Mr B 
throughout the complaint.  Mr B complains that during the time that the loans were given to 
him by Payday  Express he was insolvent  and the subject of a Trust Deed.  
Before this service became involved, Payday Express  told Mr B that it thought  it had done 
enough to assess  affordability before agreeing the loans. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Bs complaint be upheld in part. She didnt think that 
Payday Expresss checks were proportionate  before agreeing  loans two to six. The 
adjudicator thought that before agreeing these loans, Payday Express should have asked 
Mr B about  his net monthly income  and living costs, including any regular credit  
commitments and for loans five and six it shouldve carried out a comprehensive  review  of 
Mr Bs finances to check he could afford the repayments. 
The adjudicator asked Mr Bs representatives  for some more  information about Mr Bs 
situation to see what better checks would have  shown.  Unfortunately Mr Bs representatives 
didnt provide any further information so the adjudicator wasnt able to say that better checks  
would have made any difference to the decision to lend loans two to four. However, the 
adjudicator thought that given Mr Bs borrowing pattern it was clear that loans five and six 
were unsustainable  and his borrowing suggested an overreliance on short term credit which 
was harmful. As there was a gap before Mr B took out loan seven the adjudicator considered  
that the checks were  enough for this loan as it was essentially  a new chain of lending.
The business agreed with the adjudicators  view and offered to refund all interest and 
charges on loans five and six and remove them from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr Bs representatives didnt reply to the adjudicators view and didnt  respond  to the offer 
made by the business so I dont know whether he agrees with the recommendation or what  
he thinks is wrong with the adjudicators view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Payday Express was required to carry out checks before agreeing  to lend to make sure     
Mr B was able to repay each loan. These checks had to be proportionate to things such as 
the amount of the loan,  the repayments and any lending  history. But there  wasnt a set list of 
checks Payday Express had to carry out.
Even if I decide that the checks werent  adequate;  this isnt enough  for me to uphold the 
complaint. I would also need to conclude that proportionate  checks wouldve shown Payday 
Express that Mr B might  struggle to repay the loans in a sustainable way.
Ref: DRN66183422loan one
As this was early on in Mr Bs borrowing history with Payday Express, I think  a proportionate  
check wouldve involved asking Mr B for details of his income. The loan repayment  was 
£129 which was a small proportion of Mr Bs declared income of £1700  so I think  asking for 
his income was enough for this loan.  Payday  Express didnt have to do anything more  such 
as carrying out a credit check or asking for a detailed breakdown  of living  costs  and regular 
credit commitments.
As Payday Express only asked about  Mr Bs income and there was no reason  to doubt what 
he said from any of the other information  available I cant say the business was wrong to 
give Mr B this loan.
Loans two to four
 
At the point of loan 2 I think that Payday Express should  have asked about  Mr Bs outgoings 
to make sure he could afford the repayments given that this loan was taken out shortly after 
the first loan and for an increased amount.  Mr B applied  to defer loan 2 and applied for loan 
3 shortly after loan 2 was paid and again the checks shouldve  included asking Mr B about 
his outgoings.  The same applied for loan 4.
I cant say what would  have happened  if Payday Express had asked these questions as Mr 
B hasnt  provided  details  of his income  and expenditure  at the time. He says that he was the 
subject of a Trust Deed and that all his surplus  income was going  to the Trustee but he 
hasnt provided  any evidence about  this so I cant say that the repayments  were 
unaffordable and that Payday Express wouldve discovered this if it had asked about his 
income. So I cant say that Payday Express was wrong to give Mr B these loans.
Loans five and six
At the point of loan 5 I think Mr Bs borrowing  history  alone was enough to suggest that it 
was no longer safe to rely on what Mr B was saying about his finances. By this point Mr B 
had been borrowing consecutively  and this suggested reliance on short term credit and an 
inability to meet repayments without borrowing again. I think  that Payday Express should 
have realised that loans 5 and 6 were unsustainable  given Mr Bs borrowing and repayment  
history. I dont think the business should have given Mr B these loans. 
Loan seven
Mr B took out loan 7 a year after loan 6 was repaid. I think it would be fair for the business  to 
conclude that Mr Bs financial situation  had improved and so it was reasonable to treat this 
as a new chain  of lending and so, like the adjudicator, I think the checks  for this loan went  far 
enough.
putting things right
I think Payday Express should  put things right. So for loans five and six Payday Express 
should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr B on the loans;
Ref: DRN66183423Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove the information  recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Payday Express to take off tax from this interest.  It must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Express Finance (Bromley) 
Limited trading  as Payday  Express  to put things  right as outlined  in the above bullet points.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6618342