K820x#14complaint
Mr Es complaint is about the way Crowdcube  Capital Limited presented an investment
opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. He feels information about the company he
invested in was inaccurate and Crowdcube  should  have  checked this.
background
Crowdcube is an equity-based  crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of promotional material. Prospective investors can view information
about a company and the details of the investment in pitches on the platform  before deciding
whether to invest.
Mr E committed to investing £1,000 in Company A via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform
in July 2018. The payment was taken in August 2018, with the shares  being  issued to Mr E
in September  2018. But by December 2018, Company A went into administration which
meant Mr E lost his money.
Mr E complained to Crowdcube saying the information included in Company As pitch  was
misleading. He says the pitch mentioned  Company A had completed a merger which
attracted additional investment. But after Company A went into administration,  its chief
executive officer (CEO)  confirmed the merger  hadnt completed at the time of the pitch  and
it never received  these  additional funds. Mr E says Crowdcube didnt do enough to check
whether the merger had in fact completed.
Mr E has also raised some concerns about the emails hed received after the fundraising
round had closed.  He says the first of these confirmed his investment would proceed and be
legally binding unless  he contacted Crowdcube  before the deadline expired. However, once
it had expired, he received another email explaining  the valuation of Company A been
reduced. Mr E says hed agreed  to what was said in the first email  and this had become
legally binding before  the second email was sent. He said Crowdcube mislead investors  by 
sending two nearly identical emails and that it shouldnt have allowed the investment to go 
ahead as it knew, or ought  to have known, that Company A was either already
insolvent, or soon  likely to be.
Crowdcube didnt  agree that the pitch was inaccurate or misleading. It said any claims made
on Company As pitch were subject to its standard due diligence checks and were verified
with evidence before being approved. It also said that, as set out in the legal review
document, the contract  to invest  was conditional on certain matters occurring such  as
Company As board and shareholders passing  certain resolutions. Crowdcubes investor
terms set out that if there are conditions included in the legal review then investments are
subject to and conditional on those conditions being satisfied. The investors terms also state
that if a condition cannot be satisfied  then Crowdcube may re-circulate the cooling off email
giving an explanation of the failed condition and allowing the investors  a further  opportunity
to withdraw  this is what it did by way of its second email  to Mr E.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said:
Crowdcube needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the information displayed  on 
its platform was clear, fair and not misleading.
According to the Companies House record the merger did take place prior to the 
pitch going live.
Ref: DRN65087342Whilst Crowdcubes terms or due diligence charter didnt suggest or outline specific  
checks that it would carry out to validate  financials within  the pitch, it still shouldve 
taken reasonable  steps to ensure the financial information as clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
Having reviewed the information Crowdcube gathered, the investigator  thought  it had 
fulfilled its obligations in this respect and it was reasonable for Crowdcube to rely on 
the evidence of the merger, including the additional  investment  it attracted.
The second cooling off email to investors  explained the reasons for the change  in 
valuation and there was no evidence of Mr E contacting Crowdcube or Company A to 
discuss this before he proceeded with his investment.
Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.  He said:
The secured  funding was not forthcoming  and Crowdcube shouldve checked this.
The merger hadnt completed and so the pitch was misleading.
Crowdcube unilaterally changed  the terms of the investment following the original 
cooling off period. This meant there was a conflict of interest  as Crowdcube benefited 
out of seeing the funding round complete. 
Our investigator considered Mr Es points  further,  but it didnt change her opinion.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator. I understand this will come as a
disappointment to Mr E, but Ill explain my reasons why.
I think there are two potential questions  that I need  to consider in order to fairly  and
reasonably determine Mr Es complaint.  These are:
Was Crowdcubes promotional material about  Company A presented  as clear, fair 
and not misleading information?
Was it fair for Crowdcube to allow Mr Es investment  to proceed despite the change 
in Company As valuation?
Before Im able to answer these questions, Ive considered Crowdcubes role and
relationship it has with investors, as well the regulatory and legal framework involved.
Crowdcubes role and relationship with its investors 
I can only consider the actions of Crowdcube  and in doing so its important to understand the
role and relationship  it has with Mr E as an investor.
Crowdcubes investor terms sets out the terms and conditions forming the basis of this
relationship. These explain:
8.2. The Investor  acknowledges  that Crowdcube  approves each Pitch  as a financial
promotion but does not provide  advice or any form of recommendation regarding the
suitability or quality of the Investment
Ref: DRN650873438.3. The Investor acknowledges and accepts  that the Website includes a forum 
which is an integral  part of an Investees Pitch which is intended as a service  to 
Investees to put them  in contact with Investors, and thus that Crowdcubes 
investigation of the Investees and thecontent of their Pitches  is limited,  and 
accordingly Crowdcube makes no warranty or representation and assumes no 
liability in respect of the Investees or the content of their Pitches. The Investor must 
make his/her own assessment of the viability,  accuracy and prospects of the 
Investees, their Pitches, and any relevant investment propositions  and should  consult  
his/her professional  advisers should  he/she  require any assistance in making  such 
an assessment or should the Investor  require any services whatsoever in connection 
with Crowdcube. In particular, the attention of the Investors is drawn to the 
disclaimer, risk warning  and regulatory  notice on each Pitch.
Its clear from the investor terms that Crowdcube  provides potential investors with different
investment opportunities by way of pitches, but importantly, it gives no advice or
recommendations to its investors. Ultimately, the decision to invest is made at the investors
own risk and Crowdcube encourages them to do their own research. This is also explained
in Crowdcubes  due diligence charter:
Crowdcube does not endorse any of the businesses raising finance on the platform, 
nor do we provide  investment advice of any description, so before deciding to invest 
we strongly encourage all Crowdcube members to undertake their own research  and 
if there is uncertainty, to receive independent advice before investing.
Crowdcube also has risk warnings on its platform to ensure  investors are made aware of the
risks involved in investing via crowdfunding. The following  risk warning was provided on
Crowdcubes platform at the time Mr E invested in Company A:
Investing in start-ups and early stage businesses  involves  risks,  including illiquidity, 
lack of dividends,  loss of investment and dilution, and it should be done only as part 
of a diversified portfolio.
This also included  a link to read Crowdcubes full risk warning which provided more detail of
the risks involved.
Regulatory and legal framework
While Ive considered  the investor terms which say Crowdcubes investigation is limited  and
that it doesnt endorse any pitches, Ive also taken into account the wider obligations on
Crowdcube.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms  are
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook  of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  1.1.1G, says The Principles apply  in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles  here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must  conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Ref: DRN65087344PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs of its clients,  
and communicate  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook  (COBS). And the most relevant obligations  here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly,  fairly  and professionally in accordance
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As promotional material,  Crowdcube  needed  to satisfy itself
that the material itself was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied
that by approving the promotion  and allowing its customers to invest in Company  A, it would
be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature  of the claims or assertions
made in the promotional material itself,  Crowdcube  would need  to carry out reasonable
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what  they might  be in any given
case, is something which is very much left to each provider  to determine and would vary
according to the particular  circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt  the regulators intention  to
provide a set of tick boxes which needed  to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind  that the FCA said the following  in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely  that a platform could argue that it has met its 
obligations under  Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests 
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence  to satisfy itself on 
the essential information on which any communication  or promotion  is based.
Whilst I appreciate Mr E had invested  prior to the publication of the consultation  paper  and
guidance, I still feel it is relevant as it provides  clarity as to the interpretation and application
of the existing rules  and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the time.
Ive also considered these relevant rules and regulations when reaching my decision.
Was Crowdcubes promotional material about  Company A presented  as clear, fair and not
misleading information?
The main  point of contention regarding the pitch is the merger.  The pitch  stated that:
The merger deal, completed in May 2018,  attracted an additional £6m from existing
shareholders plus £9m in media  for equity across  Sky and Channel  5, and a multi-
million pound media spend with Channel 4 in return for a stake in the combined 
business.
Ref: DRN65087345As Ive set out above, Ive considered the regulatory obligation on Crowdcube to conduct its
business with due skill, care and diligence,  as well as to ensure  that a communication or a
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading.  Ive also considered  the FCAs guidance
on approving financial  promotions from November 2019 which  explained that firms  should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion 
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised  person. The 
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence  needed  to be able confirm  that a 
promotion is fair, clear  and not misleading  will vary from case-to-case and will 
depend on the form and content of the promotion.  When assessing whether a 
promotion is fair, clear  and not misleading,  a firm may need to consider  (among  other 
things):
The authenticity  of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
As such,  Crowdcubes  due diligence needed  to be sufficient enough to satisfy  itself that the
claims made  in Company  As pitch were  authentic.
As part of its due diligence, Crowdcube  said it checked Companies  House records  which
confirmed the merger had completed prior to promoting the investment. It also said there
were several news articles available at that time which cited  the completed  merger.
Crowdcube explains in its due diligence charter that it, relies on third-party tools to conduct
some due diligence. So I think it was fair and reasonable for Crowdcube to use these
sources to confirm the merger had completed.
Crowdcube sent Mr E a second cooling off email  around mid-August 2018  after the
fundraising round had closed. This gave Mr E an opportunity  to withdraw his investment.
Having reviewed this email, it stated the following:
As we are in a transition phase following our recent  merger with [], which  has not 
yet been fully integrated, and acknowledging the future funding  the business  will 
require which we do not wish to disadvantage you on should this be raised at a lower  
price..
I think it is clear  from the above description, which was sent prior to Mr Es investment going
through, that the full integration of the companies had not yet completed. So overall,
Mr E was put on notice  before he invested that the companies had not yet fully integrated.
And if he no longer  wished to proceed  with his investment he could have  withdrawn.  But I
havent seen any evidence of Mr E withdrawing  his investment and as such his investment
went ahead.
Turning to Company  As financial information included in the pitch. A careful distinction
needs to be made between  the overall  financial  position of Company A and the statements
made in the pitch  which relate to funding. Crowdcube explains in its due diligence charter
that it doesnt review  the ongoing funding requirements of companies that raise investment
through the platform:
The following information,  unless specifically mentioned in the pitch, is not always  
reviewed as part of our standard due diligence,  so investors should  assume  that the 
following have not been checked:
cash position and cash burn of the company;
Ref: DRN65087346The pitch  didnt include any information about Company As cash position or cash burn and
as such, Im not persuaded  Crowdcube was under  any obligation to ensure Company A was
profitable. So if the absence of this information caused Mr E any concerns, I would have
expected him to have conducted his own enquiries before proceeding with the investment.
Crowdcube did make it clear in its risk warnings that investing in start-ups and early  stage
businesses involves risk, and part of that risk is businesses involved are often those
which are unable to get bank  or traditional  forms of funding and so are likely to be in a
precarious financial position  on the whole.
The pitch  did, however,  mention  existing investments in advertising, as well other sources  of
funding. So Crowdcube needed to ensure this information was fair, clear and not misleading.
Crowdcube explained that the £9 million in equity  for media and the additional multi-million
pound media spend  was in relation to potential advertising Company A would benefit  from.
But as it went into administration soon  after the fundraising round closed it was unable  to
use this.
Crowdcube also provided evidence showing Company A had benefitted  from £5.5 million  of
investment prior to the promotion. This was in the form of convertible loan notes and
debentures from existing  shareholders, as well as a £500,000 loan facility from Company As
bank. Whilst I appreciate the pitch didnt make this distinction, on balance, I dont think  it
would have affected Mr Es decision to invest. I say this as it represented only a small
amount of the overall finances and ultimately, this money was available to the company
albeit by means of a loan facility from a bank  rather than through shareholder investment. Its
also important to point  out this information was included in the legal review document
Crowdcube emailed to Mr E in July 2018.  Therefore, if he had concerns about this, I would
have expected him to have raised  this with Crowdcube before investing.
As such,  Im satisfied Crowdcube met its requirements when promoting the investment
opportunity.
Was it fair for Crowdcube to allow Mr Es investment to proceed despite the change in 
Company As valuation?
Crowdcube sent Mr E an email in July 2018  confirming  the fundraising round had closed and
giving him an opportunity  to review his investment before  proceeding. This email asked Mr E
to review several documents, including Company As articles of association  and a legal
review document.  It gave  Mr E a deadline  of early August  2018  for him to let Crowdcube
know if he didnt want to proceed with his investment and failure  to do so would result in it
become legally binding.
Mr E didnt contact Crowdcube and so once the deadline passed,  he believed  his investment
had proceeded  and had become  legally binding. However, Crowdcube then sent Mr E
another email  around mid-August 2018.  This email set out that since  the fundraising round
had closed, Company  As valuation had reduced  from £104,000,000 to £51,800,000 and as
a result Mr E would receive twice as many  shares. This email also included an updated legal
review document  to reflect  these changes. A new deadline was given and as Mr E didnt
contact Crowdcube his investment proceeded after this date.
Mr E feels  strongly about Crowdcube unfairly allowing the investment to proceed  when there
had been a material change in facts  from the original promotional material.  He also feels
strongly that after the deadline date to the first email  had passed, his investment became
Ref: DRN65087347legally binding in line with that email  and Crowdcube should not be able to alter this.
Crowdcubes investor terms sets out that the completion of the investment is subject to
completion conditions:
5.3. If a Pitch is successful, the Investee  will instruct  Crowdcube to circulate a copy  
of the Investees  proposed Articles of Association, bond instrument or fund 
documentation to each Investor  by email, and to request that each Investor inform 
Crowdcube by email within the time period specified in the email if they no longer  
wish to proceed with the Investment. If Crowdcube receives no response  from the 
Investor within the specified time period, the Investor will be deemed to have 
confirmed his/her order  and the Investee will accept  his/her order  and such  order  will 
become a legally  binding  contract to invest between the Investee  and the Investor 
upon expiry of the time period set out in the email, with completion of the investment 
conditional upon the Investee receiving payment from the Investor  and subject to the 
completion conditions  set out in clause 5.5 below.  The Investor agrees that the 
contract to invest between the Investee and Investor  formed in accordance with this 
clause shall incorporate any warranties given  in the legal review  document (the 
"Legal Review")  attached to the email sent by Crowdcube to each Investor pursuant 
to this clause  (the "Warranties"), subject to the terms  and limitations of such 
Warranties as set out in the Legal  Review.
These completion conditions included:
5.5.2 the Warranties being true and there  being  no actual or contemplated material 
change to the Investee or the investment  round,  either before or after the expiry of 
the email set out in clause 5.3 above  and prior to the issue of shares to Investors  
(whether change is material to be determined by Crowdcube in its sole discretion);
The investor terms go on to explain the action Crowdcube can take when a condition isnt
met:
5.6 Crowdcube (and not the Investee or Investor) has absolute discretion to 
determine whether  the conditions set out in clause 5.5 above are satisfied at any time 
during the completions process prior to the issue of shares to Investor by Investee. If 
Crowdcube determines a condition is not satisfied, Crowdcube may in its absolute 
discretion:
5.6.1 recirculate the email  to Investors as set out in clause  5.3 above,  to include, as 
required by Crowdcube,  the Articles of Association  of the Investee  alongside  a 
disclosure statement detailing the failed condition. This email shall also request that 
each Investor inform Crowdcube by email within the time specified  in the email if they 
no longer wish to proceed with the Investment. If Crowdcube receives  no response 
from the Investor within the stated time period,  the Investor will be deemed to have 
confirmed his order
The original  legal review  document emailed to Mr E in July 2018 explained under the
warranties section that the pre-money valuation used for calculating the share price would
be £103,000,000 (rather than £104,000,000 shown  on the pitch). Crowdcube  was then
informed by Company  A that the valuation had been  reduced by over half. I consider this to
be a material change  and the investor terms make it clear  that any material change should
be disclosed  to investors before the investment proceeds  regardless of whether the
Ref: DRN65087348previous deadline has expired. So, by making Mr E aware of this and providing a further
deadline to proceed, I think Crowdcube  acted  fairly  and in-line with its investor terms.
Its also important to note that the FCA said the following  in its July 2018 consultation paper
on loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
We expect platforms to complete any necessary due diligence  before they market
investments to investors. In addition, the platform may become aware of new 
information that materially affects  the borrowers  credit risk after it has finalised its 
due diligence  process, but before money  has been  irrevocably committed  by 
investors. In this case and under the Principles of Businesses (PRIN), and the clients  
best interests rule (COBS 2.1.1R),  we expect platforms  to give investors the option 
not to proceed  with the investment, as the conditions they based their investment 
decision on have changed.
Its clear that Crowdcube has to provide  investors with an opportunity  to not proceed in these
circumstances and in Mr Es case,  I can see the email did give him an option to withdraw.
Ive also not seen any evidence to show Mr E raised any concerns with Crowdcube about
the valuation before the second deadline had expired or at any time prior to Company A
going into administration. I appreciate  Mr E is unhappy with the language  used in the email,
with Company A explaining it was good news that he would own twice  as many shares for
the same  amount invested. However, having  being  provided with the reasons for the 
revaluation, he decided to proceed with the investment. Mr E sent Crowdcube an email in
response to the new valuation,  asking it to confirm when the investment in Company A
would be taken so he could ensure that he had enough funds available. So, on this basis,
Im satisfied it was fair for Crowdcube  to allow Mr Es investment to proceed despite the
change in Company As valuation.
Overall, taking everything into consideration I do not uphold  Mr Es complaint and as such I
wont be asking Crowdcube to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2021.
Ben Waites
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6508734