K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Miss C complain A-Plan  Holdings (trading  as A-Plan Insurance) mis-sold them a 
home contents insurance policy.
background
Miss C took out a home  contents insurance policy in 2012  in her name and her partners 
name (Mr L)  and renewed it annually.  Miss C took the policy  out through  A-Plan Insurance 
who acted as their broker and had designated authority from the underwriter too.
In 2016 Mr L and Miss C had a large  amount of jewellery and watches stolen. Miss C 
claimed on the insurance policy.  The underwriter  cancelled  the policy and rejected the claim 
saying that Miss C hadnt told it about  the full value of the jewellery  and watches when the 
insurance was taken out. The underwriter  did so saying that had it known the true value of 
the unspecified jewellery in the house  it wouldnt have  insured them.  Miss C complained to 
the underwriter and then to us.
In 2017 one of our ombudsmen issued a Final  Decision saying that the underwriter hadnt  
acted unfairly cancelling the policy and rejecting  the claim. They found that Mr L and Miss C 
were insured  for approximately 85% of their specified valuables and approximately 15% of 
their unspecified  valuables. Following our ombudsmans decision, Miss C complained that A-
Plan Insurance had mis-sold the policy saying that hadnt chosen  a policy that was suitable 
or warned her that the policy could be cancelled if she was under insured.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint but didnt uphold it. They  didnt think that 
A-Plan Insurance had any way of knowing how big the gap between the actual value of the 
valuables insured and the amounts they were insured  for. They  agreed that A-Plan 
Insurance hadnt told Miss C that the policy could be cancelled  in the event of under 
insurance but it had explained it was important to get up to date valuations. Miss C didnt 
agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive spoken to Miss C and listened to a large  number of calls between A-Plan Insurance 
when the policy was taken out and before renewals, as well as calls immediately after the 
burglary and during the investigation.  Ive also seen  other evidence on the file. I can see that 
this has been  an extremely difficult time for Miss C and that its had a big impact  on her. But 
what I have to decide is whether the policy was mis-sold by A-Plan Insurance.
Having listened  to the calls, and having looked at the documentation  that A-Plan Insurance  
sent to Miss C, I cant say that A-Plan Insurance found a policy that wasnt  suitable, nor can I 
say that it didnt explain to Miss C the importance of getting up to date valuations of the 
watches and jewellery so that the cover  would be adequate. Ill explain why.
Miss C asked A-Plan Insurance for a quote,  and spoke to the broker she did, for a number of 
reasons, including the large number of items  of jewellery  and watches she had. A-Plan  
Insurance explained the difference between obtaining off the peg insurance where one 
size fits all policies are sold in large volumes and obtaining bespoke policies through it. In 
Ref: DRN68099692the course of this explanation, A-Plan Insurance explained that it needed to know  what  
valuables Miss C had and it would help to have up to date valuations so that it knew it had 
got the right policy. Its clear from the calls that Miss C wanted to keep the premiums  as low 
as possible  for example, she wanted to know what difference it would make if she agreed  
to pay a bigger  excess in the event of a claim  and in the calls there are a number of 
occasions when  Miss C makes it clear  that the value of the unspecified and specified 
jewellery that shes got could well be higher than the amounts shes  given  for the purposes  
of the policy. But I dont think A-Plan  Insurance was aware, or could have been aware, that 
the amounts were  as large as they turned out to be. More  importantly, I think A-Plan 
Insurances explanation was quite  clear  given the type of contract Miss C was taking out it 
needed to know  how much her valuables were  worth to make  sure it recommended the right 
policy. If, for example, they were worth  a lot then Miss C might have to get a safe installed. 
Or, for example, it might  make sense to go to an underwriter that would look at how often 
she wore the jewellery in question i.e. her wearing  habits.
Miss C is right that A-Plan Insurance never said on the phone  that the underwriter could 
cancel her policy in the event  of a claim if it turned out she was significantly under insured. 
A-Plan Insurance gave examples of customers who hadnt given up to date values and 
ended up not having enough  cover.  That was a risk that Miss C was already aware of as 
shed helped  her mother with an insurance  claim  who was under insured. But I do think A-
Plan Insurance made  it clear that under insurance was a problem, and when it became clear 
that Miss Cs unspecified jewellery might be worth more  than the policy assumed A-Plan 
Insurance told Miss C that it was important she put together  a list of all the jewellery that she 
had and get up to date valuations. A-Plan  Insurance followed this up when Miss C said that 
shed wait until her policy  was nearer the renewal date, but when it did Miss C was happy to 
leave the amounts as they were.  In other words, I think A-Plan Insurance made it clear that it 
was important Miss C didnt under insure as that wouldnt be in her interests and encouraged 
her on several occasions to check the value of her items. In this case  whats  unfortunate is 
that the amount of unspecified  jewellery  Miss C had meant that the underwriter wouldnt 
have taken on the risk had it known the true position.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6809969