K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Zenith Insurance plc rejected her claim made on her motor insurance 
policy. She wants it to settle the claim.
background
Miss C said she reversed  into another  car and she made a claim to Zenith.  She said her car 
had been in a good condition pre-accident. But Zenith had the car inspected by expert 
engineers. This found multiple faults  with the car that it said werent accident related or due 
to the car being in storage. There were also concerns  about  the damage  claimed  for being 
inconsistent with the accounts of what happened. 
So Zenith declined  the claim under the fraud  section of the policys terms and conditions  and 
asked Miss C to reimburse its outlay.  Miss C said she was arranging her own engineers 
report to counter Zeniths.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Zenith 
had reasonably relied on the expert engineers  reports. She thought it had reasonable 
grounds to decline  the claim, cancel the policy and recover its costs under  the policy terms 
and conditions. She invited Miss C to provide independent engineering evidence to support 
her version of events.
Miss C replied that it was difficult  for her engineer to assess  the damage a year after the 
event. She asked for a full copy of Zeniths engineers report  to defend her case. And she 
asked for her case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Miss Cs policy contains  a section on fraudulent claims. The terms and 
conditions say that Zenith may decline a claim if it has reasonable grounds to think  it isnt 
genuine or has been exaggerated to receive a favourable settlement. If a claim is declined 
for this reason, Zenith may cancel the policy and recover its outlay. I think  this is a common 
term in insurance policies and I dont think its unusual. 
When Zenith investigated Miss Cs claim, it found  a number  of concerns. Miss C had said 
that her car was in good condition for its mileage  before the accident. But the independent 
engineer found  a number  of pre-existing faults  and damage. He didnt think the car could 
have been driven  as Miss C described.  And he also said the claimed for damage couldnt  
have occurred as Miss C described. Zenith  asked Miss C to account for the discrepancies 
between her witness statement and the damage to both cars.  But Zenith wasnt  satisfied with 
this. 
Miss C said the cars faults could have developed whilst it was in storage. But I can see that 
Zenith consulted the independent engineer about  this and he said these wouldnt have  been  
caused by the car being in storage  for four months  before the car was tested. 
Ref: DRN60987902Miss C asked for Zeniths  engineers report to share  with her engineer. But I dont think 
Zeniths decision not to provide this was unreasonable. This is because  an independent 
engineers report  would  need  to be impartial and not influenced by Zeniths own report.  I 
think an independent engineer should  be able to assess the condition of the car and provide 
an opinion  on the cause of the damage  without this report. 
Miss C has had over a year since  she first offered to provide  an independent and impartial 
engineers report  to support her stance. Shes had over three  months since the investigator  
invited her to provide  further evidence. But I cant see that she provided any further 
information for me to consider. Without this, I cant say that Zenith  acted unreasonably in 
relying on its expert independent  engineers reports and so decline the claim, cancel the 
policy and recover its outlay. I think its entitled  to do by the policy  terms and conditions. 
Miss C was also unhappy with the length of time it took Zenith to deal with her claim. But I 
think Zenith was entitled to investigate the claim. I cant see that there were any avoidable 
delays in this process.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6098790