K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds  decision to settle  a third 
party claim under his car insurance policy. Calpe is looking to recover  the costs  it paid the 
third party from Mr K directly.
Calpe is the lead insurer in this case.  
background
Mr K bought a car insurance policy  with Calpe. In August  2017  he said he went  to a 
nightclub and left his keys with a valet at the club. Mr K said he asked the valet  if he was 
insured and he told him he was. Mr K said he later drove his car home and wasnt aware  of 
any incident until he noticed some minor damage to the rear of his car a couple of days later.  
Calpe received a claim from a third party two days after the incident. After investigating the 
claim, Calpe settled it on the best terms possible under the Road Traffic Act. But it said it 
would recover the costs of the claim from Mr K because hed breached  the terms of his 
policy. This was because Mr K gave  his keys to somebody who wasnt insured to drive his 
car. 
Our investigator thought Calpe had acted  reasonably. But he thought Calpe should agree a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr K for the costs he owed it.
Mr K didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy  says;  
The Company (Calpe) shall not be liable in respect  of any claim arising  while Your  
Car is being used  or driven:
(e) By any person  not described  on the Certificate  of Motor Insurance and/or 
Schedule as entitled to drive or in charge of the car.
Mr K said when he drove to the nightclub, he gave his keys to a valet. He explained that the 
security staff also operates  as a car parking team. Mr K said its difficult to find parking in the 
area and there are restrictions in front of the club. 
Calpe contacted the club. A representative  for the club denied  that its staff drove  the cars. 
Instead he said they would display the keys to any potential traffic wardens to indicate that 
the owner of the car was about  to drive away. 
Mr K said that when he went to collect his car early on the morning of 6 August 2017, he 
didnt notice the car had been moved,  nor did he notice any damage  to it. The staff also 
didnt say anything  to Mr K when  he collected  his keys from them.
Ref: DRN65504012I understand Mr K feels Calpes decision is unfair.  But Calpe has shown that it received  
evidence of damage and injury  to a third party following an incident  involving Mr Ks car. So I 
think its decision not to cover the claim under  Mr Ks policy  was fair and reasonable. And it 
negotiated the costs  of the third party claim down in order to settle the claim on the best 
terms possible. 
Because Mr K said he gave the keys to somebody who wasnt insured under the policy  to 
drive his car  and the name of the person  the third party  gave was the same  name  as the 
valet, I think Calpe acted reasonably in dealing with the third party  claim under the terms of 
the Road Traffic Act. This means  that Calpe is entitled to recover the third party  costs from 
Mr K. 
I know Mr K will be disappointed. But overall I think Calpe  properly  investigated the claim 
and reached its decision  reasonably. And it has a very common term which allows  Calpe to 
defend or settle a claim even if Mr K doesnt agree with it. I think Calpe has applied  this term 
in a fair and reasonable  way. 
However, I agree with the investigator that I think Calpe should  offer a reasonable 
repayment plan to Mr K rather than expect him to pay for the claim costs in a lump sum. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint  
other than to require  that Calpe arrange a reasonable repayment plan with Mr K to recover 
the costs of the third party claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6550401