K820x#14complaint
In 2002, Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage  through The Mortgage Directory (TMD). 
Alongside the mortgage, TMD sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs F think that TMD mis-sold the policy to them and believe that it should refund 
them all the premiums  they paid for it, plus interest.
background
I previously sent Mr and Mrs F and TMD a provisional decision on this complaint. That 
provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have  attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and 
explained that I didnt think TMD had mis-sold the PPI policy  to Mr and Mrs F.
I asked Mr and Mrs F and TMD  to send me any further comments and evidence  they wanted 
me to consider before I made a final decision.  TMD has told us it has nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs F have  told us that they found  my provisional decision  to be disappointing  as 
they believe the policy was worthless, but they havent brought anything  new to my attention 
which makes me think that TMD breached the mortgage  code.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mr and Mrs F and TMD have  told us or sent us throughout 
this case, but as there is nothing new for me to consider in relation to the mortgage code 
since I sent my provisional  decision,  l have reached  the same  conclusion for the same 
reasons.
I do not think that TMD mis-sold  PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above and in my provisional decision,  I am not upholding  
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against  The Mortgage Directory. I am not going  to tell it to give 
them any money  back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68721262COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
In 2002, Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage through The Mortgage Directory (TMD). Alongside the 
mortgage, TMD sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs F think that TMD mis-sold  the policy  to them and believe that it should  refund them all the 
premiums they paid for it, plus interest.
background
The adjudicator who looked into this complaint thought that TMD had mis-sold  the PPI policy  to 
Mr and Mrs F because Mrs F was self employed  and could only have made  a successful claim for 
unemployment in quite limited circumstances. The adjudicator didnt think  that TMD had told 
Mr and Mrs F about this and that they wouldnt  have bought the policy if it had explained  things 
properly. TMD  disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so it has come to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive looked into everything and I dont currently intend to uphold it. 
I understand that this may now be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs F, but I hope my explanation  will help 
them understand  why.
When we investigate  complaints, we must do so in accordance with the law and with the regulations  
set out for us in the disputes section of the Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook.
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  is about the way TMD sold PPI to them.  Selling PPI became a regulated 
activity in January  2005. When PPI was sold before that date,  as here, we can only look into 
complaints if the seller was already in our compulsory jurisdiction  and the event  complained about  
was ancillary to a regulated  activity, or if the seller was covered by one of our predecessor schemes  
at the relevant time.
TMD didnt join our compulsory jurisdiction until 2004, but in 2002 when Mr and Mrs F bought the PPI, 
it was subject  to the rules of the Mortgage Code Arbitration Scheme (the mortgage code). This 
means that we can look into Mr and Mrs Fs compliant,  but can only consider if TMD breached the 
mortgage code.
The mortgage  code  was mainly about the way businesses gave  advice about  mortgages and followed 
good lending practices. It put only limited responsibilities on the way businesses sold insurance. In 
summary, it said that businesses had to:
Give consumers a description  of any insurance services which could  be arranged (for 
example buildings,  contents, mortgage payment  protection and life insurance).
Tell consumers whether it was a condition of the mortgage that such insurance be taken out 
and whose  responsibility  it was to ensure that it was taken out.
Tell consumers whether it was a condition of the mortgage that such insurance be arranged 
by the business.
Give consumers a general  description  of any cost, fees or other charges  in connection with 
the mortgage which  may be payable by the customer.
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  is that as Mrs F was self employed when  they took the policy it may have 
been very difficult for them to make a successful claim if she became unemployed.  Theyve told us 
that TMD didnt explain this to them  and so sold them the policy under  false pretences. However, the 
mortgage code did not oblige TMD to explain  the terms about  self employment  to Mr and Mrs F. TMD 
Ref: DRN68721263only had to describe broadly the type of cover that could be arranged. So even if TMD didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs F about the detailed policy terms, it wouldnt  have  breached the mortgage code and 
wouldnt have given me grounds to uphold  their complaint.
I have looked at everything else Mr and Mrs F have told us and they havent raised any other 
concerns which in my view are likely to have breached the mortgage code.  I can see that TMD let 
them know that PPI was optional  and that they knew they would have to pay for it. I havent found  any 
other grounds to tell TMD  to give them any money back.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint 
against The Mortgage Directory.
I now invite  both parties to respond  to this provisional  decision before 19 January 2019. I will then 
consider any responses  I receive before I make a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6872126