K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF)  applied an unfair charge 
following his decision to voluntarily terminate (VT) his hire purchase agreement  (HPA).
background
Mr W entered into a HPA with SMF  in August 2015 to acquire a car.
In 2018, he decided to VT the HPA and returned the signed VT form to SMF in June of that 
year. In September  2018, Mr W received a letter from SMF saying that the car wasnt 
returned in good condition  and there  was a shortfall  on the sale amount for which he was 
liable. Mr W says he disagreed with the damage assessment as the car was in good 
condition when he returned it.
Mr W complained  to SMF asking for the amount it was chasing  him for to be written off. He 
says SMF  offered to reduce the amount by 50% but he doesnt feel the charge is fair.
SMF says that an inspection of the car was carried out on 13 July 2018, which identified a 
number of areas of damage. It says that the Car Auction Price (CAP) price  was set at 
£2,175. However,  the car sold for £1,300 leaving a shortfall of £875. It said that Mr W was 
charged this amount as this was the amount it would have cost to rectify the damage to the 
car. As a gesture  of goodwill  if offered  to reduce the amount to £437.50
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that Mr W wasnt  liable for the price the car 
sold for at auction but was liable for damage caused to the car that was not considered 
normal wear and tear. He said that the inspection report  hadnt provided a breakdown of the 
costs of repairing  any of the damage  listed and as SMF hadnt provided  a breakdown of 
charges he couldnt  assess  what was a fair amount for Mr W to be charged. He also noted 
that a number of the items listed in the inspection report could be considered as normal  wear 
and tear.
Our adjudicator noted SMFs offer to reduce the charge by 50%. However  as a breakdown of 
the charges hadnt been provided he didnt think he could say the charge had been applied  
fairly. Therefore he said all charges should be removed and any adverse information 
regarding this agreement  should be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
SMF didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said it wasnt  able to provide a breakdown for 
each repair. It noted that our adjudicator  had challenged seven of the fifteen items listed  in 
the inspection  report as possibly being within the fair wear and tear guidelines. It said based 
on this its offer to reduce  the amount it was charging  Mr W was fair.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr W had the right to VT his agreement and as he did this after paying more than 
50% of the total amount due under the HPA he was not required to pay anything  
more - subject to the car being  returned in a reasonable  condition;
the HPA set out details regarding the return condition of the car including that the car 
must not require any refurbishment, be ready for resale and be free from any 
Ref: DRN62002382mechanical or body  damage. If the car isnt in good  repair then the hirer would be 
liable for the costs needed to put the car in good  repair;
after the car was returned an inspection was carried out which  listed fifteen areas  of 
damage. Having  looked  at the photographs provided I thought that a number of the 
charges shouldnt be applied unless further evidence could be provided;
the stain on the seat upholstery,  the small chip on the windscreen, the scuffed mirror 
housing, a dent in the sill panel and marks on the front wheel trim (right) fell outside 
of normal wear  and tear guidelines  and so I thought  it reasonable that a charge 
would be made for these;
repairs werent carried out before the car was sold but this wasnt  unusual and a 
charge can be applied to reflect the reduction  in value caused by the damage;
the car was sold at auction and there was a shortfall.  Although the shortfall could be 
a reflection of the damage to the car, it could also be a reflection of the market 
conditions prevalent on the day of auction. 
Overall, I didnt  find, without further  support, it was fair for SMF to hold Mr W liable for the 
shortfall in the sale price.  However, I did think it fair that a charge was applied  for the 
damage that fell outside of normal wear and tear. As a list of the charges by item of damage 
wasnt provided I thought  the fairest approach  would be to reduce the outstanding charge to 
£291, a third of the original amount, to reflect the proportion of damage  that I thought fell 
outside of normal  wear and tear.
SMF accepted my provisional decision. Mr W didnt.
Mr W said that when he bought the car there was minor damage which  he had repaired. He 
said the damage he was being charged for was either wear and tear or damage that 
occurred after handover. He didnt accept  he had to pay anything  without an itemised bill.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the comments Mr W has made but, as I set out in my provisional decision, it is 
reasonable that Mr W is charged for damage  that has happened to the car. I looked  at the 
damage listed and accepted that certain  damage fell outside  the fair wear  and tear 
guidelines. Although an itemised  bill wasnt provided, information about the sales  proceeds  
was. As there is evidence  of damage to the car and it didnt achieve  the expected sales 
price, I dont  think it is reasonable  that no charge at all is applied. 
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I think further evidence  would be needed in regard to 
ten of the fifteen items listed in the report,  and so I think the fair and proportionate resolution 
is for the outstanding charge to be reduced to £291 - that is a third of the original amount. 
Ref: DRN62002383my final decision
My final decision is that Specialist Motor Finance Limited should  reduce the outstanding  
amount owed by Mr W to £291.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6200238