K821x#15complaint
Mr C says FCL Consumer Finance Ltd (trading as Smart-Pig)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 7 payday loans Smart-Pig provided to Mr C between September 
2016 and May 2018. Mr Cs borrowing  history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount Repayment
1 01/09/2016 26/09/2016 £350 £420.00
2 05/11/2016 16/01/2017 £350 £525.00
3 13/03/2017 24/04/2017 £350 £467.60
4 31/05/2017 25/09/2017 £350 £525.00
5 22/11/2017 15/01/2018 £350 £501.20
6 20/03/2018 20/04/2018 £350 £436.80
7 23/05/2018 02/10/2018 £525 £525.00
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint in part and thought loans 5 onwards shouldnt have 
been given because his financial situation  wasnt improving. Smart-Pig disagreed, saying it 
carried out proportionate checks. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was 
passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Smart-Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Smart-Pig  should fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN63369962There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Smart-Pig was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think Smart-Pig needed  to more when it approved loans  1 to 4. Mr C 
didnt disagree  with this so I won be making further  findings on these loans, but I have 
considered them when looking at Mr Cs borrowing history and his financial situation overall.
The adjudicator explained that had Smart-Pig carried  out proportionate checks  for loan 5 it 
would have shown  Mr C was not able to sustainably repay further borrowing. I agree with 
this and Ill explain why.
Smart-Pig says it carried out checks when Mr C applied for loan 5 and these checks  didnt 
reveal anything  of concern. It says based on Mr Cs income and expenditure, he had 
sufficient disposable  income to afford the repayment. However, I think if Smart-Pig had 
reacted effectively to the information  it had gathered  it wouldve seen that Mr C was having  
issues managing  his finances. Mr Cs credit  history reveals his growing reliance on 
borrowing in general.  And his total debt had increased significantly   from £1,000 to £3,000 - 
in the space of two months. I think this information  shouldve prompted Smart-Pig  to obtain a 
better understanding of his finances before  lending  to Mr C again.
Smart-Pig says that the only extra account  Mr C had obtained by loan 5 was a low balance  
credit card. However, Mr C was also relying on his overdraft  and his previous loans with 
Smart-Pig had been for the same  amount  each  time and he was in need of the loans every  
couple of months.  Had Smart-Pig considered  this new credit facility alongside Mr Cs use of 
his overdraft and his previous borrowing from Smart-Pig it wouldve seen that Mr C wasnt  in 
a position to take on more  borrowing and repay  it in a sustainable manner. 
Smart-Pig has said that Mr Cs use of his overdraft wasnt  a concern as it is normal for 
students to rely on their overdraft. But I dont think such generalisations are useful here as 
looking at the individual  circumstances of Mr Cs case he was becoming progressively reliant 
on his overdraft and using it to the higher end of his limit as time went  on. This supports the 
overall picture that he was not managing his finances.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Smart-Pigs  lending history with Mr C with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Smart-Pig should reasonably have seen  that further 
Ref: DRN63369963lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Smart-Pig should  have  realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Smart-Pig  ought to have realised  Mr C was not managing  to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr C had taken  out 6 loans  within 18 months.  So Smart-Pig ought  
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Cs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Cs first loan was for £350 and loan 6 was for the same amount, and then for loan 
7 he borrowed £525. At this point Smart-Pig ought to have  known that Mr C was not 
likely borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing  
need. 
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Smart-Pig.  Loan 7 was 
taken out around 19 months after Mr Cs first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr C 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Smart-Pig over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr C lost out because Smart-Pig  continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Cs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about 5 to 7 and Smart-Pig should put things right.
putting things right  what FCL Consumer Finance  Ltd needs to do
FCL Consumer Finance  Ltd shouldnt have  given Mr C loans 5 to 7.
A)FCL Consumer Finance Ltd should add together the total of the repayments made by 
Mr C towards  interest, fees and charges on these loans, including  payments  made  to 
a third party where applicable, but not including anything FCL Consumer Finance Ltd 
has already refunded.
B)FCL Consumer Finance Ltd should calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual  
payments made by Mr C which were  considered as part of A, calculated  from the 
date Mr C originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)FCL Consumer Finance Ltd should pay Mr C the total of A plus B.
D)FCL Consumer Finance Ltd should remove any adverse information  it has recorded 
on Mr Cs credit  file in relation to loan 5. The overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing for 
loans 6 and 7 means any information recorded  about them  is adverse, so FCL 
Ref: DRN63369964Consumer Finance Ltd should remove these loans entirely from Mr Cs credit file. If 
FCL Consumer Finance  Ltd has sold any of the loans it should  ask the debt 
purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest.  FCL Consumer  
Finance Ltd should give Mr C a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted,  if they ask 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint.  FCL Consumer Finance Ltd 
should pay put things right for Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 13 March 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6336996