K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that when he switched his account to HSBC  UK Bank Plc trading as 
First Direct  he didnt  receive travel vouchers as a gift incentive  as advertised.  He thinks the 
process of claiming  his gift incentive was confusing.  He also complains that First Direct 
offered him a cash  alternative but then rescinded on this.
To settle  matters hed like travel  vouchers as originally advertised and compensation for the 
stress and effort  in trying to get the advertised  incentive.
background
Mr M switched his account to First Direct in November 2018.  At the time it offered a selection 
of joining  gifts. These included £150 of travel vouchers, personal development courses and 
some tech gifts.
On 15 February 2019 Mr M emailed  First Direct to explain  that hed given his welcome gift to 
his son whod wanted travel vouchers but redeemed a personal development course by 
mistake. For ease, in my decision, I will refer to Mr M selecting a switcher  gift. Mr M 
explained that they didnt  want, and hadnt used the personal development course, so he 
asked if First Direct would  provide travel vouchers instead.
On 20 February 2019, First Direct emailed Mr M. The email  explained that his switcher gift 
wasnt available and it offered him a cash alternative.  Mr M went back  to First Direct 
because this didnt  answer the question hed asked so he complained.
In early March 2019 First Direct apologised to Mr M because it had incorrectly  told him hed 
receive a cash alternative. Although Mr M had wanted travel  vouchers it explained  that hed 
successfully chosen  a personal development  course  before  the date it had sent its letter  
offering a cash alternative. As hed already made  his gift selection it wasnt possible to 
change it and a cash alternative couldnt  be given. Subsequently on 18 March  2019 First 
Direct wrote to Mr M and offered £100  for the frustration  caused by the email offering him a 
cash credit.
Unhappy with First Directs response, Mr M referred his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. They explained 
that First Direct withdrew the travel vouchers as a switcher gift in the middle of December 
2018. Although  the adjudicator empathised  that the site was difficult to use they couldnt say 
that the travel vouchers would  still have  been available  when Mr M selected the online 
course in January 2019.
The adjudicator also noted that the terms and conditions allowed First Direct  to change the 
gifts. Although Mr M didnt  want the personal development course,  our adjudicator  noted  the 
course had been  chosen  and could be used. The adjudicator  thought the availability of the 
course, together with the £100 compensation offered by First Direct was fair and reasonable 
compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  think First Direct was required to offer a cash  alternative because  
Mr M had already selected  the personal  development  course  before the date First Direct 
emailed him telling him hed be paid a cash alternative.
Ref: DRN68473632Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators view.  In summary:
he says he attempted  to find the travel vouchers but the system forced him to register  
for the course which  he didnt  want;
there was a link to the travel vouchers which made him redeem  the personal 
development course and the link was still showing to redeem travel vouchers;
its unfair that he didnt receive  terms and conditions;
he doesnt think £100 compensation is fair and reasonable  because the travel 
vouchers were for £150; and
the adjudicator  didnt  ask First Direct  for the specific date it withdrew  the travel  
vouchers.
In response to Mr Ms further comments, our adjudicator explained that they werent able to 
retrieve evidence of what Mr M would have seen when he redeemed  his switcher gift. 
However, Mr M had provided  a copy of his redemption email  and First Direct had also 
provided evidence  that a course was selected.
First Direct  provided a copy of the welcome  letter  itd written to him in mid November 2018 
together with evidence  it was sent.  This letter enclosed a copy of the terms and conditions  
so our adjudicator  thought he should  reasonably  have received them.
The adjudicator noted that First Direct withdrew  the travel vouchers on 21 December 2018 
and that Mr M selected his gift in January 2019. Because  Mr M redeemed his switcher  gift in 
January 2019  our adjudicator couldnt  agree that the travel vouchers  wouldve been 
available at the time he redeemed his gift.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the outcome 
reached by our adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
Before I look at the merits of Mr Ms complaint Id like to explain that whilst I appreciate Mr M 
found the process of claiming his gift incentive on First Directs systems confusing its not 
within our powers to tell a business to change  its systems.
I realise Mr M found the process of claiming his gift incentive confusing and he feels the 
system forced  him to accept a personal development course. Unfortunately I havent been  
able to see the screens and options  that would have been available to Mr M at the time.  But 
based on the information Ive seen I think its more likely than not that a personal 
development course was selected.
I say this because  Mr M provided an email  which confirms  that a course  was selected and 
First Directs records also show a course was selected. I can also see that Mr M raised  his 
concerns with First Direct it explained the steps  that Mr M would have  needed to complete to 
make a booking.
Mr M says he never received the terms and conditions and this is unfair. First Direct has 
provided a copy of the welcome letter addressed to Mr M in November 2018 and which 
contained the terms and conditions. It also provided  evidence that this letter was sent. I 
therefore think its more  likely than not that Mr M received them.
Ref: DRN68473633Mr M says he wasnt notified when First Direct  withdrew the travel  vouchers but I cant say 
this is unfair  because the terms and conditions dont require this.
The terms and conditions  make clear that First Direct cant guarantee the quality or 
availability of the gifts and they also allow First Direct to replace any of the gifts with one of 
equal or greater  value  if any of the gifts become  unavailable for reasons outside  its control.  
First Direct  explained that it had difficulty fulfilling requests for travel vouchers and as a result 
it made a decision to remove travel vouchers on 21 December 2018.
The information Ive seen shows Mr M selected  a switcher gift on 11 January 2019.  This was 
after First Direct had removed the travel  vouchers  so I cant  agree that the travel vouchers 
would have been available at the time the gift was selected.
First Direct  emailed  Mr M on 20 February 2019 to offer a cash alternative due to his switcher 
gift not being available.  I can understand why Mr M thinks First Direct has rescinded on its 
offer to provide a cash  alternative.  However, based  on the information Ive seen its clear 
Mr M was confused by this at first because he went back to First Direct to explain that it 
didnt answer the question  hed asked about whether it would offer travel  vouchers rather 
than the personal  development course  hed selected.
First Direct  explained that it made a mistake  in sending  the email  to Mr M because  it said 
this should only have been  sent to those customers whod selected travel vouchers before 
they were removed. Ive explained above  that in Mr Ms case  the information Ive seen 
shows the travel vouchers  had already been removed by the time he selected his gift.
First Direct  accepts  it shouldnt have sent the email offering the cash alternative to Mr M. It 
apologised for providing incorrect information and offered £100 compensation. In the 
circumstances I think this is fair and reasonable because the information Ive seen  shows 
that travel  vouchers  were no longer available when the switching gift was selected and the 
gift that was selected had a value.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6847363