K822xcomplaint
M  a limited  company  has complained, with the help of a representative, about a mis-sold 
interest rate hedging product (IRHP). The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has paid basic  redress 
plus interest. M considers it should  also meet its consequential losses.
background 
M took out a ten-year callable swap on 20 June 2007. It initially complained  about  this sale in 
2010, but this was rejected by the bank. Then in 2012 the bank reviewed the sale under the 
agreement reached  with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
After a lengthy exchange of correspondence  and a number  of revisions of the banks 
conclusions an offer was made to refund the payments less the cost of an alternative two-
year vanilla swap, together with some bank fees and charges and interest. This was 
ultimately accepted,  and a payment was made  on 25 June 2015.
M then submitted  a claim  for consequential  losses, which I would summarise as:
Arrangement and exit fees on lending  approximately £130,000.
Exit fee on the LIBOR loan ending in 600  £109,556.
Overdraft fees on the account ending 575  £4,600.
Capital and income losses resulting from the forced sale of a property - £325,000 
and £167,760 respectively.
Professional fees  £64,234
The bank rejected the majority of these  claims but offered  £12,190.15  for a proportion  of the 
exit fees charged. M remained  unhappy and brought the matter  to this service  for 
consideration.
An adjudicator investigated the complaint  and concluded it hadnt  been shown that the sale 
of the property was a result of the hedging. Also, interest had been paid on the basic  redress  
amount and it hadnt been shown the overdraft charges were in excess of this. And the 
banks conclusions and offer in respect of charges  and fees hadnt been shown to be 
incorrect.
A recommendation was however made  in respect  of the professional fees, although this was 
only for £10,000 rather than the level claimed. This was on the basis that both the review 
and our service are designed  in a way that they can be used without professional 
representation. So, the award was limited to cover the original complaint and appeals  of the 
banks original offer under  the review. The award  was also limited because there was 
insufficient evidence  to demonstrate the level of fees claimed and a lack of detail as to what 
specific work the fees were for.
The bank accepted the recommendation. M didnt. In its opinion the claim for professional 
fees should be met in full, as without  assistance it wouldnt have succeeded with its claim. 
This is evidenced by the fact the bank revised its offer on a number of occasions  following 
representations its professional representative  made  over a number of years. And the bank 
didnt deal with the review  properly and in line with the regulatory guidance.
M also said that it remained of the view that the sale of the property was caused by the IRHP 
and that it should be compensated the losses that it has suffered as result  of this.
Ref: DRN60405222I issued my provisional decision on 16 August 2018,  that decision is attached and forms part 
of this decision. In summary I found that: 
I could not revisit anything to do with the sale of the IRHP; the complaint about mis-
sale had been  settled in full and final settlement.  
The consequential loss claim had to be considered through the lens of how the mis-
sale claim was settled  i.e. that M would have had a two-year  vanilla swap.  
Because of this, I was not convinced  that M would have been in a materially  different 
financial position when the property was sold  and, in any case, there  were  wider 
issues that led to the bank  pushing  for the property to be sold.  
It was fair for M to be reimbursed for some of the professional  fees it paid  in 
particular, those  paid before the IRHP review and those incurred during the appeals 
of the original review  outcome. 
Whilst I was inclined to make  an award  for professional fees incurred during the 
above highlighted periods, insufficient  evidence had been provided in respect  of the 
fees claimed. 
So, I had to extrapolate  based on the available evidence  what a reasonable 
award for professional fees would be. Having done so, I agreed  that £10,000 was a 
reasonable award for this.  
It would  not be fair and reasonable for me to make an award  for fees incurred during 
the initial review process or for dealing with the complaint process with our service. 
M was also owed compensation for fees paid for negotiating a standstill agreement 
(£2,064).
M disagreed.  A significant amount of correspondence has been exchanged  since I issued 
my provisional decision. I have not summarised  everything here. Instead I have focused on 
the main points M made in its submissions   including  those  made by the representatives 
acting on Ms behalf. M submitted further invoices for professional fees incurred  and updated 
its claim in respect of the Putney  Wharf  property. 
In summary,  M and its representatives have said: 
The sale of the Putney  property should  not have happened, the sale was pushed  by 
the bank even though  it did not make  financial  sense and the sale would not have 
happened but for the problems with the swap. 
The commentary from the bank shows that it was all about managing the banks 
position. 
Throughout the course of the complaint and review the bank were  not treating M 
fairly and treated  the IRHP mis-sale and problems caused by this as a side issue. 
The information provided by the bank is incomplete and it disputes a number of 
comments made by the bank within the information that has been provided. 
The appointment of representatives  was absolutely necessary  so these fees should 
be covered in full  without assistance M would not have  been able to save the 
business or successfully  claim  redress from the bank.
The only gap in the claim for professional  fees is that there are no timesheets in 
relation to one of the representatives services. 
It is not reasonable not to make  an additional  award given the additional invoices  
submitted. The invoices evidence the amount  that has been paid for representation 
and it is not reasonable that this has not been awarded. 
Ref: DRN60405223M raised some concerns about the fees levied by GRG. Our adjudicator explained  that it is 
our understanding that the bank  will be reviewing this but that this would  need  to be raised  
separately; he provided a link to this review.
RBS disagreed with the additional award  for fees incurred in relation to the standstill 
agreement, as it thought these were already incorporated in the award of £10,000 for fees 
for professional representation. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached, this complaint has been  passed back to me for 
review. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I understand that M is adamant that it has not been dealt with fairly.  It is my role to fairly and 
reasonably decide if the business has done  anything wrong in respect of the individual  
circumstances of the complaint made  and  if I find that the business has done something 
wrong  award  compensation for any material loss or distress and inconvenience suffered by 
the complainant.
The responses to my provisional decision cover several different points and arguments. I 
have broken these  down  into the below topics and addressed these in turn. As I have 
explained above, my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this decision   a 
number of the arguments raised in response  to my provisional decision cover issues that I 
have already considered and addressed within that decision, so I have not repeated  my 
findings in respect  of all of these at length  again. 
Preliminary points
M originally complained  about the mis-sale of the IRHP. RBS reviewed Ms claim and 
ultimately offered  M redress in line with the FCA review. After  a number of reviews  M 
accepted the offer made  in full and final settlement of that aspect of its complaint. Whilst M 
may not be entirely  happy with the compensation it received, this was accepted in full and 
final settlement. So, I dont think it would be right for me to revisit this issue within this 
Ref: DRN60405224decision. By the same token, because the issue of mis-sale has been resolved in Ms favour,  
the starting point of my decision is that the IRHP was mis-sold.
M says it suffered consequential losses as a result  of the mis-sale of the IRHP.  For this part 
of the complaint, I need to look at whether  the banks failures actually caused these losses. 
And, if they did, I also need  to ask whether it is fair to hold the bank responsible  for the 
losses. To do this, I need to ask whether the bank  could reasonably foresee that its failures  
would result in losses  like these.
In other  words, I would need to be satisfied that the losses were  not too remote  from the 
banks failings.
Redress for the mis-sale  of the IRHP was paid out on the basis  that M would have taken out 
a two-year vanilla swap at a rate of 6.27%. I think it is fair, in this instance,  to assess the 
claim for consequential losses through the lens, so to speak, of the outcome of the review. 
So, in other words, I could  only make  an award for a loss that would  not have been suffered 
if M was in the position the outcome of the review aims to put it in.
The sale of the Putney  property 
I remain of the view that M would  likely  have been  in a materially  similar position when this 
property was sold if it had had the product that the IRHP review redress was based  on. So, I 
am not persuaded that M would not have had to sell the property if it had had a two-year  
vanilla swap  in line with the review redress. In any case, based on the available  
correspondence and commentary, I think it is clear  that the bank had concerns beyond the 
issues that were impacted  by the swap. 
So, I dont uphold this aspect of Ms complaint. 
Professional fees 
It may be helpful here to show the timeline of events  up to the date the complaint  was 
referred to this service:
2010  concerns about IRHP originally raised 
2012  review of IRHP began 
August 2014   original outcome of the review issued 
December 2014  further  offer made post challenge 
June 2015   final offer re mis-sale made and subsequently accepted  (15 June 2015)
25 June 2015   compensation for mis-sale  of the loan paid
8 February 2016  provisional outcome of consequential loss claim sent to M
4 April 2016  final outcome of consequential  loss claim sent to M
30 November 2016  complaint originally raised  with this service  
M has claimed a significant  amount  for the professional fees it has incurred.  Generally, there 
are limited  circumstances in which I think the bank ought to compensate the claimant  for 
third party representative  fees  but, in this case, I do think  that RBS should compensate M 
for some of the fees it incurred. 
The award I have  made  for this is considerably lower than the amount claimed. This is 
primarily for two reasons: 
Ref: DRN604052251)I have only made  an award  to cover fees reasonably incurred before the review 
commenced and during  the appeal of the conclusions reached by the bank during the 
mis-sale review. This significantly  reduces  the scope  of the award,  as much of Ms 
claim relates  fees incurred during the original review  process and his complaint to 
this service.
2)There is insufficient evidence of the work undertaken  in relation to the largest 
professional fees claim. 
I remain of the view that this approach  which I set out in more detail in my provisional  
decision  is fair and am not minded to depart from it or increase the award. To be clear,  it is 
not disputed that M paid the level of fees that he has claimed.  The issues are that I am only 
directing the bank to compensate M for a limited proportion of the fees incurred, and Ms 
adviser no longer  has its timesheets. 
This service operates in a way that is intended  to make it possible for complainants  to go 
through the entire  process  without the need  for professional representation. The same 
applied to the IRHP review. I understand that M disagrees with this and is adamant  that 
without representation the claim would  not have been successful.  M has said that this view is 
supported by the unacceptable offer originally received and the need for a number of 
appeals for the offer accepted to be made. I have made an award for the fees incurred  
during the appeal process in light of the issues M faced but I do not agree that this should  be 
expanded to cover the initial review. 
M has had a number of different professional representatives throughout the time period 
relevant to this complaint. The largest professional  fees claim is in relation to work 
undertaken by its financial  adviser. Unfortunately, the adviser does not have its timesheets. 
The adviser did submit further evidence of some of the work undertaken but I am still not 
persuaded that I can fairly make  a higher award taking into account  the available  information 
 for the same reasons  as set out in my provisional  decision. 
I also remain of the view that RBS should  compensate M for fees it incurred for professional 
representation in relation  to the standstill agreement. And, that it is fair for this award to be in 
addition to the £10,000 awarded more generally for professional fees incurred taking  into 
account the level of work  that has been  evidenced.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  Ms complaint  in part.
To compensate M The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc should update  and pay its existing 
consequential loss offer. Also, it should pay the £10,000 it has already agreed to pay for 
professional fees and an additional £2,064 for services provided in relation to the standstill 
agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60405226COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
M  a limited company  has complained,  with the help of a representative, about  a mis-sold  interest 
rate hedging product  (IRHP).  The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has paid basic redress plus interest. M 
considers it should also meet its consequential losses.
background
M took out a ten year callable swap on 20 June 2007. It initially complained about this sale in 2010,  
but this was rejected  by the bank. Then in 2012 the bank reviewed the sale under the agreement  
reached with the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).
Ref: DRN60405227After a lengthy  exchange of correspondence and a number of revisions  of the banks conclusions an 
offer was made to refund the payments less the cost of an alternative two year vanilla swap, together 
with some bank fees and charges and interest. This was ultimately accepted and a payment was 
made on 25 June 2015.
M then submitted a claim for consequential  losses, which  I would  summarise as:
Arrangement and exit fees on lending  approximately £130,000.
Exit fee on the LIBOR loan ending  in 600  £109,556.
Overdraft fees on the account ending 575  £4,600.
Capital and income losses resulting from the forced sale of a property - £325,000  and 
£167,760 respectively.
Professional fees  £64,234
The bank rejected  the majority of these claims,  but offered £12,190.15 for a proportion of the exit fees 
charged. M remained unhappy and brought the matter to this service for consideration.
An adjudicator investigated  the complaint and concluded it hadnt been shown that the sale of the 
property was a result of the hedging. Also interest had been paid on the basic redress amount  and it 
hadnt been shown the overdraft  charges were in excess of this. And the banks  conclusions and offer 
in respect of charges  and fees hadnt been shown  to be incorrect.
A recommendation was however made in respect of the professional fees,  although this was only for 
£10,000 rather than the level claimed.  This was on the basis  that both the review  and our service  are 
designed in a way that they can be used without professional representation. So the award was 
limited to cover  the original  complaint and appeals of the banks original offer under the review. The 
award was also limited  because there  was insufficient evidence to demonstrate the level of fees 
claimed and a lack of detail as to what specific work  the fees were  for.
The bank accepted the recommendation. M didnt. In its opinion the claim for professional fees should 
be met in full, as without  assistance it wouldnt  have succeeded with its claim. This is evidenced by 
the fact the bank revised its offer on a number of occasions  following representations its professional  
representative made over a number  of years. And the bank  didnt deal with the review properly  and in 
line with the regulatory guidance.
M also said that it remained  of the view that the sale of the property was caused by the IRHP  and that 
it should  be compensated  the losses that it has suffered as result of this.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
To decide what is fair and reasonable, I have to take account of relevant  law, regulation, guidance 
and what I consider to be good industry practice.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position and I am 
grateful to them, for taking the time to do so. I have considered these  submissions in their entirety. 
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to be the 
central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in 
detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
M originally complained  about  the mis-sale  of the IRHP.  RBS has since reviewed  this and offered M 
redress in line with the FCA review, which  it accepted in full and final settlement of that aspect of its 
complaint. Whilst  M may not be entirely happy with the compensation it received, this was accepted in 
full and final settlement. So, I dont  think it would  be right for me to revisit this issue within  this 
Ref: DRN60405228decision. By the same  token,  because the issue of mis-sale has been resolved in its favour,  the 
starting point  of my decision  is that the IRHP was mis-sold.
M says it suffered consequential losses. For this part of the complaint, I need  to look at whether the 
banks failures actually caused these losses. And if they did, I also need to ask whether its fair to hold 
the bank responsible for the losses. To do this, I would need to ask whether the bank could 
reasonably foresee that its failures  would result in losses  like these.
In other words, I would need  to be satisfied that the losses were not too remote from the banks 
failings.
Redress for the mis-sale of the IRHP  was paid out on the basis that M would have taken out a two 
year vanilla swap at a rate of 6.27%. I think it is fair, in this instance, to assess  the claim for 
consequential losses through the lens,  so to speak, of the outcome of the review.
So, in other words, I could only make  an award  for a loss that would not have been  suffered
if M was in the position the outcome of the review aims to put it in.
Ms response  to our adjudicators opinion focused on a number of concerns;  I have split them  broadly 
into the following categories and addressed these in turn.
the sale of the property
The sale of the property had already been agreed on 30 June 2009,  although  the contracts  had yet to 
be exchanged, in accordance with the meeting notes the bank provided   it seems the agreement  to 
put the property on the market was reached quite some time before this.
As mentioned  above, I need to look at consequential loss taking into account how the mis-sale was 
resolved. In this case, this was done on the basis that M would have had a two year vanilla swap. So, 
M would still have been making  payments towards the swap during  the course  of the first two years  
or, up until June 2009. Because of this it would  be difficult for me to conclude  that M would have been 
in a materially  different  position in terms of its finances at that time.
Equally, given  that the bank seems to have had a number of concerns  that led to it wanting  the 
property to be sold  and that M is likely to have been in largely the same financial  position  at the 
point when the sale was initiated  I am not persuaded  that the property would not have been sold if 
M had a two year vanilla swap instead.
fees and charges
M has claimed that a number of fees and charges it incurred are consequential losses.
These include overdraft  fees and arrangement  and exit fees.
The bank upheld the claim for arrangement and exit fees in part. It concluded that the arrangement 
and exit fees were not caused by the IRHP. It concluded that the renewal fees and associated  
margins were not impacted by the IRHP. It did, however,  make an award of £12,190.15 on the basis 
that if payments were made under the replacement swap and then redress had been paid at the 
relevant points throughout the course of the loan, assuming M used these payments  to reduce the 
loan, then that amount  less would have been paid in exit fees.
The bank did not make  an award for the exit fee on the other loan or overdraft  fees another  account. It 
acknowledged that, under the replacement swap, the additional funds that M would have had could 
have been used to reduce and/or avoid these  but, because the above award for exit fees was based 
on the entirety of the additional funds  being  used  to reduce that loan, the same funds could  not also 
be used for this.
I have no way of knowing  exactly how M would have used the additional  funds  it would  have had 
under the replacement swap. Its possible that it would have put these  towards  one of the above 
Ref: DRN60405229accounts or a combination of them.  Equally,  it is possible  that those funds would  not have  been used 
to reduce either of the loans  or to reduce the overdraft.
Taking everything into account  and without any substantive  arguments to the contrary   I think that 
the banks offer in relation  to this aspect of the claim  is fair.
professional fees
M has made  a claim for over £64,000  for the fees it has paid for legal and other professional  
representation. The services  provided  covered a number of different issues including; the sale of the 
property, pursuing  the complaint against the bank prior to and during the FCA review, as well as the 
complaint raised with this service.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the bank pay a portion of fees claimed  (£10,000), this was for the 
services provided by a professional adviser  in pursuing  the complaint before the FCA review and the 
appeals after the original offer was made. This is significantly less than was claimed  for those  
services but the adjudicator  was of the view that the evidence provided was insufficient to make a 
higher award.
Whilst people may choose  to employ  professional assistance there are limited circumstances when 
we would make an award for this. For example, our service is set up so that complainants can use it 
without the need for professional representation. The same applies to the IRHP  review. So, generally, 
we would not expect banks to compensate complainants for such fees incurred  during either process.
That said, I do think  that the bank should compensate M for some of the fees it incurred. Broadly 
speaking, the compensation I am inclined to award covers the fees that it incurred in dealing with the 
IRHP prior to the review  and during the appeal  processes, during the review, required to reach  an 
acceptable settlement. Unfortunately, there is limited  evidence of the exact time spent and activities 
undertaken by the professional adviser assisting  M during the course  of the relevant events. We have 
been told that the timesheets are no longer  available.
As a result, I have no way of knowing   with any certainty  exactly  how much work the advisor 
undertook  so, I have  had to consider, on balance, how much of the fees should  be recoverable in 
light of the work likely  undertaken.
We have  been provided with testimony from both M and the adviser, some of the correspondence  
exchanged in relation to the appeals of the review  and the banks internal notes which make 
reference to some of the interaction that the adviser  had with the bank between 2010  and 2013. All of 
these things together  paint a picture of the length of time that the adviser was assisting M for and the 
amount of work involved.  I acknowledge that this may not be the full picture  but, unfortunately, more  
concrete evidence  does not seem to be available.
As highlighted above I am not inclined to award  fees incurred over the entire period. I am only looking 
to make an award for the fees incurred prior to the review and during the appeal process.
M appears  to have  engaged the services of the professional adviser  in 2010. This is supported by the 
banks records. It is also clear that at that time the advisor  already began to raise concerns about the 
IRHP.
It is my understanding  that the relevant  adviser charged on an hourly basis at a rate of £175.  The 
award recommended by the adjudicator, and accepted by the bank, of £10,000 amounts to just over 
57 hours of work. The advisers work, at least, involved discussions, reviews and provision of advice 
to M  and, communication (including meetings) with the bank in addition  to drafting correspondence 
to and dealing with the responses from the bank. This work continued  over the course of a number of 
years. Because I have no way of knowing the exact amount of hours  spent  doing all of this, I have 
had to think about what a reasonable reflection  of the time likely  spent would  be.
Ref: DRN604052210I have thought  carefully about the testimony I have received but, whilst I sympathise  with Ms position 
 based on the evidence provided  I cant justify making  a higher award  for this than that 
recommended by the adjudicator.
M has provided  us with a number of invoices  for services provided by other professional 
representatives. The majority of these relate to services that I do not intend to make an award for in 
line with what I have said above, for example, these relate  to services provided  in pursuing  the claim  
through the original review  process or for pursuing the complaint through  our service. Also,  in some 
instances there is simply insufficient evidence  as to what the services  were.
Based on the invoices provided, some of the fees paid were for services  provided in relation to a 
standstill agreement. I dont  think it is unreasonable for M to have employed professional 
representation to assist  with this. So, I think that RBS should compensate M for these.
Taking into account the invoices  and comments from the relevant third party, the fees that appear to 
relate to the standstill agreement amount to around £1,376. In addition to this, we have been told that 
time amounting to a similar  level of bill would have been spent  with M to discuss the agreement and 
take instructions.  I have  not been provided with detailed  evidence of this. But, I am willing  to accept 
that some time would have been spent discussing  this with M. Again, I have no way of knowing 
exactly how much time was spent on this and have had to think about what I consider to have been 
likely under the circumstances.
In the absence  of better information I am not persuaded  that this time would have been  equal to that 
required to seek advice on, draft and negotiate  the agreement.  As a result,  I am only inclined to award 
half the amount  of the above  fees for the additional time spent with M, which amounts  to £688. So, I 
think RBS should pay M a total of £2,064 for this.
I understand that M feels  strongly that it is due significantly more for the fees that it incurred, in 
particular those  paid for the services of its financial adviser. But, based on the available evidence,  I 
am not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable  to make a higher award.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is that I uphold  Ms complaint in part.
To compensate M The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should update and pay its existing consequential  
loss offer. Also, it should pay the £10,000  it has already agreed  to pay for professional fees and an 
additional £2,064 for services provided  in relation to the standstill agreement.
I will consider anything  else either party would like to add, as long as I receive it by
16 September 2018.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6040522