K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a fee-paying 
Royalties Gold account.
Mrs M says that RBS led her to believe that if she did not agree to the Royalties Gold 
account she would not be able to obtain  any level of credit with RBS.
background
Mrs M opened  her Royalties Gold account in November  2004  and it remained as such  until 
February 2011, when  it was downgraded  as Mrs M agreed a repayment plan with RBS to 
clear her overdraft.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt  think the fee-paying Royalties  Gold  
account had been mis-sold. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicator  and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Mrs Ms complaint. Having done so, I am not 
going to uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs M has complained that she was led to believe that she had to agree to the Royalties 
Gold account to obtain credit. Whereas  RBS says that Mrs M didnt  apply for any credit until 
around four years later.  So I have carefully considered  what both parties have said and 
considered this in light of any other  evidence that has been provided.
Mrs M has said that she applied for a credit card around the time she took out the Royalties 
Gold packaged account and provided  evidence of the credit  card she was referring  to. 
Having passed  that evidence on to RBS, it has since been able to show (with a credit  card 
statement showing a zero balance) that Mrs M has held an RBS credit  card since at least 
March 2005. As this was some months  after the sale of the Royalties Gold  account, Ive 
gone on to consider the likelihood that applying for the credit  card was discussed  during the 
sale of the Royalties Gold account.
Having looked  at the Royalties Gold application  form, I can see that it says Please  invite  
customer to apply for a credit card and next to this Applied for has been written  and 
initialled  presumably by the member of staff who Mrs M was speaking to. As such, I think  
this supports Mrs Ms point that obtaining  credit  was discussed during the sale of the 
Royalties Gold account.
Mrs M says that she was told to get the Royalties  Gold account to obtain any level of credit. 
However, at the time the Royalties Gold account  provided reduced interest rates  on 
overdrafts, personal loans and credit  cards  amongst other benefits. Specifically, the 
Royalties Gold account provided a 2% discount on the interest rates  on Classic and Gold  
credit cards and included a 0% interest  introductory  period.  
Ref: DRN64821182Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that the reduced rates on borrowing  
were discussed with Mrs M during the sale of her Royalties Gold account and it was 
because of these  benefits  rather than it being a requirement to get any lending   that Mrs 
M agreed to it. I say this particularly as the credit card statement shows that Mrs M received 
a 0% interest introductory period until 25 May 2005 on the credit  card that she had with RBS. 
Therefore, taking everything into account including how long ago the sale took place, on 
balance, Im not persuaded that RBS misled Mrs M into thinking  that she had to get the 
Royalties Gold account to obtain  any type of borrowing. 
I dont think RBS sold the Royalties Gold account  on an advised basis. So it didnt have to 
check if it was right for Mrs M. But it still had to give her information  about the account 
benefits so that she understood what she was agreeing to.
I think RBS gave Mrs M some information about the Royalties Gold  account. For example,  
based on Mrs Ms recollections, I think its likely that the banking benefits provided by the 
Royalties Gold account were discussed  with her. I accept that RBS might  not have given 
Mrs M all of the information about the account benefits. But Ive not seen anything about  her 
circumstances at the time that makes  me think she wouldve been  put off from agreeing  to 
the Royalties Gold account, had she been given more information  about it. I say this 
particularly as it appears that the banking benefits  were likely to have been  the main  reason 
why Mrs M agreed to the Royalties Gold account.
So taking everything into account, I dont think RBS mis-sold the Royalties Gold account  to 
Mrs M. I appreciate that Mrs M may be disappointed  by this decision, but I hope I have been 
able to explain the reasons why I dont uphold it.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6482118