K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Lowell  Portfolio I Limited  is seeking repayment from him for a debt that 
he owed to a third party.
background
Mr I had a credit card account with a third party. The account was in arrears and Mr I was 
contacted about the debt by debt collection  agencies acting on behalf of the third party. The 
third party then sold the debt of £3,907.64 to Lowell  in November 2017. It contacted Mr I 
about the debt but he said that hed complained to the third party so it put the account on 
hold. Mr I complained to Lowell in March  2019  but wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. He also complained to this service about  the third party  but that 
complaint wasnt upheld.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Is complaint about Lowell should  be upheld.  He 
didnt think that Lowell  had done anything wrong  by purchasing the debt and he thought that 
it was reasonable  for it to have contacted Mr I about  repaying  the debt. And he didnt think  
that it was unreasonable following the twelve month period when collections were put on 
hold that it contacted him again.  So he didnt  think that Lowell had been unfair in the way 
that it contacted  Mr I about the debt.
Mr I has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that the third party shouldve  accepted his repayment offer of £5 each month but ignored it 
and that he provided  information to other debt collection  agencies that contacted  him about 
his debt. He also says that this process  has increased the amount that he owes and has 
resulted in him losing  a credit card account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I has made a separate complaint to this service about the third partys actions in 
connection with his debt. A final decision was issued on that complaint in May 2019  and his 
complaint wasnt upheld. Mr I then made this complaint about Lowell. But I can only consider 
the actions of Lowell after the debt was assigned to it  and not the actions of the third party.
The debt was assigned  to Lowell in November 2017 and it issued a notice of assignment  to 
Mr I the following month  which showed that the amount  that he owed was £3,907.64. Mr I 
has contacted  Lowell  since then about  the amount of the debt and it has put the account  on 
hold and asked  him how much  he could afford  to pay. But Ive seen no evidence  to show 
that Mr I has provided Lowell with any of the information that it had requested  from him or 
that hes made a repayment offer to it. 
I consider that the third party was entitled to assign Mr Is debt to Lowell and Ive seen no 
evidence to show that the assignment was handled incorrectly. The amount that Mr I owed 
to the third party at the time of the assignment  was £3,907.64 and Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the amount  of the debt that was assigned  to Lowell 
was incorrect.
Ref: DRN66333202I sympathise with Mr I for the issues that hes experienced. And if hes suffering from 
financial difficulties, Lowell Bank is required to respond to those  difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence to show that Lowell  has 
dealt with Mr I incorrectly  in connection  with the debt that he owed to the third party and that 
was assigned to Lowell. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Lowell to reduce the amount that is owed to it by Mr I or to 
take any other action  in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6633320