K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the quality of a car he financed through a conditional sale agreement
that was taken out with Close Brothers  Limited. He wants them  to cover the costs hes had
to pay for repairs.
background
Mr F took out a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers in March 2017  to finance the
purchase of a car. It was around  ten years old at the time,  had covered  around 67,000  miles
and the cash price was just under  £5,800.
In November 2017, Mr F says the car lost power  while he was driving   the engine light
came on and it broke down. Mr F says he took it to a mechanic, who confirmed the timing
chain had broken  and the engine was damaged beyond repair.
After Mr F complained to Close Brothers, an independent report was carried out and this
concluded that Close Brothers should cover the cost of replacing the timing chain kit. And in
their final response to Mr F, Close Brothers didnt uphold the complaint. Unhappy  with this
response, Mr F brought the complaint to us.
Our adjudicator disagreed with Close Brothers. She thought that the timing chain issues  had
been developing at the point of sale. And she also thought  Mr F had been consistent about
the fact he hadnt  heard  the rattling  noise that wouldve indicated the fault. As thats the
case, she thought Close  Brothers should  cover  all of Mr Fs costs and pay £150
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
When the complaint  came  to me, I didnt agree with our adjudicator.  I sent out my provisional 
decision on 13 September 2019 and gave both parties until 13 October 2019 to send in any 
further evidence.
Mr F has confirmed he disagrees with my provisional decision  and Ive carefully  
considered what  hes said, even if Ive not commented on every point. But this hasnt 
changed my decision  and Ive set out my reasoning in full again below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Fs complaint against Close Brothers.  I know Mr F feels  very strongly about his 
complaint  and I think hell be disappointed  by my decision. And Im aware of what hes paid 
out to repair  the car. But Ive explained  below why I think this is a fair answer  given all the 
circumstances.
The conditional sale agreement  in this case is a regulated consumer  credit  agreement.
As such,  this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. And as Close  Brothers are
providing the finance for the car under this agreement,  we can look into it against  them.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) is of particular relevance  to this complaint. It says
that under  a contract  to supply goods,  there is an implied term that the quality  of the goods
is satisfactory.
The quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person would
consider satisfactory, taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all the
Ref: DRN63408792other relevant circumstances.
So, in order for me to agree  that Close Brothers should be held responsible  for Mr Fs costs,
Id first have  to be satisfied that it was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.  As part of
this, Ill think about  what issues are likely to be inherent defects  and whats  reasonable to
consider as wear  and tear, given the age of the car, mileage covered and what Mr F paid for
it. And Ill also have to consider what,  if anything, has been  done to put things right so far.
Close Brothers supplied  Mr F with a car that was ten years old and had travelled  around
67,000 miles when it was supplied.  And the price of the car was considerably  lower  than it
would have been if it had been supplied new. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable
person would expect  that parts of the car might have  already suffered notable wear  and tear.
And theres  a greater  risk this car might need  repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car
which wasnt as road-worn when  it was supplied.
Both the garage  that initially looked at Mr Fs complaint and the independent  inspection
report conclude there was an issue with the timing chain. That doesnt seem  to be in dispute.
The independent report does say that the problem was probably developing at the point of
sale  but it also adds that the eventual failure  of the timing chain was due to the car
remaining in use. After all, Mr F had the car for around eight  months and covered around
2,500 miles at the point  of failure.
The report  also says that the fault shouldve been noticeable in the form of rattling noise. But
Mr F says he didnt  hear this  and as our investigator noted,  hes been consistent  in this
account.
Further, the independent report also concludes that: the timing chain has failed as a
consequence of in service wear  and deterioration  commensurate with the vehicles age and
recorded mileage.  So  in short  its also saying that the fault is down to wear  and tear
expected for a vehicle around  ten years old and having covered around 67,000 miles.
I think this is a bit confusing and the report couldve made clearer findings.
But looking  at the report overall, I think theres a stronger suggestion that the issues are
down to normally expected wear and tear, rather than present at the point of sale. The report
also doesnt suggest the dealership cover  all the costs  just the cost of the replacement
timing chain itself  which I wouldnt expect if they were concluding the dealership were at
fault.
The fact that Mr F didnt hear the expected rattling  that the timing  chain  fault wouldve
produced strengthens my thoughts that this issue wasnt present at the point of sale as well.
And while Mr F had only covered around  2,500  miles, he was still able to drive the car and
did so for eight months.
The independent report does point out that previous work appears to have been done on the
timing chain. And a similar conclusion was made by the garage Mr F initially took the car to.
But I dont think thats unreasonable  and given the overall mileage done and age of the
car, Id have  expected to see evidence of the car being worked on.
I have considered whether the report says enough to conclude  that this work wasnt carried
to a reasonable standard  or whether  theres  any suggestion that the dealership were
covering up a known  issue.  Mr F has also said he thinks this happened  and says a cover 
up mightve contributed  to him not hearing  any rattling noises  when he first had the car.
Ref: DRN63408793Unfortunately, the dealership doesnt have any records to show  any previous work. So Im 
relying on the report alone and comments from Mr F and his garage. But theres not enough 
here for me to conclude  that any previous repairs were not completed to a satisfactory  
standard  or that the dealership covered up a known issue with the timing chain.
So, all things considered,  I dont think the timing  chain  was in a broken or patched up state 
at the time of sale. Ive also considered whether the car was sufficiently durable. But 
considering all the circumstances  the cash price of the car, its age, the mileage covered at 
point of sale and subsequently covered by Mr F, the eight months he was able to 
successfully drive it  I dont think theres  enough  to suggest it wasnt durable. I dont think 
its unreasonable that things might go wrong  after eight months for a car of this age, price 
and overall mileage  even after considering Mr Fs relatively low mileage. And I wouldve
expected signs  for such a serious issue to have  appeared  much sooner if they were present
or developing at the point of sale.
The garage that fixed Mr Fs car told us that a timing chain should last for over 100,000 miles
 Mr Fs car had only covered around  70,000  at the point of the event. And the manufacturer
said the timing chain should last the lifetime  of the car. But as Ive said, Mr Fs car was ten
years old at the point  of sale  and these expectations are estimates and dependent  on
many other factors. So, I dont think this is enough  to say the car was of unsatisfactory
quality at the point of sale.
When taking on a second hand car  as opposed  to a brand new one  there is an increased
possibility of costly  repairs cropping  up sooner rather  than later. That is part of the risk of
buying an older car that has a history   and the average consumer would expect this
possibility. I do feel for Mr F in his situation   a lot has gone wrong with his car and it has
cost in a lot in repairs.  And while he had it for eight months, his mileage over this time was
relatively low. But considering all the key factors Ive already  mentioned  and taking into
account the relevant law, I dont think it would  be fair to say that Close  Brothers are at fault
here.
I understand Mr Fs comment that had he used his car more  when he initially had it that 
these issues wouldve come to light sooner   possibly indicating there was a fault developing 
at point of sale.  But he didnt and so we dont if this wouldve been the case  or if it wouldve 
made a difference. And all the evidence and circumstances Ive taken into consideration still 
suggests to me its more  likely a fault wasnt developing at the point of sale.
While Mr F has naturally  suffered  some distress and inconvenience from everything thats
happened, I also dont think I can blame  Close Brothers for this.
But they have  offered  to cover the cost of the replacement  timing chain  as recommended
by the independent  inspection. So Mr F might still wish to consider this offer  although I
know this isnt the solution he is after.
Ref: DRN63408794my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  against Close Brothers  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6340879