K820x#14complaint
Mr T1 and Mr T2 complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr T1 and Mr T2 took out a mortgage  in 1989. Mr T1 was the first borrower on the mortgage 
and it was his income  which supported the mortgage application. Mr T2 was named  on the 
mortgage application as the guarantor.  
At the same time, Mr T1 and Mr T2 were  sold a PPI policy which partially  covered their 
mortgage repayments if Mr T1 was unable to work because of an accident or sickness.  The 
policy cost £3.50  a month and gave a monthly benefit of £100.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr T1 and Mr T2 disagreed with 
the adjudicators  view,  so the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr T1 and Mr T2s case.  Having done  so, Im not 
upholding it for reasons  that Ill now explain.
Mr T1 and Mr T2 say that B&B didnt tell them that PPI was optional.  They  think B&B implied 
that they needed to take out the PPI policy to get the mortgage agreed.  But this sale took 
place some thirty years ago. And memories  of what was said in such  meetings do tend to 
fade over such long periods of time. 
So whilst Ive no reason  to doubt  that this is their honest recollection of what happened then, 
I dont think it would  be fair for me to conclude that B&B misled  them  in this way, based  only 
on Mr T1 and Mr T2s memories of this meeting. I need to decide what I think is most likely 
to have happened having considered all the evidence available to me.
B&B has provided a copy of Mr T1 and Mr T2s signed mortgage  application.  Theres  a 
section in this headed Select Payment Protection Insurance.  And I can see that the option  
of Accident & Sickness only cover has been  selected by ticking the appropriate box. I can 
also see that an amount  of monthly  benefit  of £100  has been chosen, with this cover for 
Mr T1 only and not Mr T2. 
I think the way that this section on the mortgage application is presented would have made it 
clear to Mr T1 and Mr T2 that the PPI was optional and not a requirement for the mortgage. 
It is, nevertheless, possible that the person they spoke to at B&B did mislead  them in the 
way Mr T1 and Mr T2 say. But, on balance,  I think its more  likely that Mr T1 and Mr T2 
actively decided to take out this cover, knowing they could choose  not to. But I can 
understand why they might not remember this now.
B&B says it didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mr T1 and Mr T2. And from what I know  
about B&Bs  normal sales practices  at around the time, I think  this is most likely to have 
Ref: DRN69094082been the case. This means  that B&B didnt need to ensure that the policy  was suitable for 
them. But it still needed  to ensure  that they were  given enough information to decide  
themselves if they wanted to take it out. I think its possible  that B&B could have  provided  
Mr T1 and Mr T2 with better information about the policy  than it did. But I dont think better  
information would have changed their minds about taking it. I say this because:
Mr T1 appears to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. Although Mr T1 was in his late fifties when the policy was taken 
out, he was still working at the time. And the signed  mortgage  application  shows  Mr T1 
as having a planned retirement age of 65. So it would seem that at the time of the sale 
he could have expected to benefit  from this cover for a reasonable period of time. In any 
case, as the premiums  were paid monthly, the policy  could be cancelled if it no longer 
met their needs.
If Mr T1 had been unable to work  because of an accident or sickness, it appears that he 
would have needed to rely solely on Mr T2 to make the monthly mortgage repayments.  
But he was the main borrower on the mortgage  and so the principal person legally 
responsible for making these payments. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment, 
where ones home is potentially at risk. In any case,  the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any other means  of paying  the mortgage  that might have been  available. So I 
still think that Mr T1 and Mr T2 would have valued the extra  security that the PPI policy 
gave them.
Ive no reason to think that the monthly premiums were  unaffordable for 
Mr T1 and Mr T2.
So I dont  think that Mr T1 and Mr T2 have lost out by anything that B&B may have done  
wrong when it sold them  this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bradford & Bingley Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T1 and Mr T2 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6909408