K822xcomplaint
Mr G has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland plc returned money to the sender of a 
payment made to buy bitcoins. This left him without  either the bitcoins or £10,000  hed 
received in payment. They also rejected his request to make  a £50,000 payment to buy 
bitcoins a couple of months  later.
background 
In December 2017 Mr G sold £10,000  worth of bitcoins and received payment into his RBS 
account. Within  a few days of the credit, the senders  bank (who  Ill call B) advised the 
payment was disputed  by Bs customer. Despite Mr G providing evidence to RBS that the 
money was his, RBS felt they had no choice  but to return it. They  did this in January 2018 
after firstly removing the money  from Mr Gs account.
In February 2018  Mr G wanted to make a CHAPS  payment for £50,000 to buy bitcoins. RBS 
wouldnt allow him to do this as they stated they wouldnt  permit a payment  request for 
cryptocurrency that exceeds the amount received into the account for benefit or wages. 
Mr G couldnt resolve  his concerns with RBS and brought a complaint  to the ombudsman 
service to cover both of these issues.
Our adjudicator at the time felt that RBS had done  nothing wrong. They  were  able to set their 
own guidelines  for what type of payments they would, or wouldnt, allow their customers  to 
make. He noted  that just shortly after this RBS changed its policy  to ensure their customers 
couldnt use an RBS credit card to buy cryptocurrency. He also agreed they were right to 
return the money to B.
Mr G disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 12 March 2021. I didnt  believe RBS had authority to 
return £10,000 to B so would now have to refund Mr G.
Mr G accepted this outcome. No response  was received from RBS.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion I did in my provisional  decision. As I 
received no dissenting comments, my findings follow  to explain why Ive reached the 
decision I have.
There are two aspects of this complaint and I consider both of these.
RBS sending £10,000 back to sender
As businesses know, in broad terms, where  were  satisfied the consumer is coming to the 
table with clean  hands (so, for example, is not the perpetrator of any type of scam), were 
Ref: DRN65875812likely to say the mandate (the account terms and conditions), Payment Services  Regulations 
and industry guidance, prevent the consumers bank from debiting their account.  
So, where the consumer is also the victim of a scam  or involved in a civil dispute, we dont 
think the business should be debiting  their account.  
Ive considered how this approach relates to Mr Gs complaint. Ive reviewed  the evidence  
presented to us by Mr G. This included screenshots related  to his original sale of bitcoins 
and includes  the evidence he also presented to RBS. 
Mr G received the funds  on 7 December. B notified  RBS on 14 December that their 
customer had been defrauded.  RBS went back to B to check on some aspects of this. On 
18 December they removed funds from Mr Gs account. After receipt of an indemnity from B 
for these  funds, £10,000 was returned  to B on 29 January 2018.
From what  Ive seen RBS accept the evidence showed Mr G was a genuine  party to a 
transaction selling  bitcoin  where most likely  he was defrauded (as was the party who sent 
the £10,000).  I say this because although RBS initially blocked Mr Gs account from further 
use, they removed these  blocks after hed provided  them with evidence  to show  hed been a 
genuine party to a bitcoin sale.
RBS told us it was considered that although  Mr Gs evidence  proved him to be genuine, 
there could  still be a victim of crime within the trail of the payment.
Their argument  for returning funds to B is that they had to honour Bs request to return  the 
funds, although  do not specify why. I suspect  this was because  they received an indemnity 
from B. I can see from their notes the money wasnt returned until this had been  received. 
However an indemnity  is just a promise between the two banks that the receiving bank will 
have protection  if they chose to send  the money  back. It doesnt  create  any obligation that 
they have to send the money  back.
In RBSs final response to Mr G, RBS provided no reasoning why theyd  returned  the funds, 
other than to say Mr Gs best way forward was to tackle the sender as they could do nothing  
further. Its certainly true that once theyd returned the funds to B, there was probably little 
they could do in discussion with B to get back any funds. However RBS could have 
considered whether they acted in line with the mandate they held with Mr G.
The banks mandate
The primary duty of a bank is to follow  their customers  instructions and make payments as 
instructed, in line with the mandate. The banks payment obligations only arise  if the 
payment instruction complies with the mandate. 
The mandate is usually the terms and conditions of an account. This is often the main factor 
to consider in these  cases. If there isnt a term which allows the bank to act in this way, then 
were satisfied they have  no basis by which to debit the consumers account. 
RBS provided us with a copy of the terms and conditions  that related to Mr Gs account.  
These date from June 2017  and were in force when RBS returned £10,000 to B on 
18 December 2017. Ive seen nothing within those terms and conditions which entitle  RBS to 
Ref: DRN65875813remove funds from the Mr Gs account in this way, or show the bank  acted in line with the 
mandate when  removing  the money  from the account.
Payment Services Regulations
The PSRs  require the payer  to give consent  to the execution of a payment transaction by 
employing the form and procedure  agreed  between them  and the bank. The payer  is the one 
who has to give consent, this cant be done by a third party.  If the payer doesnt give 
consent, the transaction will be considered  as unauthorised. 
So, where the consumer (payer)  hasnt given consent for the business to withdraw the funds 
from their account to send  back to another bank, I can consider this transaction as 
unauthorised. 
RBS hasnt shown  that Mr G gave consent  which would allow them  to return £10,000 to B. In 
fact Mr Gs testimony is that RBS didnt  even confirm to him this was what  they were  doing, 
despite him having thought hed shown the funds were his.
industry guidance and best practice
The Authorised Push Payment (APP) Voluntary Best Practice  Standards produced  by 
UK Finance sets out standards for sending and receiving firms to follow when processing a 
claim for an APP scam. This guidance  came  into force from October  2017.  I believe this just 
sought to codify  what was already good  industry practice at the time. 
This guidance only applies to APP scams. But from what I know  of Bs customer,  I believe 
this would fit his situation where  he believed he was helping out a friend and both authorised 
and made  the transfer to Mr G. 
Ive reviewed the principles within the best practice.
These dictate that when  the receiving bank   RBS in this case   is put on notice that their 
customer may have perpetrated  an APP scam, it should investigate whether their customer 
is involved and has received the funds  fraudulently.  If the consumer can show  otherwise and 
disputes the claim, the receiving bank  is under  no obligations to return the funds to the 
sending bank. Ive already  referred  above  to RBSs evidence where they confirm  they 
believe Mr G was genuine. This means  I see no reason under these standards that RBS had 
to send funds  back to B.
It has long been  a factor in other industry  payments-related best practice that mechanisms to 
return funds are not to be used where fraud, as in this case,  was the issue.
Having considered all the issues relating to RBSs return of £10,000  to B, I believe this was 
done without Mr Gs consent. RBS will therefore  need to repay this money to him and add 
8% simple  interest from 18 December 2017.
RBS refusing to allow Mr G to make  £50,000  CHAPS payment to buy bitcoin
RBS has told us that no payment request for cryptocurrency that exceeds the amount 
received into the account for benefit or wages would be accepted. Ive seen nothing  in their 
terms and conditions which specify this. Nor does this seem to take into account those 
customers where no regular salary (or benefits) are received.
Ref: DRN65875814In any case at the time Mr G wanted  to make  this payment, his current account had 
considerable funds well in excess of the amount of the payment he wished to make.
RBS has said this refusal is in line with the decision they made from February 2018 to 
restrict the use of its credit  and charge cards across Retail, Business Banking, Commercial  
& Corporate franchises to purchase cryptocurrency. RBS has given us the notice they 
shared about  this aspect which is dated  16 February  2018.  
RBS rejected Mr Gs request for a CHAPS payment on 5 February 2018 which  pre-dates  this 
policy change.
Some of the other points  RBS has made  are relevant I believe. It was felt by RBS  along  
with other  banks at the time  that customers who were trading cryptocurrency were subject 
to an unregulated and volatile market.  Its certainly true that customers  whod received funds 
from the sale of bitcoins were more  at risk of the person they were  trading with registering 
complaints about  non-receipt  of funds or being  victims of fraud.  This is evidenced  by what  
had happened  to Mr G in December 2017.
Im also aware that RBS had noted  the recent growth in transactions  on Mr Gs account.  
Theyd already  made decisions to block his account  in line with the terms and conditions.  I 
believe they were  starting to be concerned  about  the value and volume of cryptocurrency 
transactions. If a number  of people Mr G had traded with all decided to simultaneously query 
payments sent to him, then this may have  caused him issues. RBS would have needed to 
ensure Mr G had suitable funds available.
This situation is what RBS characterised to us as being outside our risk appetite. Theyve  
also drawn attention  to the fact Mr G was using  his personal bank account for trading bitcoin 
which it could be argued amount  to using it for business purposes.  So I believe its quite 
likely theyd have been considering taking  further  action to block  transactions (which they did 
later in 2018). 
As was stated by our adjudicator in his view banks  are required to undertake ongoing  due 
diligence of accounts they operate.  This is both to ensure adherence to legal and regulatory 
requirements and to help protect customers and the bank against loss .
I believe taking this all into account RBSs action is in line with Mr Gs terms and conditions  
at the time. These stated:
2.2.4 We may delay or refuse to act if;
(a) we reasonably believe  that you did not give the instruction:
(b) we reasonably suspect fraud or it is prudent in the interests  of crime prevention or compliance  with sanctions  laws:
(c) your instructions are unclear, incomplete or not in the required form:
(d) complying would be contrary to law. regulation  or any applicable  code:
(e) it would cause you to exceed  any limit or restriction which  applies to your account: or
(f) the payment  is not in Sterling, unless we agree otherwise.
Therefore I believe this allows RBS to refuse  to make a payment  as Mr G requested.
I appreciate that Mr G was given  confusing information from RBS about why theyd refused 
to action his payment request. Im sure this cant have helped. However I am satisfied 
theyve not done anything  wrong overall.
Ref: DRN65875815my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc to:
Repay £10,000  to Mr G; and
Add 8% simple interest a year from 18 December 2017 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6587581