K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) should not have
provided him with loans,  an overdraft and a credit  card over a number of years.
background
On 12 February 2021, I issued a provisional  decision upholding this complaint. I attach a 
copy of that provisional  decision below  both for background information and to 
supplement my reasons in this final decision. I would ask the parties to re-read the 
provisional decision before proceeding further.
I invited both parties to reply to my provisional  decision. Mr C accepted my provisional 
decision. Halifax did not and said the following,  in summary:
The regulations  I quoted around creditworthiness and affordability  checks  dont 
include any requirements or guidance around a bank controlling or monitoring a 
customers discretionary spend on lawful activity  like gambling.
For the overdrafts and loans, they had clearly shown that Mr C was able to make  
repayments in accordance  with CONC 5.5A.13 which states  that the customer  is able 
to make their repayments out of their income  as they become due.
It is not reasonable nor proportionate to expect Halifax to perform  a manual review of 
a customers bank  statements prior to the granting  of credit.  Dictating to a customer  
how they can spend their discretionary  income is not something lenders are expected 
to do unless the activity is unlawful or illegal  which gambling  is not. In the case of Mr 
C, his personal circumstances at the time of the lending meant he had very few non-
discretionary outgoings and plenty of disposable income  to meet  the lending  
repayments.  
Mr C repaid all three loans which demonstrates  they were  affordable  and paid the 
second loan back  after only three  months into the 24-month term
For the credit card, the amount of lending  extended to Mr C was relatively small and 
affordable to him based on his disposable income. Their assumptions of Mr Cs 
monthly expenditure were reasonable, and they took into account all of his existing 
unsecured credit  commitments. 
Mr C has not made any payments towards his credit  card debt in the last 12 months  
despite a healthy  current account  credit balance 
Theyve seen on Mr Cs bank statements that he is still gambling and are concerned 
that this continues to be an issue for him. My provisional direction to award money 
and to remove adverse information from Mr Cs credit file increases  the chance  of 
him borrowing  further which could lead to adverse outcomes for him and other 
potential further  lenders.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments in light of Halifaxs  further 
submissions, as briefly  summarised above, to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld.  
My reasons  are set out in my provisional decision  and as follows.
Halifax is quite correct  to say that there  is nothing within any of the rules,  regulations  and 
guidance I referred to at length in my provisional decision about an obligation imposed on 
Ref: DRN68240332them to control what  a customer is spending their money on. And they point out that 
gambling is a legal activity.
I have not though at any point sought  to say there was such  a specific obligation. Nor have I 
sought to say that gambling is anything other than a legal pastime. However, Halifax  did 
have an obligation  to assess whether providing  credit and further  credit  to Mr C was a 
responsible thing to do. The rules around  lending are quite clear  about that. And that any 
such decisions should take into account  whether Mr C would have suffered financial (or 
further financial) difficulties or any adverse  consequences. Advancing  credit  to a customer  
who, with a cursory  examination  of their financial situation as an existing customer, shows  
that they were  having such severe  problems  with gambling is not responsible  lending.  
Halifax has said that there was nothing in the rules  and regulations I quoted  that says they 
should have performed a manual review of Mr Cs bank statements. But the point here is 
that Halifax had clear, unambiguous  information about their own customer to hand, which I 
consider showed   for the reasons detailed in my provisional decision - that the severity of 
Mr Cs gambling problem  was such as to render his circumstances exceptional.  And Halifax  
isnt able to provide me with the information  they did use. I dont consider it to be realistic to 
expect a lender,  whose  customer  is using a bank account almost exclusively to gamble and 
to such a severe degree, to simply  continue to grant more  and more  credit.  This wasnt  Mr 
Cs own money he was spending; it was money he had to repay  to Halifax.  
And as I mentioned  in my provisional decision,  there were enough signs that Mr C was 
struggling to keep things under control, for example he was going  over his overdraft limit on 
multiple occasions. I dont  see how Halifax can in effect say Mr C would have been perfectly 
able to repay the credit bearing  in mind the sheer  number and volume of gambling  
transactions that were happening over such a long period of time.  I certainly  dont see that 
Mr C was able to use any disposable income to repay this when he was gambling so 
significantly.
Halifax has also repeated  its view that Mr C repaid the three loans that he took out and note 
in particular that he repaid the second  loan very shortly after taking  this out. The obligation 
on ensuring that a customer  can repay credit (which  are the loans in this instance), is that 
the customer is able to do so sustainably without  adverse consequences. Simply repaying  
the credit  isnt enough to show this without context.  For example, someone  may borrow from 
somewhere else to repay existing credit and doing so could undoubtedly  lead to someones 
financial position potentially worsening. By simply mentioning that Mr C repaid the loans 
ignores the multiple times he missed loan repayments and ignores the information  about the 
extent of Mr Cs gambling that I have  said Halifax  should have been aware of.
With the credit card, given Mr Cs history of account management and what Halifax  ought to 
have known about how he was using the credit, I dont  agree that simply assuming what his 
expenditure was or determining what his credit  commitments  were from a snapshot from a 
credit file was proportionate. A much  more robust  check  should  have  taken place. Even 
simply determining Mr Cs recent history with credit would have shown  that he took out 60 
short term or payday loans over the previous two years because his gambling addiction had 
become completely uncontrollable and that these loans were going into his bank account 
with Halifax. That cant be indicative of someone who was able to sustainably  take on more 
credit. 
I would also like to reiterate the point I made in my provisional decision. I accept that Mr C 
has some  responsibility because he applied for the credit. However, I do consider the 
Ref: DRN68240333circumstances surrounding  this complaint to be exceptional, given the clear  signs,  from the 
information readily available to Halifax, of the severity of Mr Cs gambling problem. Im 
disappointed to see that Halifax persists in pointing out that gambling isnt illegal, unlawful 
and is a legitimate  activity. That isnt in dispute.  Halifax though  is simply failing to understand 
that there  were clear and obvious  signs that, with a reasonable, proportionate assessment of 
Mr Cs situation at the appropriate times as I have  mentioned in my provisional decision,  
would have shown  them that Mr Cs gambling wasnt something  he could control and wasnt 
something that he was doing purely for his entertainment. It simply doesnt follow that Halifax 
had no obligation  to intervene by choosing not to lend to him any further.  
So I am satisfied that my proposed direction  to Halifax as outlined  in my provisional decision 
is one that I will now direct  them  to undertake. This is as follows:  
The overdraft limit increases
rework Mr Cs current account balance so that all interest, fees and charges
applied to it from November 2011 to June  2017  are removed;
remove all adverse  entries from Mr Cs credit file from November 2011 to June 2017.
The loans
refund  all interest and charges;
refund  the capital  amounts of each loan; and
remove all adverse  information from Mr Cs credit file
The credit card
take steps to buy back the debt from the debt purchaser;
rework the credit card balance to refund all interest, cash  fees and charges to Mr
C. It should also refund him any capital that he borrowed using the card;
remove all adverse  information from Mr Cs credit file.
I am mindful  that Mr Cs situation would have had a serious impact  on his wellbeing  and that
Halifax facilitated that by granting him access to credit  when  it should  not have done.  I have
taken this into account and feel that my direction to Halifax as set out above  addresses this.
I note that Halifax  has pointed out that Mr C has chosen not to repay his outstanding credit  
card balance for some time. That has no bearing on my finding that Halifax should not have 
granted him the credit in the first place or on my direction to Halifax.  
And I also note that Halifax  is concerned that Mr C is still gambling  and that my direction will 
potentially adversely affect him and also potentially  allow Mr C to continue to borrow for that 
purpose. Mr C has told me that he has his gambling  under control  even though he is still 
gambling here and there. 
I am not satisfied from what  Mr C has told me that making this award will lead to him 
suffering potential detriment. And it is in my view the fair and reasonable award here 
considering the extent  of Halifaxs failings in this case. It should  also be noted that it will be 
Ref: DRN68240334entirely down to each  individual  lender to ascertain  what  checks they want  to do should Mr C 
apply for more credit. The applications  for each credit application will remain on Mr Cs file 
so this will be of potential  relevance for any future  lender. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Bank of Scotland plc to take the 
action Ive described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 May 2021.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax (Halifax)  should  not have
provided him with loans,  an overdraft and a credit card over a number of years.
Background
In October 2018 Mr C complained to Halifax that it should not have agreed to provide him
with an overdraft, subsequent limit increases, and further credit facilities, as follows:
September 2011 - initial overdraft with a limit of £1,000
October 2011  limit increased to £1,600
November 2011  limit increased to £2,300
December 2011  limit increased to £2,700
February 2012  limit increased to £3,600
September 2012  £1,400 loan for 12 months
Ref: DRN68240335November 2013 - £1,000 loan for 24 months
September 2014 - £1,000  loan for 24 months
September 2016 - £1,500  credit card limit
He said this lending  was unaffordable and that if Halifax had looked  more  carefully into
his financial situation it would  have  realised  he was using the money  to feed his
gambling addiction.
In its response Halifax said it wouldnt consider Mr Cs complaint about  the overdraft  as the
decision to grant this had been made more than six years ago and Mr C had not raised the
complaint within that time or within three years of becoming aware  he could complain.
With respect to the three loans and credit card, Halifax summarised the information it had
considered in approving these and said it was satisfied it hadnt done  anything wrong. But
Halifax said it was sympathetic to the problems Mr C had only now brought  to their attention.
And so it agreed  to reimburse the unplanned overdraft fees of £130 incurred  by Mr C on his
current account over the last six years, and late payment  and over limit fees of £204 charged
to his credit card.
Mr C was dissatisfied  with the banks reply  and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator first said to Mr C that under the rules that determine  the complaints
we can consider, we wouldnt be able to look into his concerns about  his overdraft because
he had complained too late. But she said she would  investigate the loans and credit card.
There then followed  a significant  exchange  of correspondence between our investigator and
the bank and Mr C, which resulted in her producing  two views. In the first, and in summary,
she said that she was satisfied that the loans  and credit card were affordable  at the time they
were agreed by Halifax.
Mr C disagreed and provided reasons why, if Halifax had been a responsible lender,  it would
have realised that his indebtedness was increasing  on each occasion and that he was using
the borrowing to feed his gambling addiction. Our investigator considered  Mr Cs response
and revised  her view on the lending  decision of the credit card. Essentially, she said that
Halifax should  have  realised that Mr Cs monthly expenditure exceeded  his income and the
bank should therefore not have agreed any additional credit facilities.
Halifax disagreed with this view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In doing  so it set
out why it considered Mr Cs credit  card had been affordable at the time he applied for it and
gave an overview of the factors it had taken  into account in reaching that decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Mr C has asked us to look at Halifaxs decision to grant  him the overdraft and the three
subsequent limit increases. He has also asked us to look at the decision to lend him the
three loans  and the credit  card facility.
One of our ombudsmen has issued a decision  in which  he said that Mr C had complained
about the lending  of the initial overdraft and the limit increases in time for our service to
consider this. So, I will not be revisiting that particular  point here.
I will therefore be considering Halifaxs decision  to grant Mr C the overdraft and its decision
to agree to increase the overdraft limit on each  occasion.  I will also be considering Halifaxs
decision to grant Mr C the three  loans and the credit card.
Ref: DRN68240336It will be useful at this point  to explain the rules and guidelines that were  in place for these
lending decisions.
The regulatory framework
Regulation by the Office  of Fair Trading  (up to 31 March  2014)
In 2011, which is the start of the period of time Mr C has asked us to look at, Halifax  held a
standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT), which permitted it to carry out
consumer credit  activities.
Section 25(2)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider
when deciding  whether to grant a consumer  credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1) In determining whether  an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this
section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant  including
(amongst other things) 
a. the applicants  skills, knowledge and experience  in relation to consumer credit
businesses, consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  businesses;
b. such  skills, knowledge and experience of other persons who the applicant
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under
the licence;
c. practices and procedures  that the applicant proposes to implement  in
connection with any such business;
d. evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicants
employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, where  the applicant is a body
corporate, any person  appearing to the OFT to be a controller of the body corporate or an
associate of any such person, has
a. committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty or violence;
b. contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it
relates to the consumer credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or
other transactions with individuals;
c. contravened any provision  in force in an EEA State which corresponds to a
provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
d. practised discrimination  on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national
origins in, or in connection  with, the carrying on of any business; or
e. engaged in business practices  appearing to the OFT to be deceitful or
oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful  or not) [my
emphasis].
Ref: DRN68240337Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which  the OFT may consider
to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include practices  in the carrying
on of a consumer credit business that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce clear guidance on the test for irresponsible
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. And so it issued
its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG).
So, I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome
on Mr Cs complaint, for the lending  decisions that were made during the period where  the
ILG was applicable.
The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and it said:
The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses
and consumer  representatives as to the business practices  that the Office of Fair Trading
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section
25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It indicates types  of deceitful or oppressive  or
otherwise unfair or improper business practices which, if engaged in by a consumer credit
business, could call into consideration its fitness to hold a consumer credit licence. Whilst
this guidance represents the OFTs view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to
represent an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which might constitute irresponsible
lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general  principles of fair business practice.
Section 2.1 says:
In the OFTs view there are a number of overarching principles  of consumer  protection  and
fair business practice which apply to all consumer credit  lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms,  creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when  advertising, selling, or seeking
to enforce a credit agreement
make a reasonable  assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet
repayments in a sustainable  manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make
an informed choice
monitor the borrowers repayment record during the course of the agreement,
offering assistance where borrowers  appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience  difficulties.
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things,  it says:
In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment  of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products
that are clearly unsuitable  for them,  subjected to high pressure selling, aggressive  or
oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion,  or conduct which  is deceitful, oppressive,
unfair or improper,  whether  unlawful or not.
Ref: DRN68240338Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current  indebtedness, poor
credit history,  or by reason  of age or health, or disability,  or for any other reason, should, in
particular, not be targeted or exploited.
Section 4 of the guidance is concerned with the assessment  of affordability that lenders were
required to carry out before granting credit, and details the following:
all assessments of affordability should involve  a consideration of the potential for the credit
commitment to adversely impact on the borrowers  financial situation, taking account  of
information that the creditor  is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and
scope of any assessment of affordability,  in any particular  circumstance, should  be
dependent upon - and proportionate to - a number  of factors.
Assessing affordability,  in the context  of this guidance, is a borrower-focussed test which
involves a creditor assessing  a borrowers  ability  to undertake a specific credit commitment,
or specific additional  credit commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower
incurring (further) financial difficulties and/or experiencing adverse consequences.
Section 4.2 explains how a creditor should assess significantly increasing someones access
to credit.
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay  the credit in question. We
consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or
significantly increasing  the credit limit under an agreement for running account credit,
creditors should take reasonable steps to assess a borrowers likely  ability to be able to meet
repayments under the credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner.
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific  irresponsible lending  practices relating to lender
behaviour once credit  has been provided. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory
practice where a business  is failing  to monitor  a borrowers repayment record.
Section 6.2 goes on to say:
The OFT considers  that creditors should take appropriate action, including  notifying the
borrower of the potential  risk of an escalating  debt,  and signposting the borrower to not-for-profit 
providers of free independent debt advice, when/if there are signs  of apparent/possible
repayment difficulties   for example, a borrower  failing to make  minimum required payments
or making a number  of consecutive small/minimum repayments or a borrower  seeking to
make repayments on a credit card account using another credit card.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Halifax provided Mr C with one loan and a credit card after regulation  of consumer credit
activities had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  on 1 April
2014. Halifax was authorised by the FCA at this time, so it was subject to the FCAs  rules  in
respect of consumer credit  activities from 1 April 2014.
The FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised
firms are required to comply with.
Ref: DRN68240339PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here
is PRIN 2.1.1  R (6) which  says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them  fairly.
The Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically  when carrying out credit related
regulated activities.  CONC also replaced the requirements set out in Section 55B. Bearing in
mind the complaint before me, I think the most relevant sections of CONC here are CONC 1
which sets out guidance  in relation to financial difficulties;  CONC 5 which  sets out a firms
obligations in relation  to responsible lending;  and CONC 6 which sets out a firms obligations
after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
CONC 1.3G provides  guidance on financial  difficulty. It says:
In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation  to a rule), the following matters, among
others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware,  may indicate that
a customer is in financial difficulties:
1. consecutively failing to meet minimum  repayments in relation to a credit card or store
card;
2. adverse accurate  entries  on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
3. outstanding county court judgments  for non-payment of debt;
4. inability to meet repayments out of disposable income  or at all, for example, where
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility  bills), the customer
having to borrow further to repay  existing  debts,  or the customer  only being  able to
meet repayments of debts by the disposal  of assets or security;
5. consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
6. agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
7. evidence of discussions  with a firm (including  a not-for-profit debt advice  body) with a
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to
seeking debt counselling
CONC 5 sets out the rules  and guidance in relation to responsible  lending and CONC 6
sets out the rules and guidance in relation  to post contractual  requirements.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment  between the OFTs Irresponsible Lending
Guidance and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC  6. The FCAs CONC rules  specifically
note and refer back to sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many
occasions.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a
consumer credit  of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the
commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact  the customers
financial situation as well as the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due
over the life of the regulated  credit agreement.
Ref: DRN682403310CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in
mind when considering its obligations under CONC  5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm
should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for
example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the customer.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge  for credit  relative to the customers financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when
thinking about  affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment
or the assessment required by CONC  5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account  more  than
assessing the customers  ability to repay the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says: The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should  include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the
customers ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable
manner without  the customer incurring financial  difficulties or experiencing significant
adverse consequences..
I will also set out the relevant sections of CONC 6.
CONC 6.7.2  R states:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there
are signs of actual or possible repayment  difficulties.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.3  G states:
The action referred to in CONC  6.7.2  R should  generally include:
(1) notifying the customer  of the risk of escalating  debt, additional interest or charges and of
potential financial  difficulties;  and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact  details for not-for-profit  debt advice  bodies.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box)  of ILG]
Other relevant publications
The ILG and CONC  set out the regulatory framework  that firms carrying out consumer  credit
activities have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard  for firms. Im also
required to take into account  any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and,
where appropriate,  what  I consider to have been good industry practice.
Halifax was a subscriber to the Lending Standard Boards Lending Code in place from
November 2009 and currently subscribes  to the Standards of Lending Practice  which
replaced it in July 2016.
The Lending Code
Section 4 of the Lending Code is concerned  with credit assessments. It says:
Personal customers
50. Before lending any money, granting or increasing  an overdraft or other borrowing,
subscribers should assess whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable
Ref: DRN682403311manner. They should do this by considering the potential for the borrowing to adversely
impact the customers  financial situation, information from CRAs, including existing financial
commitments where  provided, as well as the following,  as appropriate:
 The type and amount of credit being sought;
 How the customer has handled their finances in the past;
 Any known future financial  commitments of the customer;
 Any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have a
significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
 Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber);
 The customers declared  income;
 Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and
 Any security  provided.
51. Subscribers  should take a view on which  of the above factors it is appropriate to consider
in any particular circumstance  dependent on, for example, the type and amount  of credit
being sought and the potential risks to the borrower.
52. Assessment may also include other  checks  that have not been  listed above.
53. The requirement to consider information from CRAs does  not apply in specialist
customer segments  such as private banking  where  use of CRA  data may not be appropriate.
54. Where income  is one of the factors considered when  assessing ability  to repay a
personal loan and the loan is agreed only if the income of another  person  is taken into
account, normally the loan should be provided  on a joint and several basis. However  there may be 
circumstances when it is appropriate to provide a loan on a sole basis.
55. Subscribers  should ensure they are familiar with the requirements of the Code Sponsors
Guide to Credit Scoring  and the explanations that need to be given to customers if credit
scoring is used.
56. If a lending  application  is declined following credit assessment, the subscriber  should
explain the main reason why if asked by the customer. If the decline is as a result  of
information obtained from a CRA  search,  the subscriber should provide the customer with
contact details  for the CRA.
The Standards of Lending Practice
The standards  relating  to assessing the affordability of credit are set out in the Product Sale
section of the Standards  of Lending Practice. The relevant section says:
5. Before providing  any form of credit, granting or increasing an overdraft  or other
borrowing, Firms should assess, from the information available to the Firm at the time,
whether the customer  will be able to repay it in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulty or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  [CONC  5]
There is also a section  on Money  Management  and paragraph 3 of this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the
customer is not exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate
support.
The initial overdraft limit and subsequent limit increases
Its not entirely clear  when each lending decision was specifically made by Halifax. They
have said there is very little they can send us in relation to this. That isnt altogether
Ref: DRN682403312surprising due to the passage of time. But, looking at Mr Cs bank account  statements, it
seems that Halifax granted him an initial  overdraft with a limit of £1,000 in September 2011.
And that they increased the limit to £1,600  in October 2011, to £2,300 in November 2011,  to
£2,700 in December  2011 and finally  to £3,600 in February 2012.
Halifax isnt able to give us details of each application, so I dont know what information it
asked Mr C for or what information it considered before  agreeing  to grant each line of credit.
Having considered  the matter, I see no reason why Halifax shouldnt have decided  to grant
Mr C the initial overdraft  of £1,000. It appears that Mr C was overdrawn around that time
without any limit which presumably was the reason why he applied  for one. His account
statements show that he was around £700 overdrawn at this point. However, I dont think 
Halifax would have assumed Mr C had a problem with gambling or that any overdraft would
have been used for that purpose. Mr C had a weekly wage of around £300 coming into his
account and Halifax could quite reasonably have assumed that the overdraft would  have
been used for Mr C to help balance  his finances for a period  of time.
Mr C then applied for an increase of £600  to his overdraft  the following month.  Halifax would
have been able to see how he was managing his account before deciding whether  to agree
to this.
Having looked at the bank  statements, my feeling is that while there were a number of
potentially concerning signs, in that Mr C appears to have predominantly been using his
account for gambling, it seems he was keeping within  his overdraft  limit. So, I wouldnt
necessarily have expected Halifax to start having concerns about  this at that time.  I also note
that the limit increase happened within  a few weeks of the initial overdraft  being granted  so I
dont necessarily think it could  be reasonably assumed that this pattern of spending would
have been replicated from month to month.
I think  the position  changes though when Mr C applied  for a further overdraft  limit increase in
November 2011. At this point, this was over double the amount of credit from the original
application. And I think there were enough  signs that Mr C was beginning to rely on credit to
use almost  exclusively  on gambling. His bank statements  certainly show that he was
essentially gambling  up to his limit by that time. And there were other worrying  signs.  For
example, Mr C had gambling winnings of around £4,000 come into his account in late
October 2011 which were all re-spent on gambling  within  a day. So, I think  Halifax should
have given closer scrutiny  to this.
Mr C was of course in theory required to repay the overdraft limit back  to Halifax. If, as the
bank statements show, he was using the account  to gamble up to the limit, his ability  to
repay the overdraft would  have been in serious  doubt. His monthly income at the time would
certainly not have sustained this. So, the time Mr C applied for the next limit increase, there
were enough signs to show  that he was relying  on credit to gamble and that increasing the
limit would have likely  led to Mr C suffering  financial  detriment.
Mr Cs bank statements  then show a pattern much like how Ive previously described.
However, after the limit of £2,300  was granted, he started going  over his overdraft limit on
several occasions  and this was in fact repeated  after hed been granted  further increases to
£2,700 and £3,600.  And the pattern of using his account almost exclusively for gambling  is
repeated with any winnings being used again for gambling almost immediately.  For example,
Mr C had some  significant  winnings in July 2012 and these had been used for gambling
within a week.
So, bearing  in mind  Halifaxs  obligations under the regulations and guidelines at the time, I
do not think they gave suitable and appropriate scrutiny to Mr Cs financial situation or his
account management by the time he applied  for the limit increase to £2,300 in November
2011 or the subsequent two limit increases.  I think it quite clear at this time that the decision
Ref: DRN682403313to grant these to Mr C would have very likely had adverse consequences for him and his
ability to sustainably repay what hed in effect  borrowed from Halifax. And I should  point out
that this wasnt Mr Cs own money he was using to gamble, this was money  hed borrowed
from Halifax that would need to potentially  be repaid at reasonably short notice.
My provisional  conclusion is that Halifax  should not have granted the overdraft  limit
increases from November  2011 onwards.
The loans
Mr C has said that he applied  for the first loan of £1,400  in September  2012 because  Halifax
declined his overdraft limit increase  application  at that time. Its not clear why this was
declined however  what  is clear is Halifax approving the loan application.
Halifax says that it doesnt have any information about the loan application, or indeed the
subsequent loans of £1,000 in November  2013 and September 2014.  It seems that Halifax
asked for Mr Cs income although Mr C doesnt  appear to recall what was asked of him.
However, the income information, if asked, is missing from Halifaxs records. Halifax  says
that they would have taken  this into account  at each loan application along  with using credit scoring 
using credit reference  agency data. And they say this included Mr Cs historic
account data and any that were in default.
Halifax then decided whether to approve or decline  the application or ask Mr C for more
information if they thought it appropriate. It would appear that Halifax  approved Mr Cs
application for the first loan without the need for further information
As Ive mentioned, Halifax isnt able to tell us what information they saw. However, its
abundantly clear that they had access to Mr Cs account statements and knowledge  of his
account management at that time.  While  Halifax  has said they dont analyse  customers
account statements on a micro-managed transactional basis, that was a decision and choice
for Halifax. It still had an obligation to ensure  that it lent responsibly by carrying  out a
borrower-focussed assessment of affordability, taking into account what they knew about Mr
Cs circumstances and what it should have known, given the information available.
By the time Mr C had applied for the loan of £1,000 he had gone over his overdraft  limit on
several occasions  in the preceding months, and the account was being used almost solely
for gambling. So, Halifax had information available  to them which should have been
reviewed and should  have formed part of its lending  decision.
As Ive provisionally decided  that Halifax  shouldnt have granted the overdraft  limit increases
from November 2011 onwards, it follows  that I find granting Mr C access to a further £1,400
of credit via a loan was also irresponsible. Particularly as I think it was foreseeable that this
would be used by Mr C for gambling.  I think the information on Mr Cs bank statements and
his pattern of applying for further credit was enough to make  that decision. And this initial
application came after Mr C had been turned down for a further increase to his overdraft limit
of £3,600.
Mr C then applied for a second loan in November 2013 for £1,000.  And by this time,  Halifax
not only had information about Mr Cs account management available  to them,  they also had
information about Mr Cs management of his first loan to hand.
Mr Cs bank statements  again  show  much the same pattern of spending as before. The
account is almost exclusively used for gambling. And Mr C was evidently  struggling to keep
this under control. I can that Mr C went over his overdraft limit several times leading up to
the second loan and that hed incurred unplanned overdraft fees for most of the six months
Ref: DRN682403314leading up to this.
Not only that, Mr Cs direct  debit payments for the first loan were returned  unpaid in May
2013, July 2013 and August 2013. I think this should have  alerted Halifax that Mr C was very
much struggling  to meet this commitment. As Ive set out above, the ILG mentioned that an
example of irresponsible lending  would  be where a creditor failed to monitor a borrowers
repayment record.
I think  in this case Halifax  failed to do this. And this, along  with Mr Cs evident issues with
how his current account  was being managed, should have led to them  decline Mr Cs
application.
Mr C then applied for a third loan with Halifax in September 2014  for a further £1,000.  And,
again, a repeat pattern occurred  in the months leading  up to this application. Mr C was using
the account for excessive gambling and went over his overdraft limit in February  2014.  I note
he received large sums  of money in winnings  around this time,  totalling nearly £10,000 but
he was back in his overdraft again within a few days and reached his limit again in early
March.
Mr C also had the first payment for his second loan returned and this happened  again in
January 2014 and February 2014.
I also note other concerning signs of Mr Cs situation at that time.  It appears that Mr C lost
his job in February  2014  as he started receiving around £150 a week in Jobseekers
Allowance. He then received what presumably was a severance payment  of £4,500 from his
previous employer  in July 2014  which took his account  back into credit. However, Mr C was
then back up to his £3,600 overdraft limit within four days.
In my view,  there were  clearly enough signs at the time of the third loan application for
Halifax to have declined it. Its indisputable that Mr C couldnt meet  his existing commitments
without great difficulty and his current account again showed excessive and uncontrollable
gambling. For these reasons, I do not agree that it was responsible for Halifax to agree Mr
Cs third loan application.
So, to conclude, I provisionally  find that Halifax should not have agreed to provide Mr C the
three loans.
The credit  card
Mr C applied to Halifax for a credit card in September 2016. Halifax asked  Mr C for his
income which he said was £27,000 gross each year. Halifax then worked out Mr Cs current
monthly credit commitments  to be £1,178 which they took from internal  and external agency
data.
Halifax then determined assumed living costs for Mr C of £300 each month, which they
calculated meant Mr C was left with a disposable monthly  income  of £172. Halifax  agreed to
the credit card application and set the card with a limit of £1,500.
Im not entirely  sure how Halifax worked  out Mr Cs monthly commitments. However, Mr C
did give his gross  annual salary and it was reasonable for Halifax  to assume  what  this
equated to each month,  to compare with the information and data they had either  gleaned  or
assumed.
However, by this time, and bearing in mind Mr Cs history of account and loan management
with Halifax,  it would at the very least  have  been prudent to have established in rather more
detail what Mr Cs credit  history was and his appetite for credit.  I accept that the credit card
application was made some two years after his third loan was granted. However, I think
Ref: DRN682403315bearing in mind Mr Cs history, it would have been proportionate  for Halifax to have reviewed
his recent credit history  in more detail  as well as taking into consideration his previous
account management.
Ive looked at Mr Cs credit  file and can see that he took out nearly 60 payday/short term
loans from December 2014 to September 2016 and that these were not only taken out in
consecutive months all the way through, but also on a number of occasions Mr C took out
several of these loans each month.
So, when Mr C had applied for the credit  card, he had an unbroken pattern  of high cost short
term borrowing  over two years. His credit  file also shows that he had taken out two separate
credit cards with other businesses from July 2015.
Ive seen that all of the high cost short  term loans were paid into, and were being paid out of,
Mr Cs current  account with Halifax. So, not only could Halifax  have seen the history  of Mr
Cs dependence on short-term loans  from his credit file, even a cursory look at his bank
account statements would  have revealed the same. And, its also clear from looking at Mr
Cs bank account  statements, that he was using these loans to fund his gambling addiction.
So there remained a very high risk that Mr C was applying for the credit card for the same
reason.
And in fact, thats exactly what happened. Mr C used his credit card straight away for
gambling which attracted a large number  of cash fees, and he went  over the limit within two
months of getting the card.
So, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think that Halifax lent responsibly in respect of the
credit card. In fact, looking  at Mr Cs situation at that time, his dependence  on short-term
lending, and his obvious  severe  difficulties with gambling  as clearly shown on his bank
account statements which had gone on for several  years prior, I consider that Halifax acted
recklessly in agreeing  to grant Mr C the credit  card.
This decision to lend put Mr C into even more of a financial hole (or even greater  financial
difficulty) and allowed  him to continue to feed his gambling addiction. Its clear to me that Mr
C was in an extremely vulnerable position at this point and, not only had to repay the short-term 
lending he had taken  out at presumably a high interest cost, but he was still using any available credit 
to gamble. Allowing Mr C even more access to credit only exacerbated this situation even further.
What Halifax needs  to do put things right
Mr C has told me that he has managed to keep his gambling under control  since 2017. So, it
would seem reasonable to take that into account here.
Having carefully considered everything, I find that it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for Halifax to put things right in the following way:
The overdraft limit increases
rework  Mr Cs current account balance  so that all interest, fees and charges
applied to it from November 2011 to June 2017 are removed;
remove all adverse  entries from Mr Cs credit  file from November 2011 to June 2017.
The loans
Typically, when we decide credit has been irresponsibly lent, we ask the creditor to refund all
interest and charges. However,  in this case, I consider Halifaxs actions in granting the loans
to have been  so irresponsible, it verged on being reckless  and led to Mr C suffering severe
detriment over several years.
Ref: DRN682403316I say this because, from what  I can see, Mr C had to pay Halifax back  with no apparent
disposable income  but from other borrowing. And he didnt have the benefit of the money
borrowed; he used it solely to gamble  and, like the winnings he received at certain  points,
this was used until it was actually spent  in full. I think it would  have been reasonably
foreseeable to Halifax that Mr C would  not have  been  in a position  to repay  the capital
amount of the loans back from disposable income.
I have thought  about  Mr Cs contribution to his situation as its of course  clear that he applied
for the loans and chose to gamble the money he received. So, it could be argued that the
responsibility for taking out the loans  should be shared between  both parties. However, I
think it fair to hold Halifax responsible taking into account all of the circumstances of the
case.
Mr Cs pattern of gambling  was, in my view, extreme and I have outlined why I think that in
my comments  in the previous section of my decision.  Given that, and the level of borrowing
taken out to fund this, Halifax ought to have been alerted to the fact that, in all likelihood, Mr
Cs gambling  had become an addiction, over which he had little control.
As such, I think it ought to have been apparent to Halifax that Mr Cs gambling was not a
controlled hobby or that Mr C was gambling  purely for entertainment. If that were  the case, I
could see the argument  that Halifax would not look to interfere with that. But that is so clearly
not the case  here. And the reality for Mr C would  be not only having an addiction  of which  he
had little control, but the knowledge that he was moving ever further into debt because  of
this.
So, I dont consider  that simply refunding interest and charges on the loans goes far enough.
I currently think it reasonable for Mr C not to have repaid  Halifax the capital borrowed on this
facility.
I propose therefore to instruct Halifax to:
refund all interest and charges;
refund the capital  amounts of each loan;  and
remove all adverse  information from Mr Cs credit file.
The credit  card
I consider the same sort of approach to the loans  to be reasonable  for the credit card,
bearing in mind Mr Cs circumstances had worsened  by this point  to the extent that he had
taken out nearly 60 payday/short-term  loans  in the preceding two years.
I note though  that Halifax  sold the outstanding credit card debt on to a debt purchaser
recently.
So, Halifax should:
take steps to buy back the debt from the debt purchaser;
rework  the credit  card balance to refund all interest, cash fees and charges to Mr
C. It should also refund him any capital  that he borrowed using the card.
remove all adverse  information from Mr Cs credit file.
I am mindful  that Mr Cs situation would have had a serious impact on his wellbeing and that
Halifax facilitated that by granting him access  to credit when it should  not have  done. I have
Ref: DRN682403317taken this into account and feel that my proposed  direction  to Halifax  as set out above
addresses this.
Ref: DRN6824033