K820x#14complaint
T, a limited company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited  will not compensate  it for a loss 
when a chargeback  of a card payment it had taken was made.
background
A customer of T was to pay it for goods  worth £27. That customer  took the payment card 
terminal and manually keyed in the card number and a payment for £2,700. T says that its 
staff found the customer aggressive and intimidating. He insisted  that the amount was 
refunded. A member of staff refunded this amount but to a different card. T contacted  
WorldPay several days later. WorldPay attempted to reverse  both transactions.  But there 
were no funds left to return the refund.  And a chargeback  was made for the purchase  by the 
genuine account holder.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-The customer should only have been allowed to use the card terminal to enter a PIN 
as this was a card present payment.
-As the card details  were entered manually T had no protection  against  the possibility 
of a chargeback  later on.
-The refund  was made to a different card which was not in line with the customer 
operating instructions.
-It might have  been possible to retrieve these funds  but T did not raise  this with 
WorldPay for six days.
-There was nothing  it could do and it is not responsible for Ts loss.
T did not agree.  It was very unhappy  to lose £2,700 and it said that there should be checks  
and balances to prevent  this from happening.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T has had a merchant services agreement  with WorldPay since  2009. I think  it was 
reasonable to expect  staff of T involved  in taking these payments to be familiar with the 
operating procedures. 
I fully appreciate that the customer involved likely did not give them  the option of acting 
differently. And in the time between the first payment at 22:33  that day and the refund at 
23:17 there did not seem to be the opportunity to get help or say to alert the police about the 
customers behaviour.  
The operating instructions  make clear that no one else should be allowed to use the terminal  
to make payments.  And that if someone  was able to do so then this should be notified to 
WorldPay straightaway. As the adjudicator says where payments are keyed manually there  
is limited protection  if the person using the card is not the genuine cardholder. And a refund 
ought to have been made to the same card. Again I understand  that staff involved likely felt 
they had little choice in the matter. But after the customer  had left I think it was reasonable 
for them either to contact  either a more senior person at T or WorldPay directly as soon as 
possible.
Ref: DRN63654132Im afraid that the chargeback of the payment  was made legitimately. And because of the 
way it was processed WorldPay did not have grounds to challenge it. Unfortunately by the 
time T contacted WorldPay there  were  no funds left to recover  of the refund.
I dont doubt that this was a planned action  by the customer involved to gain money  from T. 
The relevant  procedures that guard against that are those set out in the terms and conditions  
of the agreement and the customer  operating instructions. Im afraid as T did not follow 
those and did not report this promptly there was little that WorldPay could do. And so I dont 
find there are reasonable grounds to say that WorldPay made  a mistake or should  be 
responsible for Ts loss.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6365413