K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Etika Finance UK Limited  previously  known  as Paybreak Limited  
(trading as Afforditnow) has treated him unfairly  in relation to cancelling a finance 
agreement it provided to enable him to go on a skills course provided by a third party. I shall 
call Etika Paybreak to keep things  simple as that is the name of the company when Mr I 
took the finance from it (it only recently changed  its legal name).
background
Mr I entered a fixed sum loan agreement in November 2017 to pay for a skills course he 
wanted to go on at the time. He says he changed his mind  and cancelled the course  with the 
third party within the fourteen-day cooling off period. He didnt do the course. Mr I hasnt 
been paying Paybreak the monthly repayments  in the loan. So it has been chasing him for 
the money. Mr I feels because he didnt go on the course, hes being  asked to pay for 
nothing. So he doesnt think he should  pay. So he complained.
Paybreak investigated the matter  and told Mr I in April 2018 that he hadnt cancelled  within  
the fourteen-day cooling off period. So it didnt think it had done anything  wrong. Mr I 
remained unhappy with this, so he complained here.
The investigator didnt  feel any part of the complaint should be upheld.  Mr I doesnt  agree.  
So this complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the fixed  sum loan agreement  that Mr I signed electronically with 
Paybreak. I can see that after the cooling off period  of fourteen days there is no mechanism 
for exiting  the loan during  its lifespan without paying the full amount owed either in one go or 
instalments. The loan contract also explains  what happens in the event of payments  being  
missed including  charges  becoming applicable. I can see that in the completing of the loan 
contract Mr I has provided his name, address, phone  number,  some  employment details, 
bank account  details and electronic signature. It also contains the details of the skills course 
provider, the amount  borrowed and the amount to be repaid monthly and the length of the 
loan. So I think Mr I understood he was taking out a loan when he signed it.
Mr I has said to this service that I cancelled the program with (the third party)  within  the 
cooling off period. However on the 22 January 2018 Mr I emailed the third party.  In this 
email he wrote in relation  to the length of the course:
It's the main reason  that I want to cancel the study program as I can't give 10 
months to this course.
Mr I electronically  signed  the loan agreement  with Paybreak on 28 November 2017. So it is 
clear to me that at the time he was discussing cancelling  the course with the course provider  
in the email Ive quoted above,  he was already significantly outside the fourteen-day window  
for getting out of the loan with Paybreak.
On the 28 January 2018 the course  provider responds to Mr Is email.  In that email it 
explains that Mr I is not eligible for a cancellation  as your programme has been  active
Ref: DRN68966272since 28 November. It then goes on to explain hes still entitled to do the course and can 
have the materials  early if he wishes. On the 29 January 2018 Mr I responds.  In his email  he 
says Hope  there will be an appropriate  way to cancel the enrolment and not to get into the 
legal actions. Considering these emails I think that Mr I had not cancelled the loan 
agreement within the fourteen days cooling off period with the third-party course provider. 
Ive also considered whether Mr I informed Paybreak within the fourteen-day  period. I can 
see he forwards the email  correspondence hes had with the provider to Paybreak on 22 
March 2018. I can also see that Paybreak had an email conversation with the third-party  
course provider in March  2018 to ascertain the facts  and how the course provider was to 
progress matters. This includes the course provider describing how it could  help Mr I with 
getting back on track with the course  including  a course extension and one-to-one 
support/tuition. Considering what Mr I has said, Im satisfied he didnt inform Paybreak of his 
wish to exit the loan until after the fourteen-day cooling off period  had finished.
Mr I has pointed to a call with the third-party course provider soon after the loan was taken 
out. Paybreak has attempted to get this call from the third-party course provider but has 
been unsuccessful. Weve  asked  Mr I for phone records to support his position, but these 
have not been provided to us. However  considering what Mr I clearly  wrote sometime later 
(as Ive described) it is clear from his own words  in two separate emails  of January 2018 that 
Mr I accepted that the course at that stage hadnt  been cancelled. So although it is 
unfortunate that call recordings are unavailable, Im not persuaded that this makes a 
difference as Mr I later makes clear the course hadnt been cancelled.  So in considering  the 
matter I think Paybreak  has treated Mr I fairly. And is entitled to take further  action in regard  
to this debt in line with its obligations  and to do so fairly.
In short,  Ive considered everything that Mr I has said.  I appreciate how he feels about the 
whole situation,  but I think what he said at the time in his emails is persuasive.  All in all I 
think Paybreak has treated Mr I fairly with regard to the fixed  sum loan agreement  made.  So, 
I have decided that this complaint shouldnt succeed.
my final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold  this complaint about Etika Finance UK Limited 
previously known as Paybreak  Limited (trading as Afforditnow).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6896627