K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC has declined his mortgage  application.  He is also 
unhappy with the service  received during the application process.
background
Mr J applied for a mortgage with Lloyds in early 2019. He already  owned the property  that he 
was trying to borrow money  against  with no other outstanding secured borrowing. He was 
looking to borrow approximately £60,000. The loan was to fund some  renovations  and work 
he wanted to do to the property.
As part of the application  Lloyds used market data to value the property, rather than a 
physical inspection. Based on this data it estimated it was worth enough to proceed with the 
application.
There were delays in the application. Some of this was due to errors by Lloyds including  
sending the request for an employers reference to the wrong address and then not logging  
the information as promptly as it couldve when  this was returned.
Lloyds sent Mr J a mortgage offer on 25 March 2019. The offer gave details of the structure 
of the lending as well as detailing when  the offer expired, how long Mr J had to consider it 
and the circumstances under which both parties  could  withdraw.  It reiterated  in the 
supplementary information that no physical  inspection  of the property had taken place.
Mr J raised a complaint  with Lloyds about  how long things  had taken  to reach  this stage as 
he felt the delays were  due to errors  by Lloyds. He also said these delays had caused him to 
miss out on the opportunity to complete the installation of solar  panels before a change  in 
legislation. He said that this would mean he lost out on potential  income.
On 3 April 2019  Lloyds received a query from the solicitors involved in the transaction about 
the property. This related to confirmation  of the plot that the property  was located on. Lloyds 
was unable to answer  this query  as a physical inspection hadnt happened. As a result, it 
had to instruct a valuation involving a physical inspection to address this query.
Lloyds responded to Mr Js complaint about delays in the mortgage application on 9 April 
2019. It acknowledged that it had caused  delays in the application and offered Mr J £78 to 
cover call costs  hed incurred as well as £500 for the distress caused and the potential lost 
opportunity to generate an income from solar  panels. I understand that this amount has been 
paid to Mr J.
Further copies of the mortgage offer, that had already been sent to Mr J, were issued on 10 
and 12 April 2019. These were sent in error as the valuation  had not been  carried  out by that 
point. 
A valuation  was carried out on 18 April 2019.  Following  a review of the valuation  Lloyds 
decided it was not willing to provide a mortgage as the construction of the property was not 
considered suitable under its lending criteria.
Mr J raised a further complaint with Lloyds over the continued delay and its decision to 
decline the mortgage.
Ref: DRN66893592Lloyds said it was entitled to decline the mortgage  as the valuation carried  out revealed 
issues with the property that meant  it considered it wasnt suitable security. It acknowledged 
though that it had made an error when the physical  valuation  was first mentioned  that had 
delayed its completion.  Lloyds offered Mr J a further  £250 for the distress  caused by this 
delay and an additional £12 for costs  which again  I understand has been paid to Mr J.
Unhappy with this response Mr J asked our service to look into the complaint. 
An investigator considered the complaint but felt that the total offer made by Lloyds was fair. 
She said that Lloyds  was entitled to withdraw  the mortgage offer as, based  on its own 
lending criteria, it was no longer willing to lend. She said that it was clear, as Lloyds  had 
acknowledged, that the service provided  to Mr J by Lloyds  was poor, but she felt the amount 
already paid by Lloyds  to address this was fair.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators findings. He didnt think  Lloyds had acted fairly in 
withdrawing the offer and wanted  it to honour  the mortgage offer as well as compensating 
him. He said hed made arrangements  to start work to the property on the basis that Lloyds 
had provided a mortgage offer. So, it withdrawing the offer had left him unable to pay the 
costs of this work and facing debt collection action. 
As Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender is entitled to set its own policy on what it considers  to be suitable  security. And 
lenders can make their own commercial  decisions whether they are or are not willing  to lend. 
We cannot generally interfere with a business legitimate commercial  decision.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the valuation completed on 18 April 2019  which  details the 
construction of the property. Lloyds has also explained that its lending policy is that buildings  
of this construction are not considered  suitable to lend on. As a result,  it made the 
commercial decision that the application  was no longer acceptable  to it. 
Mr J has said he wants Lloyds to honour the mortgage offer but I dont think that is 
something I can reasonably ask it to do. Having  considered all of the information weve  been  
provided it appears that Lloyds has acted in line with its lending criteria and then made a 
commercial decision that it was not willing  to lend. 
I think at least some  of Mr Js unhappiness with this comes from this all having happened 
after Lloyds had issued  a mortgage offer.
The industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), sets rules  for mortgage 
lenders in relation to requirements when they make  a mortgage  offer to a customer. These  
rules are found in the Mortgage  and Home Finance: Code of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).  
These say that if a lender  offers to enter  into a contract with a customer  it must provide a 
binding offer. But they also say that lenders can make those binding offers subject to certain 
conditions  including relating to there  being  no material change to the facts  around the 
value of the property.
Ref: DRN66893593The mortgage offer Lloyds  provided  to Mr J included a section of conditions relating to 
circumstances under which it could withdraw the offer.  One of the reasons given was at the 
time we intend to lend you the money, the propertys  value is materially less than
the loan amount. I dont think this condition is unreasonable.
After the valuation report was received confirming the construction  type of the property, for 
Lloyds purposes  the value  of the property  then became materially less than the loan amount. 
And so it withdrew the mortgage offer, in line with the term Ive mentioned  above.
I do understand why Mr J was disappointed  by this. But having  considered  the conditions of 
the offer, its lending  criteria and the valuation report I think  Lloyds actions were done in line 
with the terms of the offer it made.  So, I dont think I can say that Lloyds has made an error 
by withdrawing the offer.  And as I think it was entitled to withdraw the offer,  and the offer 
included an explanation that it could  be withdrawn  indicting there  was a possibility it 
wouldnt go ahead - I also dont  think I can reasonably ask Lloyds to cover  any costs  Mr J 
has incurred in respect of money he has spent in anticipation of receiving the mortgage. 
As Ive said I can though  understand why the timing  of this was distressing for Mr J  so Ive 
thought about whether Lloyds shouldve done  anything differently earlier in the application  
process that mightve  avoided some of this distress. 
When Mr J first applied  for the mortgage,  Lloyds took the decision to base its valuation  of the 
property on market data rather than instruct a physical inspection. It has said it was willing  to 
do so based on the level of borrowing required compared to the estimated property value. I 
dont think this was unreasonable.  Having looked at the information included  in the mortgage 
application, I dont  think there was anything provided at that time that wouldve reasonably 
led Lloyds to think the property construction type mightve caused an issue.
The physical inspection of the property was instructed in order for Lloyds to answer  a query  
from the solicitors  without which the mortgage application couldnt have proceeded. And 
Lloyds has provided  evidence of this. And I think its explanation as to why this inspection 
became necessary when it did is reasonable. So from what  Ive seen, there doesnt seem to 
have been a reason for Lloyds to have instructed a physical valuation  sooner than it did. So 
although I do understand why it wouldve been very upsetting for Mr J for the mortgage  to 
have been withdrawn at this late stage,  I dont think Lloyds has made an error in how it 
handled the valuation of the property.
I do though think  that the customer service provided during the application process could  
have been better. And Lloyds has acknowledged  this. 
I can see that when  Mr J first applied for the mortgage he was keen  for the application to be 
completed in a set time. But mortgage  applications generally can take time as there are 
often a number  of different parties  (such  as lenders, surveyors and solicitors)  and processes  
involved. 
Lloyds has said though that it was responsible  for some delays. It has said there  were  delays 
in processing some  of the information  sent to it and the valuation in April was delayed  a 
couple of days  due to confusion. So it appears that the application process couldve been 
completed sooner  than it was. I also note that the mortgage offer first provided on 25 March  
2019 was incorrectly  reissued twice  on 10 and 12 April 2019, before  the inspection  of the 
property had happened. And I think this likely caused further confusion.
Ref: DRN66893594In recognition of the poor service provided  Lloyds  paid £750 for the distress  caused by its 
delays and £90 for the costs Mr J incurred in chasing the progress of the application. Taking  
everything into account, I think that offer is fair so I wont be recommending  that Lloyds do 
more.
I know Mr J feels  strongly  about this complaint and I can see he has explained that the 
application being declined has caused  him significant distress.  Im sorry to hear about the 
issues hes now experiencing. And I know  my decision  is likely to come as a disappointment 
to him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I think Lloyds  was within its rights to withdraw the 
mortgage offer and I think the compensation it has already paid is a fair way to resolve  the 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020..
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6689359