K821x#15Complaint
Miss H has complained that Ultimate Insurance Solutions Limited  (Ultimate) have unfairly
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Miss H took out, will continue to cover  any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Ultimate should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Miss H.
Ultimate have accepted  the information they gave Miss H about  the policy wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. And have offered to pay her £400 compensation for the trouble and
upset shes been  caused as a result of this.
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the
insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power  to tell a business what their
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how they
should operate  and thats  not my role. So I cant say the cost of Miss Hs policy is too high 
or she should have  been  charged  less for the policy.
While Miss Hs premium  has seen  a significant  increase,  I havent  seen any evidence  to
suggest Ultimate have treated her differently to how they would  have treated any other
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Ultimate have singled her out and treated
her unfairly compared to their other customers or that Ultimate needs  to offer her cover for a
lower premium going forwards.
I understand Miss H will be disappointed with this. I recognise that the situation has caused
her significant upset and shes now in the difficult and distressing position that she may have 
to cancel the insurance losing cover for any existing conditions her dog may have. And she 
is likely  to find it very difficult  to find alternative cover  considering her dogs age. 
But the thing Ultimate did wrong  was not give Miss H the information she needed  to 
understand she could end up in the position she now finds himself in. Where  I find 
something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a 
consumer has lost out.
Miss H chose to take out pet insurance,  so she wanted some type of cover for her pet. And, 
as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the greater level 
Ref: DRN62628232of cover it provided. If Miss H hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either  had no cover 
at all, and would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced  level of 
cover, where she would still have found herself  in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were 
no longer covered. So I think  its likely  she would still have gone ahead  with the lifetime 
policy, even if shed  known the premium could  increase significantly in the future.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Miss H wasnt so
surprised and upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been
something she was expecting to happen,  particularly if she claimed on the policy. And she
would have been better prepared that at some point it might  not be possible to carry on with
the policy because  it might be unaffordable or not cost effective.
Ultimate have offered  £400 to Miss H in recognition that the information she was given 
wasnt good enough. But in our initial assessment of the case the investigator recommended 
they increase  the amount  of compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Miss H to 
£600.
Ultimate disagree and say that Miss Hs case doesnt warrant the higher  compensation 
because when considered alongside  some of their other customers  they say there is nothing 
in Miss Hs circumstances  that sets her apart (such as vulnerability) which would have meant 
that the lack of information provided  by them may have caused her more  distress. 
But when we look at a complaint, were always looking at the individual  circumstances of that 
consumer which goes  beyond whether  they can be identified as vulnerable or not. Although  
this is of course something  we consider. 
In 2019 Miss H saw her policy  almost double in price the space of just a year  from £802.86  
to £1565.28. What  this means in practical terms for Miss H is that she now has to make the 
very difficult decision about whether to carry on with the policy and pay a premium  thats  
much more than she ever expected to pay or cancel it and lose the cover. Miss Hs dog is 13 
years old and so getting cover elsewhere is going to be very difficult and in any event  she 
wouldnt be able to get cover for any existing conditions. 
Miss H clearly didnt expect to find herself  this position. When she took out a lifetime policy, 
she expected  it to be for just that  the whole of her pets life. And now her dog is elderly and 
shes more likely to need the cover, she is faced with the cover  being unaffordable for her. 
Better information about the policy wouldve meant  that she could  have been  more prepared 
for the possibility that she might not be able to afford to continue with the policy at some  
point and that her pet might lose cover for their existing medical conditions. Instead  Miss H 
was shocked and upset when she realised  this. 
In addition Miss H was caused further distress and confusion  when  Ultimate  suggested 
downgrading her cover to make the policy  more  affordable for her. In fact reducing the level 
of cover turned out to be more  expensive. But Ultimate did not offer her a clear explanation 
about why. And shes left without any option to make  the policy more affordable - which  is 
upsetting when the suggestion had been made  that this might have been possible.  
The award I make isnt to compensate Miss H for financial loss - I can see she has benefited
from the policy. Its about the impact that the lack of clear information has had on Miss H, 
both practically and emotionally.  Its clear the difficult  position  she now finds herself in was 
not something she expected when she decided to take out lifetime cover for her dog. It has 
Ref: DRN62628233caused her a significant amount of trouble  and upset.  So, I think compensation of £600 is fair 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ultimate Insurance  Solutions Limited  should pay Miss H £600  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept
or reject this decision before 11 July 2020. 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6262823