K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr W bought a MPPI policy which started in August 1996 to protect his mortgage  
repayments. The policy was added during a meeting with an advisor  from Lloyds.               
Mr W was covered against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The policy  and mortgage  
ended February 2008.
Mr W believes Lloyds  mis-sold the policy. He says he did not knowingly apply for PPI. He 
says the mortgage application form had already been completed  and he just signed  at the 
bottom of the form. He does not think Lloyds  made  it clear to him that the MPPI policy was 
optional.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr W doesnt  agree with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint because of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how or if the policy was presented to Mr W during the meeting and a lot 
of time has passed since he was sold it. Ive looked at what  he said about how the policy 
was sold  including that he did not knowingly  apply for PPI and that the application 
form had already been completed for him to sign. But I think, after considering  the 
documentation provided and what I know of how Lloyds  sold policies at that time, it is 
more likely than not that he was advised  it was a good  idea to have the insurance to 
protect his mortgage repayments, and he took it on that advice.
I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  It is likely that a conversation was had 
between the advisor and Mr W regarding the cover and Mr W then agreed  to it by 
signing the application form. So although  it is possible the sale took place as Mr W 
recollects, I still think it is more likely he chose to have  it. I have not seen enough 
information to support  what  Mr W says so that I can safely conclude anything  other  than 
they were given a choice to have the policy.
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mr W, but it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The 
benefits provided by the policy would have paid out in addition to the provisions Mr W 
had (3 months sick pay),  in a difficult time.  Mr W didnt have enough provisions  that I 
can see at the time of sale that would have  meant he wouldnt have had at least some 
use of the benefit offered by having the cover. I can also see no other reasons such as a 
significant or restrictive  term that would make the policy  unsuitable.
Ref: DRN61182392Im unsure as to whether Lloyds clearly disclosed the costs of the policy  to                   
Mr W. But even  if it did, it wouldnt have changed  Mr Ws decision to have  the policy for 
the reasons I have  already given.  It was reasonably priced  compared  to similar policies 
available at the time and to the monthly mortgage repayment. And Mr W could have 
cancelled the MPPI  if it did become unaffordable.
I consider that the policy provided  Mr W with a useful  additional  benefit  (over and above 
his sickness benefits) for a reasonable cost to protect his home in the event that it was 
necessary for Mr W to make a claim.  Its possible  Lloyds didnt point  out the main things 
the policy  didnt  cover. But its unlikely Mr W wouldve  been  affected by any of these 
based on his circumstances  at the time.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but on balance, I do not uphold  his 
complaint for the reasons that I have  given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6118239