K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains she was mis-sold a whole of life and savings policy by Sun Life Assurance  
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited.
In summary,  she says shes unhappy  that the savings element of the policy is being taken 
away and she didnt  expect the premium to increase from £15 a month. 
background
In February 1986,  Mrs G took out a unit-linked reviewable whole of life policy  that provided 
life cover of £50,000  but also allowed her to pay something towards  savings. The premium 
of £15 was split between providing  the life cover  element of the policy (£9.15) and savings  
(£5.85). 
Mrs G complained when  she received a letter from Sun Life in October 2018 which indicated 
a significant increase to the premium  would be needed at some point. Mrs G suggested  that 
she wasnt aware that his premium could go up.
Sun Life issued a final response to the complaint in January 2019, in which it said there  was 
no evidence to suggest Mrs G had been  told the premium was guaranteed.  And it was 
satisfied Mr G was aware the policy would be reviewed and that the premium  could 
potentially increase.
Sun Life explained that a one-off charge  of £24.42 had recently been incurred to correct  an 
issue between the split of the monthly premium  between  the protection  cost and savings 
amount. And although it didnt agree with Mrs Gs specific concerns, it felt the 
recommendation wasnt entirely suitable.
Sun Life said it was unable to justify  life cover being included  when the policy was sold in 
1986 but thought  from July 1988  roughly when  Mrs G was likely to have got married  she had 
a need for the life cover. 
Sun Life offered  to repay  the premiums on the basis the policy  wasnt  suitable, but with the 
cost of life cover (and other relevant costs) from July 1988  deducted  on the basis  Mrs G had 
a need for life cover from then. The total amount offered was £8,391.18  as of 16 January 
2019. It hasnt  proposed  to cancel the policy. 
Mr G didnt agree with Sun Lifes offer and referred  her complaint to us. She thought Sun 
Life should repay the full premium plus compound interest. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
Mrs G had a need  for life cover from July 1988  and that the offer made  by Sun Life 
was fair. 
Although the refund  figure is £8,391.18, the current value of the policy is £9,936 (as 
of September  2019)  which is higher than the redress offered, so Mrs G hasnt 
suffered a financial loss. 
If Sun Life had deemed  life cover necessary from the outset  as Mrs G suggests it 
was  the redress figure  would  be even lower than whats being proposed. 
Ref: DRN66628142If Mrs G decided to cancel  her policy shes likely  to receive £9,936.17 although this 
amount isnt guaranteed and can increase  or decrease. 
The reviewable nature  and operation of the policy was made reasonably clear to Mrs 
G from the outset. And going  forward based  on its calculations in order to maintain 
the £50,000 sum assured its no longer able to pay into the savings element. Sun Life 
gave no guarantees that this might not happen.    
Mrs G was asked to let our service know by 28 November  2019 if she disagreed with the 
investigators view, but to date she hasnt responded. 
Its assumed that Mrs G doesnt  agree  with the investigators conclusions,  so the matter has 
now been referred to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs G says, Im satisfied the 
redress is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Gs strength  of feeling about this matter.   
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mrs G and Sun Life, and reach  what I think is 
an independent,  fair and reasonable decision  based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mrs G is complaining  about  is known as a 
reviewable whole of life insurance. Despite what she says its not set up for a specific term, 
or a fixed  premium, but is instead designed to pay out on death  whenever it occurs, provided  
the premiums have been paid.   
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
Plan illustrations or projections can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums are 
likely to be, but they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of the premiums. This is why Mrs 
Ref: DRN66628143G couldnt have  been told precisely  how the premiums were  likely to change. And why Mrs G 
was so surprised  by the October 2018  letter  that the existing  level contributions (with a 
continuing contribution into the savings pot) were insufficient to maintain the sum assured. 
Each premium  in this case  £15  paid into the policy was split two ways. £9.85 was used 
to pay for the life cover part of the policy with part paying the costs of cover  in that month  
and the other part being  invested. The remaining £5.85 was invested into a savings pot. 
Any charges  due are deducted from the sale of units  rather  than from a deduction of the sum 
assured. The cost of the cover however isnt fixed and actually increases with age.  
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased age, and the increased 
likelihood of a claim as the life assured gets older. And thats whats happening in this case. 
The hope  is that the investment element of the life cover part of the policy  will grow  enough  
to fund the shortfall when the policy reaches the point  that the cost of cover becomes greater 
than the premium being paid for that part, and this may explain the rise in premium.  
Its likely,  that at the point  of sale Mrs Gs wouldve been given the assumed yearly  growth  
figures which determined  whether  (or not) the premiums she paid could maintain the level of 
cover or whether shed need to increase to pay for the increased cost of life cover.  
Thats why policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the 
original assumptions - in this instance the policy was reviewed  every  five years. At each 
review, the insurer also needs  to make new assumptions about the cost of cover and 
investment performance  in the future. 
Thats why its not always possible to predict  future premium increases with any degree  of 
accuracy. But not being able to predict future  premiums doesnt  mean  the policy  isnt being 
administered correctly.  
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review  - usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed   usually  meaning the policyholder  will be offered the choice of either paying a higher  
premium to maintain  the same level of cover or accepting reduced cover for the same 
premium. 
In this instance, Sun Life has said Mrs G didnt  need life cover  in 1986, which I agree with 
given she was only 19 years of age, single, and with no dependents.
On the basis that Mrs G shouldnt have been  sold the policy  in 1986, shes entitled  to return 
of her premium plus interest  from that date and there is no dispute about that. I note that she 
has suggested in her complaint form that interest  should be compound but we normally 
award simple interest at 8% which is the basis Sun Life has used to calculate what is due 
and I think this is reasonable.  
Im aware of the issue  of whether life cover should  be deducted from the outset.  If I accept 
what Mrs G says then it should be, which would result in less redress  than currently being 
offered. But despite  what  Mrs G now says, on balance I agree with Sun Life, and that she 
didnt have a need for life cover when  the policy was taken out in 1986 for the reasons 
Ref: DRN66628144above. And on this basis Sun Life has offered to pay the refund in full for the period  between 
1986 and 1988 which I think is fair. 
I also dont think Sun Life is unfair  to offer a full refund less the cost of life cover from 1988 
onwards  after she was married   to 2019. Im satisfied Mrs G was aware she had life cover  
and wanted it particularly given the change in her circumstances. And Im mindful that Mrs G 
only complained  because of the letter she received  in October 2018 about the savings 
elements of the policy, and the reviewable  nature of the policy,  not because she didnt want  
life cover.  
The letter of October 2018 explained that a past processing error had caused  the split 
between the protection and savings premium  to be calculated incorrectly  so that the amount 
of premium allocated  to pay for the benefits of the policy was too low to cover  the charges.  It 
said a charge of £24.42 had been made  to rectify  this which  I dont think  is unreasonable.  
I note the letter also referred to a premium of £55.85 which is the figure  that led Mrs G to 
complain. This figure is what Sun Life calculated Mrs G would have to pay to provide life 
cover for the whole of her life from 2018.  But she wasnt being asked to pay that figure at 
that time as Sun Life made clear.
Despite what Mrs G says, I dont think  the past processing error  now entitles her to a full 
refund of premiums without any deductions. 
I understand that as of January 2019 Mrs G had paid 395 monthly amounts of £15 to the 
policy, totalling £5,925. After the deduction  of life cover and the relevant costs the amount 
with interest  comprised  of 15% up to April 1993  and 8% simple from April 1993  onwards - 
came to £8,391.18.  But because  the policy already has a value of £9,936 (or more recently 
£9,026.70), Im satisfied  that Mrs G hasnt lost out financially.  
Sun Life hasnt said that Mrs G should cancel her policy, its a matter  for her whether she 
surrenders now and takes the surrender value or continues  with the policy.  If Mrs G decides 
to continue with the policy shell be unable to complain about the same issues  again. 
Despite what Mrs G now says, Im not persuaded that she wasnt  made aware of the 
reviewable nature and operation of the policy.   
I appreciate Mrs G will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants  to hear. Whilst I appreciate  her 
frustration, Im not going to ask Sun Life to do anything different. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs G 
what she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Im satisfied the offer made by Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Ref: DRN66628145Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6662814