K822xcomplaint
Mrs A complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  
S.A. unfairly turned  down her cancellation claim under her travel insurance policy.
My reference to Mapfre includes its agent. 
background 
Mrs A booked a long haul holiday  at the end of May 2016 and was due to travel in 
January 2017.  She paid an initial small deposit initially followed by a larger  payment in 
June 2016.
On 20 September  2016 Mrs A visited her GPs  practice having experienced some  bleeding.  
She understood that she had a polyp. She was referred for hospital investigation.
On 21 September  2016 Mrs A took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy with 
Mapfre.
In October  Mrs A had the polyp removed and on 14 October 2016 she was told she had 
endometrial cancer  (a cancer that begins in the uterus). She was referred to a gynaecology  
clinic and in early November 2016 her doctor arranged for her to have a total hysterectomy.
On 25 November 2016 Mrs A called Mapfre  to tell it about her cancer  diagnosis  and recent  
hysterectomy. She says Mapfre reassured  her that she was insured for her forthcoming  trip 
so she went ahead to make the final holiday  payment the following day. She explains it was 
only on 12 December 2016  that her consultant oncologist confirmed shed need daily 
radiotherapy starting early  January 2017. As such, she was advised to cancel  her holiday 
which she did that day. She received  a partial refund and made a claim to Mapfre  for the 
balance of the holiday cost.  
Mapfre turned down the claim because Mrs A had been referred  for tests  the day before she 
took out the policy, and this meant her claim wasnt covered under the policy terms. Mapfre  
also had concerns about the timing of Mrs A taking out the policy and her knowledge of her 
medical condition.  Mrs A came to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, as he thought Mapfre had fairly  turned it down 
under the policys  terms and conditions. Mrs A strongly disagreed and the complaint came  to 
me for review.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I intended to uphold  the complaint in part. 
I made  findings on the three issues I thought were central to this case:
the policy exclusion: I thought Mapfre had done enough to show that it could rely on the 
policy exclusion it had quoted in its letters to Mrs A. This is because  Mrs A had been  referred  
for investigations in hospital, even though at the time she thought it was for a minor  
condition. This meant that, on the strict  policy terms her health condition  came under the 
pre-existing medical condition policy exclusion. 
Ref: DRN65122932the timing of Mrs A taking  out the policy: I was satisfied with Mrs As explanation for not 
taking out a policy at the time shed  booked the holiday. I didnt think  shed  taken out the 
policy in the belief that she might  need  to make a claim.
did Mapfre lead Mrs A to believe she was covered for her January 2017 holiday?
I thought Mapfre  did lead Mrs A to believe  that she was covered under  her travel insurance 
policy for her January 2017  holiday.  I set out an extract from my provisional findings here:
Mrs A has also complained that Mapfre misled her to believe she was covered  for her 
January 2017  holiday  after shed had her surgery for cancer  and before she paid the final 
holiday balance. Shes referred to telephone  calls with Mapfre on 27 November 2016  and 
18 January 2017.  Ive listened to those  calls. 
In the November 2016 call Mrs A had rung Mapfre to tell it about her cancer  diagnosis.  
Mapfre explained it would go through its medical screening (that is, a series of questions 
about her health  which  determine  whether it would cover her or not). Its agent started the 
screening process by reading out a series of statements  about  its policy  exclusions. He said:
We will not pay a claim if when purchasing a policy or when booking a trip anyone insured 
on this policy  is receiving  or awaiting any medical  tests or treatment for any medical 
condition or set of symptoms that have not been  diagnosed;  is travelling against  the advice 
of any medical practitioner or travelling to get medical treatment abroad;  has been told about  
a condition which will cause their death.  I now have some specific  medical conditions to ask 
you. Its vital that you answer these questions carefully and accurately taking reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation as inaccurate  answers may result in underwriters 
declining any claim costs  that may arise. Please confirm you are happy to answer these 
questions on behalf of yourself  and any other  person  insured  on this policy.
After hed finished Mrs A asked him not to speak so quickly as he asked her the questions. 
My observation is that the agent read the above statement very quickly.
The agent  continued with medical  questions about  Mrs As health and then her cancer  
diagnosis. He then reassured Mrs A that she was covered  under  the policy for her cancer, 
because it was diagnosed after shed booked her holiday. He reassured her on five separate  
occasions throughout the call. 
Ive also listened  to the January 2017  call. The information Mrs A gave  was consistent with 
the first call. 
Mrs A went  ahead and paid the final balance  of her January holiday on 28 November, the 
day after shed spoke  to Mapfre  the first time on 27 November 2016.  I think  she did so 
because Mapfre reassured her she was covered for the January holiday  as shed booked it 
before she had the cancer diagnosis. 
Mapfre was the expert. Mrs A had told it after looking at her papers that shed  booked  the 
holiday before  the policy  was taken  out. Mapfre was aware that shed not be covered if she 
had symptoms before shed taken out the policy. I accept that it had mentioned  this as part 
of a longer list of exclusions at the beginning of the call. But it then went  on to reassure  
Mrs A several times that she was covered for her January 2017 holiday.  I think it should 
have been more cautious about offering this reassurance, not least  as Mrs A had told it that 
she still had to pay the holiday balance. 
Ref: DRN65122933Mrs A was clearly very keen to go on her January holiday  and thought shed be able to do 
so. She was feeling  well and says she was told by her consultants that it was good to have  
the holiday to look forward to. She was aware  there was a possibility of further treatment but 
of course shed been reassured by Mapfre that she was covered. Its possible shed still 
have paid the balance of the holiday even if Mapfre had told her it couldnt say whether or 
not she was covered. But on balance  I dont think shed have done  so. The overall  holiday 
cost was around £6,000 and she had paid the final instalment for the holiday of just under 
£3,600 the day after she spoke to Mapfre. Shed explained to Mapfre that shed need  to 
make the payment.
a fair settlement
In my provisional decision I set out what I thought was a fair settlement based on the 
information available to me at that time. This is what I said:
I cant  fairly say that Mapfre must  pay Mrs As claim in full because  it simply wasnt covered 
under the policys  terms. Im looking at whether her position was prejudiced.  She paid the 
holiday company  an amount  of £3,533 on 28 November  2016 and Ive found she wouldnt 
have done so had Mapfre not misled her. 
Ive looked at the holiday companys current cancellation terms on its website. These  say 
that if a long haul holiday is cancelled between 36 and 69 days before the consumer travels 
then the cancellation charge is 75%. 
If Mrs A had cancelled the holiday (and not paid the final balance)  on 27 November then this 
date was between  36 and 69 days before she was due to travel. So it seems  to me that 
shed have had to pay 75% of the holiday cost as the cancellation charge.
The total cost for the holiday was £6,043 and so the 75% cancellation charge was £4,533  a 
difference of £1,510 (figures rounded down).
Mrs A paid the full holiday cost but she received a refund of £1,510 on 12 December when 
she cancelled the holiday. In other words shed  paid the 75% cancellation  charge of £4,533.
So Mrs A would always have had a cancellation  charge of 75% of the total holiday cost 
whether she cancelled the holiday on 27 November  2016 when she spoke to Mapfre  or on 
12 December 2016 when she found  out about  her further treatment plan. So she would 
always have had to pay the holiday company a total of £4,533  (based on the booking  terms 
Ive seen).
This means  that I currently dont think Mrs A was financially prejudiced  by Mapfres  incorrect  
reassurance that she was covered under the policys  terms. 
If Mrs A can show that the booking  terms in 2016  were different from the current ones, then 
Ill look at that evidence. For example, if the cancellation charge had increased from 
27 November to 12 December 2016  then Ill likely make Mapfre pay the difference  on the 
basis that she had to pay more to cancel  the holiday than she would have done if shed 
cancelled it on 27 November.
I do think that Mapfres incorrect reassurance  caused Mrs A some  real loss of expectation  
and disappointment.  Based on what Mapfre had told her shed  thought she was covered and 
Ref: DRN65122934paid the balance on that basis. She disagreed with Mapfre about the policy exclusion but she 
was also frustrated that Mapfre wouldnt pay her claim even though  it had reassured  her she 
was covered. 
Ive found it wouldnt  have made  any financial difference to Mrs A even if shed been given 
correct information  on 27 November. But I think Mapfre should pay her some  compensation 
for distress and inconvenience  and I assess £250  to be a reasonable amount.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs A responded to ask me to consider some further information. She thought she should  
receive, at the very least, the full £3,593 payment that shed made after she had spoken to 
Mapfre on 27 November 2016  (not £3,533 as Id said in my provisional  decision). She also 
explained that under the 2016 booking terms and conditions shed have lost only the deposit 
had she cancelled more  than 56 days ahead. She sent me those terms and conditions.  So 
she asked me to review  this information and reconsider. 
I responded to Mrs A. I said sorry for my error   as she says shed paid £3,593. I also asked 
for some more information.
Mrs A sent me the information  that Id asked  for and Ive shared that information with Mapfre.  
Following some further correspondence  both Mrs A and Mapfre have agreed with my revised  
proposed settlement, which  Ill summarise below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still intend to uphold this complaint in part for the reasons  set out in full in my provisional  
decision. But based on the further information  provided by Mrs A, I now consider a fair and 
reasonable settlement to this complaint to be as follows:
Mrs A explained that shed realised when she was going through her paperwork to respond  
to my questions that shed  received  a refund totalling £1,871.50 from the holiday company 
shed booked with. The holiday  company had also arranged to refund the taxes for the flight  
(but the flight upgrade itself was non-refundable). Shed also lost the £31 for the return 
coach journey to the airport. 
Excluding the flight upgrade of £2,300 Mrs A had paid to the holiday company:
£3,390  for the holiday itself
£133  for a pre-holiday  get together
£220  for a pre-bookable excursion
£3,743  total paid for the above elements.
Mrs A received back from the holiday company
£1,510.75   shown on the cancellation  invoice
£360.75  in January 2017 (when  the holiday company  realised it had applied  a 75% 
cancellation charge instead of the correct 50% cancellation charge)
Ref: DRN65122935£1,871.50   total refund (50% of the amount shed paid excluding the flight upgrade 
meaning a 50% cancellation charge). 
Based on the 2016 booking terms and conditions Mrs A would have paid a cancellation 
charge of only £150 (the deposit) had she cancelled  after speaking  to Mapfre on 
27 November 2016 (59 days before the holiday)  and instead shed paid a cancellation  
charge of £1,871.50 (having cancelled on 12 December 2016). 
As mentioned above, in addition Mrs A lost the entire £2,300 business class  upgrade  which 
was not recoverable  as set out in the booking terms and conditions  except  for taxes  of 
£229.68 which the holiday company arranged to refund to her. 
So to put Mrs A back in the position  she should have been in had she cancelled on 
27 November 2016 rather than when she actually did cancel on 12 December 2016 it is my 
view that a fair and reasonable  award to Mrs A is as follows:
£1,871.50   actual 50% cancellation charge she paid; plus
£31  cost of the unused coach return journey to the airport; plus
£2,300  non-refundable  business class upgrade (non-recoverable based on the 
booking terms whether she cancelled on 27 November 2016  or 12 December 2016).
£4,202.50   total
Less 
£150  the lost deposit (the cancellation  charge payable had she cancelled  on 
27 November 2016); plus
£229.68  the refund of taxes for the flight.
So my award for Mrs As financial loss is £3,822.82  being £4,202.50 less £150 less 
£229.68. 
In addition to £3,822.82  I award Mrs A £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Im pleased to say that both Mrs A and Mapfre  agree with the above settlement. Mrs A has 
sent us her bank details,  which  weve  passed  on to Mapfre. 
I appreciate this dispute has been difficult for Mrs A given the circumstances of the claim. 
I thank both Mrs A and Mapfre for their patience in this case  and for their help and 
co-operation in reaching a settlement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold this 
complaint in part. I require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. to pay to Mrs A:
£3,822.82  for her financial  loss; and
£250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN65122936Mapfre must pay the total compensation  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs A 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Mapfre  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs A how much  its taken off. It should also give Mrs A a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6512293