K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Miss A. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1994 alongside a store credit account. 
Miss A was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account .
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Miss A has said, but Ive decided not to uphold  her complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Miss A signed,  does  set out the PPI as a choice, which you make by 
ticking a box. Miss A has said it wasnt her who ticked  that box. However, so many 
years after the event, it would not be fair for me to say that FICL acted wrongly  and 
added the PPI without proper consent,  unless I had some supporting  evidence.  
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Miss As individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Miss A to decide  whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Miss A clear and fair information, so she could make 
an informed choice.  And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Miss A. So Ive thought about  whether better  information  is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Miss As circumstances at the time, even if 
shed been given all the necessary information,  I dont think its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was given a choice  which  I accept 
she says didnt  really happen.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could 
have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been 
in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy  pay. Also its not clear she had 
many alternative means that she could definitely  rely on to pay her living  expenses  and 
credit account for long,  if she lost her income;  and even  if she did, she could have kept 
those in reserve for longer. So the PPI is likely  still to have seemed potentially  useful.  
Also it doesnt look like shed have been  affected by any of the significant exclusions in 
the policy. 
Ref: DRN67313532my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6731353