K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc made numerous errors in the handling  of his 
credit card account.
background
Mr K has had a credit  card account  with Capital One for many years. He says that it failed to 
send him a card since 2010, he cannot  open  his online statements or log into his account 
and his user name and password are unrecognisable.
Capital One says Mr K requested a new card in 2006 when he changed  address  and there 
was an issue with sending  it. A new card was requested in November  2010  and the final 
card was sent in March  2013.
Capital One also said that when he complained it had difficulty  tracing his records from the 
information provided and subsequently  he gave a different  date of birth from the one it held.  
Mr K explained that he had two passports with different dates  of birth.  It placed  a block  on 
his account and as it couldnt verify  his identity it was unable to address his complaint. It then 
decided to close his account. 
Mr K brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He explained that while  there may have 
been an error made by Capital one in 2006  he couldnt consider this as a complaint  hadnt 
been brought in time. He was satisfied that Capital Ones records  showed that it had sent the 
subsequent two cards.
He also thought it reasonable for Capital one to have placed a block  on the account when 
the security information  given by Mr K was wrong.  He went  on to say that under the terms 
and condition of the agreement Capital  One was allowed to close  the account  and it had 
given due notice.  He said it was open to Mr K to apply  for a new account if he wished, but 
there was no guarantee it would be accepted.
Mr K didnt agree and said he had asked a number  of questions  which  hadnt been  
answered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
I appreciate Mr Ks frustration, but I dont consider I can uphold  his complaint. I will explain 
why.
The first issue was the non receipt  of three cards. This service  has time limit which,  in broad 
terms, doesnt allow us to consider issues which have  arisen  more  than six years prior to the 
complaint being  received. Therefore I dont consider we can look at whether the card was 
Ref: DRN64965512properly issued in 2006. I have seen  the business internal records  and I am satisfied the 
later two cards were  sent out and Capital One cannot be held responsible for their non-
delivery.
I appreciate that Mr K had issues in logging on and accessing his account  details, but again  I 
have seen nothing  that would indicate that Capital  One has done anything  wrong  in this 
regard. To access information the customer needs  to enter  the correct  verification 
information and it seems that Mr K wasnt wholly clear as to what those details  were.  This 
created some uncertainty  and caused Capital One a degree of concern.
Finally, Capital One was entitled to close the account as long as it followed the correct 
procedure and I consider it has done so. So while I can understand Mr Ks annoyance I dont 
believe the business did anything wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
28 November 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6496551