K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains that Metro Bank  PLC (Metro) blocked his debit card while he was abroad 
after hed told it not to.
background 
On 22 August 2018 Mr O telephoned Metro to advise that hed be travelling abroad from 23 
 28 August. While  abroad, he lost his phone, which didnt have a security lock enabled. So, 
to prevent fraudulent misuse of his account  by others he telephoned Metro  on 24 August 
2018 to request that it block his online banking facility. 
During this telephone conversation he expressly asked it not to block  his card as he needed 
to use it to pay his holiday  expenses while overseas. But Metro blocked his card in error  on 
26 August, which  prevented Mr O from using  his card from that date until 29 August when  
the restriction was removed by Metro after he visited a branch on his return to the UK.
When Mr O discovered  that his card had been blocked he tried to contact Metro  through  an 
online messaging platform. It telephoned  him on 28 August to discuss the problem with Mr 
O. But as Mr O didnt answer Metro left a voicemail asking him to return  its call. Mr O didnt 
make further  contact with Metro until 29 August  when he attended a branch. 
When Mr O complained to Metro about  what had happened,  it accepted  it had made an error  
in blocking his card and offered £60 compensation to Mr O for the impact this had. It later 
increased its offer of compensation to £200.  But when Mr O said it should  refund the cost of 
his holiday it refused to increase its offer any further  because it felt the revised offer was fair.
When Mr O brought his complaint to us our investigator empathised with Mr O but didnt 
think Metro needed  to do anything more here. They thought that £200 compensation was 
appropriate and fair. But Mr O disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. I appreciate  this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr O so Ill explain why.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr O experienced  while abroad when Metro cancelled  
his card.  I can appreciate that this caused  him distress and inconvenience. I understand that 
he tried to use his card abroad  eight times after it was blocked, which  mustve  been 
incredibly frustrating.
Mr O said before he travelled abroad he told Metro that his card would be his only source of 
funds while  overseas. So he says it knew hed be left without funds when it cancelled his 
card. Metro  has already accepted it made  an error in blocking Mr Os card and its offered 
him £200 compensation to resolve  his complaint. But he wants it to award compensation to 
cover the cost of his holiday and the emotional stress he experienced because he says it 
ruined his entire holiday. My role here is to decide whether the compensation its offered is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN61927682Ive seen evidence  that Mr O contacted the bank via an online messaging platform  on 26 
August to request it call him about his card being blocked in error. Metro attempted  to call Mr 
O on 28 August but was unable to reach him on the number hed given it so it left a 
voicemail explaining how to contact it further. I understand that Mr O didnt return Metros 
call or contact it further until he returned to the UK. So Metro wasnt able to assist  Mr O until 
he visited a branch on his return home. Because Metro tried to contact Mr O and left 
instructions of how he could return its call I cant hold it responsible for not resolving this 
problem earlier than it did. 
Mr O is unhappy with the time it took for Metro to contact him following his online message. 
But I dont think the delay in Metro calling  Mr O is unreasonable here because if hed wanted  
a quicker response  from Metro he couldve escalated  his online enquiry by telephoning it to 
speak with someone urgently. He left his online message on a Sunday  night and the 
following day was a bank  holiday. So it responded the next working day. Its not 
unreasonable for a bank not to deal with online messages  as quickly as telephone calls 
because theyre generally used  by customers for less urgent matters. 
If Mr O had telephoned Metro after his card was blocked it couldve offered him a prompter  
solution here. I say this because it couldve lifted the cards  restriction  or provided  him with 
support or emergency measures while he was still abroad.  Mr O was travelling with 3 friends 
so he couldve used  their phone to speak to Metro. He said he didnt want  his friends  to incur 
international phone call costs. But I think calling Metro if hed wanted a quicker  response  
wouldve been a reasonable  step for him to take in an emergency situation such  as this, in 
the same  way he did when he reported his phone stolen.
Mr O has said if hed known his card would be blocked he wouldnt have travelled abroad. 
He says hed have worked instead  and has incurred a financial loss in not doing so. But as 
our investigator told Mr O, our service has to consider what actually happened.  So, we cant 
award compensation based on hypothetical  and speculative  situations. Mr Os flight  was 
booked in December  2017 and his accommodation was booked  in April 2018.  So Im 
satisfied he had no planned work  commitments for the period when hed be abroad. 
Mr Os also said he lost income  because he needed to attend  a branch on 29 August to 
unlock his debit  card. But, I havent  seen any evidence that he had to cancel work 
commitments on that date or that he lost income as a result of attending the branch.
As I said earlier,  Metro has already accepted  it made a mistake and provided poor service. 
Ive assessed  whether  the level of compensation it offered  Mr O appropriately recognises 
what happened. Mr O was inconvenienced  and I dont doubt  he experienced unnecessary 
worry and anxiety during his holiday  while he had no access  to his money. But I think  Metro 
did all it could to resolve the error it made.  And I think the £200 its offered  to compensate  
him for the trouble and upset this caused  is fair to recognise the impact this had on him. 
I know Mr O has previously indicated he wanted  compensation to cover the cost of his 
holiday. But I dont  think it would be fair to tell Metro to pay this - for the reasons Ive given. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr O, I think the amount he has already been offered by 
Metro to resolve his complaint is fair reasonable. So Im not going to ask it to do anymore 
here. If Mr O would now like to accept Metros compensation  offer he should contact it 
directly.
Ref: DRN61927683my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as Metro Bank PLC has already done 
enough to resolve  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6192768