K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (Shop  Direct) continually  
increased the credit limit on her shopping account. She says this lending  was irresponsible 
and led to her being  unable  to afford  the repayments. 
background
When Miss H first opened a shopping account  with Shop Direct, her credit  limit was set at 
£750. Over the following  three years, the limit was increased multiples  times,  peaking at 
£3,200. 
Shop Direct said it increased Miss Hs credit  limit until some potential risk was identified  
through a credit check it performed  in 2014.  After  this it decreased her limit and didnt make 
any further increases.  In 2015, Miss H missed  two of her monthly payments, so Shop Direct  
decreased the limit further.
Miss H told Shop Direct  she was in financial difficulties in April 2015  and asked for 
a repayment plan. She said she offered  to repay  £50 per month  as this was the most she 
could afford  at the time.  She said Shop Direct  declined this amount saying it was too low. In 
July 2015 a repayment amount of £119 per month was agreed  instead. However Miss H has 
said she couldnt afford to pay that much, and managed to make only one repayment, which 
was slightly higher than the agreed amount. 
Miss H said she set up repayment plans of £50 per month with other  lenders around  the 
same time. She said it was inevitable that she would  be unable  to keep up with the 
repayment plan put in place by Shop Direct,  as she couldnt afford the repayment  amount. 
And she said she found this upsetting as she was trying to regain  control  of her finances. 
In January 2016, Shop Direct informed Miss H of its intention to default her account  because 
shed made  no repayments  since August 2015 and hadnt responded to their 
correspondence about this. Miss H said she was unable  to pay more  than £30 per month at 
that time,  and asked  Shop Direct to freeze charges and interest on her account. Shop Direct 
froze the interest and charges, and defaulted  Miss Hs account  in February 2016. It then sold 
the debt on to a third party.  
Miss H made a complaint to Shop Direct. She said she thought it had lent to her 
irresponsibly. She said the credit limit increases  encouraged her to keep placing orders,  
increasing the amount she owed and the minimum amount she needed  to pay every  month.  
And she said she began to struggle to keep up with the repayments. 
Shop Direct said it didnt  think it had done  anything  wrong. It said its terms and conditions 
allow it to vary a customers credit limit at any time. It said whenever it increased Miss Hs 
credit limit, it first checked if she had been making  her existing payments on time.  And it 
checked available data from credit referencing agencies. It also referred to the occasions 
when it had decreased Miss Hs credit limit, either due to missed  payments or because of 
adverse credit reference agency data. It said it had treated Miss H positively and 
sympathetically once  it became aware of her financial difficulties. 
Unhappy with Shop Directs response, Miss H brought her complaint to our service. And so 
its for me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN64770772Shop Direct had made  an offer to Miss H to refund £127.74, which it said was relating to the 
interest and charges applied to her account from October 2015 onwards. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
credit limit increases 
Information appeared on Miss Hs credit file between October  2013  and January 
2014, showing an increasing number of pay day loans and a missed  payment on 
other lending. So I thought it was unreasonable for Shop Direct  to increase Miss Hs 
credit limit during  that period. 
I was satisfied, based on the information available to Shop Direct about Miss Hs 
credit history,  that the increases it made to her credit limit up to July 2013 and a limit 
of £2,300 werent irresponsible. So as Miss H didnt spend over £2,300 at any point, 
including interest and charges, I didnt think she was disadvantaged by the additional 
increases Shop  Direct  later made  to her credit limit. 
financial difficulties 
Based  on the evidence Id seen of the actions taken by Shop Direct, I thought it could 
have done more to act positively and sympathetically towards Miss H after she made 
it aware of her financial situation.  And I recognised that Miss H was upset about 
being unable  to arrange a more affordable repayment plan. 
I said that the repayment plan amount of £119 exceeded the minimum repayment  
amount Miss H had previously been required to pay, shed missed her last payment 
and she said she told Shop Direct she could only afford to pay £50 a month. So 
I thought that could  have indicated to Shop Direct that it wasnt  sustainable for 
Miss H to pay the amount it proposed.
I said Shop Direct could have done more  to assist Miss H when she first got in touch, 
asking for help. And it was unclear to me why Shop Direct chose to default the 
account in February 2016, rather than at an earlier  point.  
Based  on the information Id seen about Miss Hs other debts, and because  some 
months later she told Shop Direct  she could  only afford to pay £30 per month, 
I thought this indicated she may have been unable  to keep up the £50 repayment she 
originally suggested.
Id kept in mind  that lenders arent  expected to accept any repayment proposal, 
regardless of the amount,  or hold off defaulting  an account indefinitely.  And overall, 
I thought Shop Direct would  likely have still ended up defaulting the account  even  if it 
had done more to properly assess Miss Hs financial position and act positively and 
sympathetically in April 2015. 
The relationship  between Miss H and Shop Direct had broken  down  by June 2015 as 
two payments had been missed and a suitable  repayment plan hadnt been agreed. 
Because of this, and in accordance with the ICOs guidance about registering 
defaults, I thought  Miss Hs account should have been defaulted within six months   
Ref: DRN64770773so by the end of December 2015. This is two months earlier than the default  date 
currently recorded by Shop  Direct.  
To put things right, I said Shop Direct should  amend  the date of the default it reported  
to the credit reference agencies  to 21 December 2015. And also pay Miss H £150 in 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Shop  Direct had already  offered  to make a refund  which it said equalled the interest 
and charges it applied from October 2015  onwards.  But it was unclear to me why 
Shop Direct had chosen that date. That remedy was available  to Shop Direct  when  it 
first became aware  Miss H was in financial difficulties and Id already concluded it 
didnt do enough  to help her. In the circumstances, I thought it should refund all 
interest and charges  added to her account after 17 April 2015. 
As the debt has been sold to a third party debt management company, I said Shop 
Direct will need to get in touch  with that company directly to arrange  for Miss Hs 
outstanding balance to be reduced  by the amount of interest and charges Ive said 
should be refunded. 
 
the response to my provisional  decision
Miss H responded  to my provisional decision.  She disagreed that shed  not been 
disadvantaged by the credit limit increases, but said she accepted  the provisional decision.  
Shop Direct also responded and accepted  the provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted what I said, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I direct Shop  Direct Finance Company 
Limited to do the following:  
refund  all interest and charges added to Miss Hs account  after 17 April 2015; 
amend the date of the default to 21 December 2015 on all external databases; and
pay £150 in compensation for the material distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6477077