1complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) and its agents
have handled  her home insurance claim and with what RSA has offered in settlement.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 23 October  2018  in which  I set out the background to this 
complaint. I havent  gone into it in detail in this final decision. But, in summary Mrs S suffered a 
significant escape of water  early in 2017, which caused extensive damage to her home. She 
wasnt happy with the way RSA was handling the claim  and complained to us. One of our 
investigators considered  her complaint  and proposed a revised settlement. Mrs S wasnt  happy 
with this and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  what  I intended  to award. I did not give a specific  figure 
for everything, but indicated  I would  like to make an award in the final decision that covered 
every aspect and would bring  the complaint to a conclusion. 
The settlement  I suggested  in my provisional decision was as follows:
pay Mrs S £20,000  to cover the cost of repairing the damage to her property;
pay Mrs S £10,000  for the work  required to the electrics  and plumbing at her home;
pay Mrs S £19,520.30  for her damaged  contents;
pay Mrs S alternative accommodation  costs  at £575 per week from the point 
she rented her flat to four months  from the date of my final decision, less any 
amount  already  paid in this regard;
pay Mrs S £6,338.40  for removals  and storage;
pay Mrs S £30 per week for additional  laundry costs from the time she went 
into her rented flat to four months from the date of my final decision;
pay Mrs S £20 per week  for additional fuel costs from the time she went into 
her rented  flat to four months from the date of my final decision;
pay Mrs S £20 per week  to cover  the cost of her internet access  from the time 
she went  into her rented flat to four months  from the date of my final decision;
pay Mrs S a one off payment of £1,000  towards the extra  costs she's  incurred 
for utilities;
pay Mrs S an extra £7.50  per day for the additional meal costs for the period  she 
was in a hotel.  I make this £877.50 based  on 112 days.
pay Mrs S £300  towards  her loan interest;
pay Mrs S £2,500  in compensation  for distress and inconvenience; and
RSA should pay interest at 8% per annum simple on the amount due for 
damaged  contents  from the date they were  damaged to the date they pay Mrs 
S the amount  due.
responses to my provisional  decision
RSA didnt comment substantively on my provisional decision. 
Mrs S responded to my provisional decision in great  detail. And Ive considered all her 
comments very carefully. For the sake of ease, Ive just summarised  the main points shes 
made below.  
Ref: DRN69611532She doesnt think the amount I suggested for the repairs  needed to her home is 
anywhere near enough to enable her to get the work done. She feels its RSAs  fault 
that shes got to use her own contractor and she feels she should receive what  it will 
cost her to get the work  done. 
She doesnt think I have taken  into account all of her damaged  contents  when 
calculating the amount  due. She thinks Ive overlooked items listed  on certain  
spreadsheets and what  RSA has allowed  for other items is unrealistic. She also feels  
she should be allowed  something  for items that werent properly listed and items she 
later realised  had been stolen from her garden. 
She thinks certain items listed as contents  like light fittings  should  be included  in the 
settlement amount  for contents, not just left for her to have to fund using what  she gets 
for building  repairs.  
She feels the delays  with her claim and the way RSA has handled it, led to her having  
to borrow a significant amount of money.  She feels RSA should  be made to cover the 
cost to her of doing this. 
She feels she should receive  the money to cover all the extra  amounts shes had to pay 
out and will continue  to pay for things like utilities, council tax, laundry etc.
She thinks the amount allowed for extra  costs  should reflect the fact these will continue 
for a significant period. And this will be longer than I suggested in my provisional 
decision. 
Shed  like more to cover storage costs,  as she feels her remaining  contents  will need to 
be in storage for at least four months.  
Shes pointed out it will cost her more  than £500 to cover  the cost of the damage to her 
fence and garden caused by RSAs contractors.
She feels she should get interest  on the full amounts due to her for both building repairs  
and damaged contents. 
She feels she should get a lot more than the £2,500 I suggested in compensation in 
view of the tremendous  level of distress the claim and the way RSA has handled it has 
caused her.
After I reviewed her response, I asked Mrs S to provide some further evidence  to help me get a 
better picture of how the way the claim had been handled had impacted on her financially. 
Shes provided some evidence, but not everything  I would have liked her to provide. 
After further representations from me following Mrs Ss response  to my provisional decision, 
RSA has made an interim  payment  of £56,000  for the cost of the repair  work  (including work to 
electrics and plumbing)  to enable Mrs S to get on with organising  with the contractor  to do the 
work. I appreciate theres now been  further damage at Mrs Ss home, but I cant comment  on 
this or take it into account in the settlement I think is fair and reasonable as part of this 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
building repairs
Ive considered Mrs Ss concerns about the amount Ive suggested for building  repairs  and  on 
reflection  I agree RSA should pay an amount  based  on what  the contractor she chose to 
provide an estimate  has quoted. This is because its clear RSAs  agents and contractors did a 
very poor job in estimating the cost of repairs. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, they 
omitted the shower  room altogether and got the size of one of the bedrooms wrong. They also 
omitted other items  like a waterproof  membrane for the damaged floor. They  also dont  seem  to 
have considered allowing a reasonable amount for replacement  of the kitchen tiles that cant  be 
matched. Plus,  they dont  appear to have  inspected the loft, certainly not originally anyway.  
Ref: DRN69611533And I dont  think they properly reviewed the impact  of the escape of water  on the electrics. I 
say this, as Mrs Ss contractor suggested  they needed replacing as theyre  not safe, whereas 
RSAs contractor didnt  suggest this, which seems  odd. 
I think the main reason  for the delays on the repair work starting was RSAs  agents not doing a 
proper review and providing a realistic estimate, despite Mrs S raising her concerns from the 
outset. I appreciate RSAs  policy limits  whats due to what it would cost it to have repairs  
carried out, but relations have broken down and I dont think thats a realistic  option here. 
So  as Ive said - I think the amount  RSA should pay should  be based on the amount quoted  
by Mrs Ss contractor. So, having thought about it very carefully, I now think RSA should pay 
£40,000 for building repairs. I appreciate the estimate was done  a while  back. And theres no 
contingency sum. But, I think £40,000 is a realistic amount for the repairs overall. 
plumbing and electrics
I have checked  the quote  provided by Mrs Ss contractor again  and I can see they did say the 
boiler circuit  was damaged by the escape  of water and this means the boiler  has to be 
replaced. So, I accept  this is covered and their estimate looks reasonable.  I can also see the 
rest of the electrical and plumbing work  is needed as a result of the escape  of water,  based  on 
what the contractor  has said and the extent  of the damage mentioned by the loss adjuster. Ive 
also seen pictures provided  by Mrs S, which show the problems with the two toilets,  which I 
think show these do need to be replaced. So, bearing in mind what Ive said about the reasons 
for delay  in repair work starting, I now think the amount RSA should pay should be based on 
the amount estimated by Mrs Ss contractor. I think £16,000 is appropriate. And I think  this is 
enough to cover the additional items Mrs S has mentioned were listed as part of the contents, 
like bedroom lights and extractor fans.  This means I dont think  these  do need to be added  to 
the amount payable  for contents.
This makes the total amount for building repairs, including  plumbing and electrics is £56,000. I 
As Ive said,  RSA has already paid this and Im satisfied it represents a fair and reasonable 
settlement to this part of Mrs S claim. 
the settlement  amount for damaged contents
I have noted all Mrs S concerns about  the damaged  contents. Firstly, I wish to make it clear  I 
did not think the items on the BER Ex sheets were  the items  stolen from her garden.  But I do 
agree some items were missed off the sheets  RSA used to calculate the settlement. Ive 
calculated these to have a replacement cost of £1,090 in total (rounded up). So I think  RSA 
should pay this amount  in addition to what it has offered  for contents.
RSAs offer  excluding  the items missed off the lists - reflects  what it thinks  the actual 
replacement costs of items are based on research, not what Mrs S has listed as the 
replacement costs. And Im satisfied  what its offered in this regard is fair. 
Its impossible  to know what  items  were taken  from Mrs Ss garden. And Ive also noted  some 
books and other items may not have all been included. So I think an amount should be allowed 
for all these items. So I think RSA should pay £500 for the items that went missing  or werent  
listed and also £600 for damaged carpets.  
Ive also noted  RSA has only listed 164 normal books against  the 198 listed  by Mrs S. I have 
no reason to doubt Mrs Ss number and Im allowing £10 each  for these  which  means theres 
a further payment due of £340  for these.
Ref: DRN69611534I can also see RSA has only allowed £735  for 92 higher value books (noted as books with 
prices inside the books). But I think Mrs S suggested replacement  cost of an average of £30 
each is more realistic. So, Ive decided to allow a further £2,025 for these.
It looks like RSA also paid an additional amount  for freezer  contents of £50, which doesnt 
need to be deducted, as it was an additional loss covered  by Mrs Ss policy. 
This means  the additional  amount due for contents is £24,075, including the £600 for carpets.
alternative accommodation
I asked Mrs S to provide  further evidence to show her actual payments made for alternative  
accommodation, but shes not provided this. However, RSA hasnt disputed  the weekly amount 
shes been paying for this and its already paid towards it. Plus, its liable under the policy for 
the cost of a similar  property, which would probably be around £2,000 per month in the area 
Mrs Ss house is in. So, I see no reason not to base the payment for this on what  Mrs S has 
said shes agreed with her friend to stay in his flat, provided she can provide evidence to show 
shes paying this amount,  which Ill return to later. The amount is £575 per week. And  as Ive 
already explained  I think the problems with this claim are in the main due to poor handling by 
RSAs agents,  so I do think RSA should  pay for alternative accommodation  until Mrs S should 
be in a position to move back  into her property based on the work required following the 
escape of water in early  2017. I cannot allow anything extra for delays caused by the further 
damage that has occurred  recently, as that will form part of a separate  claim. If this delays 
things further, RSA will no doubt  consider a further  payment for loss of rent if it feels its 
appropriate as part of the new claim Mrs S has made. 
But RSA has now made what I consider to be a fair and reasonable payment for the building 
repairs of £56,000,  so I think its appropriate  for me to set a cut-off  point for what  it has to pay 
for alternative accommodation and associated costs for the claim this decision deals with 
following the escape of water in early 2017.
Mrs S has said shell  need at least six months to organise the contractor  and associated  things 
like storage. But, having thought about what shes said,  Ive decided its fair and reasonable to 
make RSA pay for alternative  accommodation  up until the end of July 2019. I think this should 
allow enough time for any work  resulting the escape  of water in early 2017 to be organised and 
carried out if Mrs S accepts my final decision.  I think its better for both parties  if RSA pays  the 
amount due until the end of July 2019 up front, as this will finalise this complaint and bring 
closure for Mrs S and RSA. And  for this reason  I think its fair and reasonable, subject  to 
evidence Mrs S has to pay this amount.
I havent actually  seen any documentary evidence to show Mrs S has actually  paid £575  per 
week to the landlord,  who is a friend  of hers or to show she will continue  to have to pay this 
amount. So, my award for alternative  accommodation costs  is subject to Mrs S providing RSA 
with a letter from the landlord  and signed  by him confirming the arrangement  and confirming 
that Mrs S has been paying him £575 per week since  June 2017  and will continue  to pay this 
until she leaves the flat. It is also subject to Mrs S providing evidence shes actually been 
paying out for alternative accommodation. She can do this by providing bank statements 
showing the payments  or the cash withdrawals  if shes paid amounts in cash.
service charges
Mrs S has provided evidence to show the service charge she has to pay at her rented 
accommodation is £114.50 per month and Ive no reason  to doubt this. So I think  RSA should 
pay this until the end of July 2019 as well. Again, it should pay whats due to the date of this 
Ref: DRN69611535decision, less what its already paid. And  again  to bring finality, I think  its fair and reasonable 
for RSA to pay this amount up front. 
removal and storage costs
Neither RSA nor Mrs S have disputed the amount  I suggested in my provisional  decision of for 
the cost of removal. But Mrs S has said she thinks she needs at least four months  storage. 
Bearing in mind some time will pass between  items  being removed to storage and back in due 
to logistics, I think an extra four weeks is reasonable. So Ive decided  RSA should pay a further 
£320 (£80 per week for storage). This makes the total amount payable for removal  and storage 
£6,658.40.
utilities
Mrs S has explained why shes had to pay more  for utilities at her temporary  address and shes  
provided a detailed explanation as to why its costing her over £180 more for gas, water  and 
electricity as a result  of her being  in temporary  accommodation. And having carefully reviewed 
what Mrs S has helpfully  set out in response  to my provisional decision, I can now see much 
more clearly why this is. This is an additional cost of her temporary accommodation and is 
covered by Mrs Ss policy. So I now think RSA should cover these costs  up until the repairs to 
her home should be completed.  Im allowing £10 extra per month for gas, £136 extra  per month  
for electricity and an extra £39 per month  for water. Again I think  all these payments should be 
made up front.    
council tax
I accept Council Tax is payable at both Mrs Ss own property and the one shes  renting. And it 
looks like she will have  to pay a higher amount  for her unoccupied house once its been 
unoccupied for two years. This is also an additional  accommodation cost and is covered by her 
policy. Mrs S has set out how the additional cost is around £130 per month. And  while  this is 
a large amount, she has provided evidence to support it. So  again  I think  its fair for RSA to 
pay £130 per month up until July 2019.
other additional costs
I see no reason to change  the amount I suggested  in my provisional decision for the internet 
dongle (£20 per month). And what I suggested for fence repairs (£500) still seems fair. But Ive 
noted Mrs S had to have  some emergency repairs done on her fence and will need to renew  
her garden after contents were stored  in it. So Ive added £300 for this, making the amount due 
£800 in total. 
I have however decided only to award £10 per week for laundry costs from when Mrs S went 
into her rented flat. I appreciate it hasnt  got a washing machine, but paying out £30 per week 
to have washing done instead seems  unreasonable and RSA is only obliged  to pay reasonable 
additional costs.  I appreciate  Mrs S is in a difficult position with her health, but there  must  still 
be cheaper options for her than paying  £30 per week.  
telephone line and television licence
Ive decided not to award  anything for these. As I understand Mrs S shouldnt need  a television 
licence for her empty property, so the cost of it at her rented flat is not an additional expense.  
And I dont  think the rental of a telephone  line is a necessary  and reasonable additional cost 
that is covered  by the policy.
finance charges
Ref: DRN69611536I appreciate Mrs S has been put in a difficult position  financially due to the additional costs  
shes incurred. But without seeing her bank statements,  its very difficult  for me to get a full 
picture of the impact  on her financial position.  She has taken two loans and has explained she 
has a large overdraft. And I can see that she has had to pay out a large amount  due to not 
having regular  payments  for additional expenses,  like rent, from RSA. So I think  the finance is 
likely to have been necessary to cover these costs.  But in the absence  of a full financial picture 
from I think the easiest way to address this is a one off payment. Mrs S has suggested the cost 
of the loans combined is over £5,000 and that shes been paying £14 per day overdraft  
charges. But the loans  can be paid off early once she has a full payment from RSA and  as 
Ive said  I havent seen her full financial picture to understand whether there were other less 
expensive options  available to her. That said, I think this is unlikely, so as a fair and reasonable 
outcome Ive decided  to award £2,500 towards  the cost of finance. But, this is again subject to 
evidence that shes been paying out for alternative  accommodation, as this is the main 
additional cost shes faced. 
additional meal  costs
I have noted what  Mrs S has said on this point  in response to my provisional decision,  but I still 
think an additional £7.50 per day is appropriate  for this. I make  the period Mrs S was in a hotel 
117 days, which means  shes  due a further  £877.50 for this.
additional fuel costs
Mrs S has suggested the cost of extra fuel went up once  she moved to her rented  flat, but I 
have considered what a reasonable additional cost is overall.  I think  £20 extra  per week  is 
reasonable in the circumstances. This is an additional cost of alternative accommodation, so I 
think it is covered, but the cost has to be reasonable and I think  £20 per week on average  is. 
compensation for distress and inconvenience
Ive noted what  Mrs S has said in response  to my provisional decision on this and I fully 
appreciate she thinks  I should award  more than £2,500.  But, we provide an informal service 
and this is a very significant award. And Im satisfied  £2,500 is appropriate for the level of 
distress and inconvenience Mrs S has experienced. 
interest on payments
I still dont think RSA should have to pay interest  on the amount payable for building repairs.  
The idea of interest is to allow for the fact a person has been deprived of funds, they would 
have otherwise had. If Mrs S had had the money for the building  repairs,  she have had to 
spend it on the repairs required fairly  soon  after getting it, so I dont think  she actually been 
deprived of these funds,  so Im not going  to make  RSA pay interest in this particular  case. 
But I do think RSA should pay interest  on whats due for contents  at our normal rate of eight 
percent per annum simple. This is because Mrs S wouldnt have to spend the money  on 
replacing the contents  or at least not all of them. Its more  to compensate her for what shes  
lost. 
putting things  right
In summary  and for the reasons Ive explained,  Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and 
make RSA pay the following, less what it has already  paid for any of these items:
Ref: DRN69611537£24,075 for damaged contents including  carpets, plus interest at 8% per annum simple  
from the date they were  damaged to the date of actual  payment;
£64,400  for alternative accommodation  based  on £575 per week  from when Mrs S 
went into her rented  flat to the last week  of July 2019  112 weeks.  The payment for 
this is subject to Mrs S providing  a letter from the landlord  confirming  the arrangement 
and evidence confirming that she has been paying  him £575 per week since  June 2017 
and that she will continue  to do so until she leaves  the flat;
£6,658.40  for removal and storage  costs;
£2,862.50  for services  charges at her rented flat based on £114.30  per month  from the 
date she rented it up until the end of July, less anything  its already paid for this  25 
months;
£4,875 for the additional  costs  of utilities, as a result of Mrs S being in her rented flat, as 
set out above;
£2,560 for the cost of additional fuel as a result  of Mrs S being in alternative  
accommodation;
£520 for internet costs at Mrs Ss rented property from the date she rented it up until the 
end of July, based  on £20 per month;
£1,630 for laundry costs as a result of Mrs S being in a hotel and rented 
accommodation;
£800 for repairs to the fence and garden;
£870 for additional meal costs; 
£2,500 towards  finance costs, subject to evidence  Mrs S has been paying £575  for 
alternative accommodation; and
£2,500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience
This makes the total amount payable excluding alternative accommodation and finance costs 
£49,992.90. RSA has already paid £223.79 towards water and electricity costs,  so this needs  
to be deducted.  This makes the total amount payable excluding  alternative accommodation 
costs and finance costs £49,769.11.
The total amount  payable  for alternative accommodation is £64,400, less the £8,433.33 already 
paid for this by RSA,  making the amount due £55,966.67. Theres also the £2,500 for finance 
charges. This makes a further  payment  of £58,466.67.  But, this payment is subject to Mrs S 
providing evidence  of the arrangement at £575 per week for alternative accommodation with 
her landlord,  as well as evidence she has actually been paying it as set out above. 
Ive not awarded  anything  for building repairs (including electrics),  as RSA has already paid 
£56,000 for these,  which I think is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN69611538my final decision 
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint  and order Royal  and Sun Alliance 
Plc to pay Mrs S the following:
£49,769.11 for costs, excluding alternative  accommodation and the cost of finance; 
Interest on the amount  due for contents  at eight per cent per annum simple  from the 
date of the escape of water at Mrs S home  to the date of actual payment; 1and
£58,466.67 for alternative accommodation  and the cost of finance, subject to Mrs S 
providing the evidence Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019
Robert Short
ombudsman
1 If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how 
much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs S a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6961153