K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about how Zurich Insurance  PLC and its agents  handled  their claim 
on their home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs W had a home insurance policy with Zurich. In June  2018  they discovered  a leak 
from their bathroom and made a claim. Over  the next few months  there were two further 
leaks, one from the bathroom again  and another caused by their immersion tank bursting. 
Zurich took on all three claims.  
At the end of October  2018 Mr and Mrs W were  moved into alternative  accommodation  so 
that repair work could  begin. It was intended that they would stay there until the work  was 
completed and the completion date was given  as 21 December 2018. However in December 
Zurichs contractor said it wouldnt be able to get the materials needed for the floors until 
January 2019,  so the completion  would be delayed. By this time the rental property Mr and 
Mrs W were staying at had taken another booking so they had to move back  into the house 
before the work was completed.
Zurich offered £480 disturbance allowance  to recognise the poor living  conditions  they would 
have to tolerate  due to not being  able to extend the alternative accommodation.
Once Mr and Mrs W were  moved  back in, the contractors were delayed  starting  work  as at 
first they said they couldnt complete work  while Mr and Mrs W were living at the property.  
After some back  and forth they agreed  Mr and Mrs W would just need to move  out for a few 
days while the floors were replaced  but they would complete the rest of the work while they 
were there. 
In the months  that followed Mr and Mrs W experienced  a number of problems with the claim. 
They raised each  one with Zurich and action was taken to rectify each one.
However after Zurichs contractors fixed a problem with the taps, there was a leak through 
the kitchen ceiling. Zurichs contractors attended  to fix the leak and dry the affected area, 
and repair  work begun.  However after this was finished  Mr and Mrs W reported  another  leak 
in the same area. 
Shortly after this a leak detection company attended and they identified  that the leak was 
coming from the shower as it hadnt been sealed  correctly. This was redone but Mr and 
Mrs W were unhappy  with how it looked.  Zurich agreed it hadnt been  done well and offered 
a cash settlement so the work could be done again. 
In October  2019 Mr and Mrs W experienced another leak, this time a leak detection 
company said it was due to the grouting in the bathroom that had been applied  by the 
contractors.  They said the same grouting had been  applied in the guest bathroom so they 
thought both should be replaced. 
Throughout the claim Mr and Mrs W made  a number  of complaints. They  said they had 
experienced a number  of issues with Zurichs contractors  and each one they had to do a lot 
of work to get resolved.  They had to live in the house while work was carried out and 
experienced further leaks due to poor workmanship  by the contractors.
Ref: DRN67610432In response to these  complaints, Zurich made a number of compensation payments 
throughout the claim as problems arose. These  amounted to £1,150, plus the £480 paid as 
disturbance allowance after Mr and Mrs W were  forced to move back into the property. 
However Mr and Mrs W werent happy  with what had been offered  as they said it didnt 
make up for the distress and inconvenience  it had caused. They said it had been  particularly 
stressful as Mrs W had been  pregnant and gave  birth during this time.  They  brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  He 
said he could see Zurich  had caused Mr and Mrs W significant distress and inconvenience  
throughout the claim and recommended it pay a total of £1,500 compensation, including  any 
compensation already offered.
Mr and Mrs W accepted our investigators recommendation. However Zurich didnt agree. It 
said it had already offered more than this if disturbance allowance was included in the 
calculation, so it thought this was enough to make  up for the distress and inconvenience  it 
caused. 
As Zurich didnt agree with our investigators  opinion, the matter has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From reviewing the correspondence  relating  to this claim, its clear that it has taken much  
longer to resolve than it should  have  done.  And there have been a number of delays that 
were a direct result of poor work done by Zurichs  agents. Zurich has accepted  its agents 
have made  a number  of mistakes and has offered compensation throughout the claim. I 
need to decide if it has done  enough  to make  up for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused Mr and Mrs W.  
When the claim was first made in June 2018  it was progressed promptly.  There  was some 
difficulty finding alternative accommodation due to the fact it needed to accept pets, but once 
something suitable was found, Mr and Mrs W moved out and work began. 
However, after this stage, there were a number of issues.  Firstly  the completion date for 
repair work was originally set for late December 2018. However the material required for the 
replacement flooring wasnt ordered  until December  and Zurichs agent wasnt  able to obtain 
this until January the following year. This meant the completion date was delayed.  However 
by this stage the accommodation was due to expire  and another booking had been accepted 
by the landlord.  So Mr and Mrs W had to move  back into the house while work continued. 
Zurich offered £480 disturbance allowance  to Mr and Mrs W due to the fact they had to live 
in poor conditions. Given that alternative accommodation was proving more  difficult  to 
source due to their pet, I think this was sufficient as an alternative.
Mrs W explained that there was extensive work  going on in the house that meant they were 
confined to only the bedroom  and the spare room. Considering she was pregnant,  this would 
have been distressing and inconvenient.  
Ref: DRN67610433Once they were  moved back into their home, work  was due to begin.  However  Zurichs  
agents initially didnt  agree to start work as they said they couldnt complete it while Mr and 
Mrs W were living  in the property. This caused  a further delay to the completion date.
Once work  had commenced, there  were  a number of errors made by Zurichs agents. This 
included, but was not limited to:
damage  caused  to the fire hearth, 
the built in wardrobe  in the hallway had significant water damage  but was left without 
being fixed and developed mould,  
the shower  door was installed backwards 
the hot and cold taps were fixed in the opposite  positions. 
With each one of these problems, once identified,  action was taken for it to be rectified. 
However each time, Mr and Mrs W had to go to some trouble to prove there was a problem,  
raise the issue and work with Zurich and its agent  to get it fixed.  And some of the work had 
to be redone more than once before  it was effective. Considering  the number of errors made 
this would have  been very inconvenient. 
Further, once Zurichs agent returned to fix the problem with the hot and cold taps, a further 
leak developed.  This took a number of months to resolve as Zurichs  agent provided fixes, 
but the problem remained.  This wasnt rectified until Zurich agreed a leak specialist could 
attend and the real problem was identified. The problems was with the sealant on the 
shower  another problem that had been  caused  by poor workmanship by Zurichs agent. 
After this the shower sealant was redone. But from looking at photos provided  by Mr and 
Mrs W this was poorly applied. Zurich agreed  and offered to cash  settle  so they could get the 
sealant redone themselves. After this another  leak occurred that was identified  as problems 
with the grouting  in the bathroom.  At the point this complaint came to me, this issue still 
hadnt been fully resolved.
From reviewing the timeline of the claim,  Zurich originally estimated the initial repairs  would  
be completed by December 2018.  However, nearly  a year after this date, problems were still 
being resolved.  From  what  Ive seen this additional time is almost  entirely  due to mistakes 
and poor workmanship  form Zurichs  agents. It seems the time taken to rectify those errors 
was significantly more  than the time the original  repairs would have taken.
I have considered the impact this has had on Mr and Mrs W. I can see from the emails  
provided that every time a problem has arisen, they have  raised  it with Zurich. And although 
Zurich has accepted the problems and taken action to resolve each one, each time it has 
taken Mr and Mrs W some time it to agree to this. Almost every time two emails were 
required before  an answer was provided. Considering the number of errors this would have 
been very inconvenient.
Further Mrs W has explained that she was pregnant  throughout  a lot of the claim, and gave 
birth in summer 2019. And she has told us that she has asthma  and was concerned the 
effects some of the water damage, and developing mould,  was having on her asthma and 
the unborn baby.  I understand this would have been very distressing. 
Considering the number  of errors  made, the amount  of time Mr and Mrs W had to put into 
getting resolutions, and the distress and inconvenience this would have caused, I agree with 
our investigator that Zurich should pay £1,500 compensation to make  up for it.
Ref: DRN67610434Zurich has said that it has already paid more than this amount, if the disturbance allowance 
is taken into account.  It says the policy  doesnt  cover for disturbance allowance, so this was 
a form of compensation. While I agree the policy doesnt provide  cover for disturbance 
allowance, I dont agree  it should be considered  as part of the compensation award  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. The policy does provide cover for alternative  
accommodation. And, if it had been  possible to extend Mr and Mrs Ws stay in the rental  
property this would have been  done  and covered under the policy. As this wasnt possible, 
disturbance allowance was offered. I agree this was right, and in line with our approach, as 
an alternative, particularly as the living conditions were poor, especially for a pregnant  
woman. So I think this should  be paid in addition to the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Zurich has shown that it has already made  payments of compensation that amount to 
£1,150. Therefore I will require it to pay an additional £350 to bring the total to £1,500.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Mr and Mrs W an 
additional £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused them, to 
bring the total compensation to £1,500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2021.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6761043