K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy he didnt receive  the incentive  on offer when he switched his current 
account to Nationwide Building  Society. 
background
Mr Bs friend had an account with Nationwide  so they looked  to use Nationwides  
Recommend a Friend scheme  where if Mr B switched his current account to Nationwide,  
they could share £200. 
Mr B switched his account on 6 April 2018.  He went into branch on 28 June 2018, as he 
hadnt received  the incentive.  Nationwide explained  that he hadnt completed the relevant 
form, and given the time that had passed,  it was now too late for him to do so. 
Mr B made a complaint about this  he said he did complete the form. Nationwide didnt 
change their mind, so he raised  his concerns with our service. 
On 10 December 2018, I sent a provisional  decision.  This explained that I thought 
Nationwide was clear  about what Mr B needed  to do to get the incentive on offer. And that, 
from the evidence  I had seen, I wasnt satisfied that Mr B completed the relevant form. So I 
didnt consider that Nationwide did anything wrong. 
Nationwide didnt have  anything further  to add. Mr B replied  in summary: 
Nationwide led him to believe that he would  receive £100,  along with his friend   and 
the fact Nationwide wrote down the reference on the paperwork shows a promise 
was made. 
Customer care should trump  that of the small  print. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I do appreciate Mr Bs frustration here. But as I explained before, I could only ask Nationwide 
to pay the incentive if I was satisfied it had done  something  wrong. To be clear, Ive no 
power to compel  Nationwide to do things as a gesture of its good will  those  are decisions 
that only Nationwide could make.  
Here, I dont  think Mr B was unfairly  caught out by the small  print. Because  Im satisfied 
Nationwide was clear  what  he needed to do to get the incentive on offer. That means  I also 
dont agree that the handwritten reference  alone  meant Nationwide  should pay  because 
from everything Ive seen, I think it was clear  that there were further steps Mr B needed  to 
take. 
Overall, Ive not changed my mind about  the outcome  of this complaint. For completeness, 
Ive explained  my reasoning again below. 
The terms and conditions  for Recommend a friend explain that the recommender will be 
sent an email which  includes a link to give to the friend theyre recommending.  To qualify for 
the offer, the friend needs to switch  their account  where theyll be given a reference  number.  
Theyll then need to use the link given to them to access the recommendation form and enter  
Ref: DRN61532162the reference number. The terms and conditions  state that the full switch  must  be 
completed and the recommendation form must be submitted within  90 days after the start 
date shown on the recommendation form. 
The staff member from Nationwides  branch  that dealt with Mr Bs switch said that she 
wouldve explained the next steps to him. I cant be sure what he was told, but I dont need 
to be  civil disputes like these are decided on the balance of probabilities  i.e. whats  more  
likely than not. Here, I can see that the reference number was handwritten on the paperwork 
that Mr B took away from the branch. Because thats what Mr B needed to enter on the form, 
I think its likely they discussed  the next steps about how to get the incentive.  
Ive also seen a copy of Nationwides flowchart for the Recommend a Friend  scheme.  This 
explains that emails  are sent to the recommender 30 and 60 days after the recommendation 
 to remind them that the form hasnt  yet been completed by the friend. I think its likely 
these would been sent to Mr Bs friend, as it seems its all part of an automated process. 
So in all, I think Nationwide  through their terms and conditions,  discussions in branch, and 
email reminders  made it clear what needed to happen to get the incentive. 
Mr B said he did complete the form. So I asked Nationwide for what  it relied  on. Its shown 
me screenshots of searches on its internal systems,  and its explained what  wouldve come 
up if it had been  completed. So Im satisfied the form wasnt completed as it shouldve  been. 
In saying this, Ive considered the emails  that Mr B has shared with us  between him and 
his friend.  One is from July 2018   so after the timeframe for the incentive. The other  email  is 
from 28 March 2018 and seems to be in reply to a message from Mr Bs friend  about  the 
incentive. Mr B wrote  that Nationwide gave him the switch reference number and hell copy  it 
tomorrow as required. While that highlights that Mr B knew what  he needed to do, I dont 
think its persuasive that he did in fact complete  the form.  
Ive also thought about whether Mr B was too late to get the incentive when he went into the 
branch on 28 June 2018. I can see from the date on the paperwork that we was originally in 
branch sorting  the switch on 26 March 2018   so I think the recommendation, and hence  the 
start date on the form, must have been before  that. As thats over 90 days, I think  he was 
out of time. 
I know this means a lot to Mr B, and that he feels its a great injustice  but Im not satisfied 
that Nationwide acted unfairly. 
Ref: DRN61532163my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6153216