K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains, on behalf of herself and her late husband Mr Ls estate, about  poor service  
provided by Aviva Insurance Limited.
All references to Aviva  include the agents it has appointed to handle  claims. 
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 9 June  2020. A copy  of this is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision. In it I set out the background to this complaint, 
and I explained  why I thought it should be partially upheld.  I said I thought Aviva should pay 
Mrs L and the estate of the late Mr L a further £500  compensation  to reflect  the level of 
service it provided and the delays in making payments to settle  this claim.
Aviva responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.  Mrs L, on behalf of herself 
and the late Mr Ls estate, also accepted my provisional decision. But she explained  that she 
was very disappointed by it and still feels grossly mistreated having experienced continuous 
anxiety, panic attacks and post traumatic stress  disorder that she feels was made worse by 
the actions of Aviva.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and in light of the fact 
neither party  has put forward any new evidence or arguments for my consideration, it follows  
that Ive reached  the same conclusions I did in my provisional decision.
The circumstances surrounding  this complaint are very sad. I appreciate this has been  a 
very difficult time for Mrs L and she still feels very strongly that Avivas actions had a 
detrimental impact on herself and the late Mr L. But I still think  an additional £500  
compensation is fair to reflect the impact  of Avivas shortcomings here. And whilst  Im very 
sorry to hear about Mrs Ls ongoing health  problems, as Ive explained in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think I can fairly  conclude that Aviva is directly or solely responsible  for the 
treatment shes required.
my final decision
My final decision is that to reflect the delays  and poor service  provided 
Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mrs L and the estate of Mr L a further £500 
compensation to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64497912copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs L complains,  on behalf of herself and her late husband Mr Ls estate, about poor service provided  
by Aviva Insurance Limited.
All references  to Aviva  include the agents it has appointed  to handle  claims. 
background
In August 2018 Mrs L and the late Mr L were on a trip abroad in Africa  when Mr L was taken ill. Sadly 
Mr L later passed away.
Mrs L complains  about the service she and the late Mr L received when  they contacted  their travel 
insurer for assistance  during this time. Their travel insurance was underwritten by Aviva.  
In summary Mrs L complains  that:
A dedicated expert was not allocated to deal with their claim at the outset
She feels she encountered continued obstruction and lack of ownership  by agents  taking calls 
about the claim
Shes unhappy with the procedure and steps taken to evacuate Mr L when he was taken 
unwell
There were  delays  in hospital admittance and treatment, and Aviva refused to agree  to an air 
evacuation to another hospital 
She feels Aviva lacked an understanding of the situation  and the severity of Mr Ls condition
Prevarication and confusion  by Aviva caused extreme distress to her and Mr L
She feels that herself and Mr L were unfairly  treated by Aviva 
Mrs L has since been  diagnosed with post traumatic stress  disorder (PTSD) which  she says was 
exacerbated by Avivas actions. And shes explained that delays in Aviva  paying this claim meant she 
had to borrow money from relatives.
Aviva said that it didnt  believe its actions had adversely  affected the late Mr Ls position or 
compromised his chances  of recovery.  It explained that the nature of Mrs L and the late Mr Ls travel 
plans had meant this had been a very difficult situation, but said it didnt  feel its assistance team  had 
been found wanting on this occasion. 
As a gesture of goodwill  Aviva later agreed to pay the equivalent cost of economy class flights for a 
Ms M who accompanied Mrs L when she flew home following Mr Ls passing. It also agreed to cover 
the cost of calls Mrs L made to its assistance team even though these fell outside the scope of policy 
cover. And it waived an £100 excess to recognise  that it could have requested some information  from 
Mrs L sooner.
Mrs L wasnt happy with this response  so she referred this complaint to our service. She wants  Aviva 
to apologise and take ownership of its actions. Shes asked for it to pay for the counselling and PTSD 
treatment shes receiving as this is not covered by the NHS. And to pay for the business  class  fare of 
Ms M. She feels  Aviva  should be fined  to reflect its gross  negligence. And she wants it to overhaul its 
procedures to prevent the issues experienced  by her and the late Mr L from happening again.
Our investigator considered what had happened, but didnt feel she could ask Aviva to do anything  
more here. So Mrs L asked for her complaint  to be referred  to an ombudsman. And it is now for me to 
make a decision.
Ref: DRN64497913my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Let me start by saying that Im very sorry for Mrs Ls loss. I appreciate this must be a very difficult time 
for her, and I dont underestimate how strongly she feels about this complaint. When  I refer to Mrs L 
throughout my decision Im doing so in her capacity as both a complainant in her own right,  and as 
the representative  of her late husbands estate.  
I can see Mrs L feels Aviva  ought  to be punished  for its actions  here. So before I set out my decision I 
thought it would be helpful to explain that its not the role of this service to punish  a business. And I 
dont have the power to impose  a fine on a business, even  if I conclude  its made  a mistake.  Rather 
my role is to look at individual complaints, and to decide if a business needs to take any action to put 
things right for a consumer.
Mrs L has raised a number  of complaint  points against Aviva. Having considered  everything that 
happened here, I think  this complaint should be partially upheld. Ill explain why.
lack of dedicated  expert  and ownership  of claim
Mrs L is unhappy that Aviva did not appoint a dedicated expert  to this claim when  Mr Ls health 
problems first arose. I appreciate she had to speak to a number of agents throughout  the duration of 
this claim.  And I dont doubt that this would  have been frustrating at times.  But as our investigator 
explained, Avivas emergency assistance service can be contacted 24 hours  a day, 7 days  a week.  
So I dont think its reasonable to expect that the same one or even two people  would be available to 
accept calls and respond to emails at any time. Its up to Aviva how it structures its assistance service 
and how support is provided. 
I can see there was an occasion where  Mrs Ls messages  went  unanswered for around 13 hours 
overnight. Aviva apologised for this. And I agree  its service it could have  been better here. But 
although I understand  Mrs L also had difficulty contacting Aviva over the telephone on a number of 
occasions, I cant see that this was due to any error  on Avivas part. And I can see there were other 
times when Aviva was tried to contact Mrs L but wasnt able to reach her. Aviva has also shown us 
evidence that demonstrates that a couple of its advisors did subsequently take ownership of Mrs Ls 
claim, even though I appreciate this might not have always been  apparent to Mrs L. So I havent 
found that it treated her unfairly in this respect. 
evacuation and hospital admittance of the late Mr L
Mrs L has also raised a number of more specific concerns with us. In particular shes unhappy  about  
the way Mr Ls initial evacuation and transfer to hospital  was handled. Shes  explained  that this 
journey was made by ground  ambulance.  I understand this took a very long time, and was a very 
uncomfortable experience.
Our investigator said they didnt think that the decision to take the late Mr L to hospital  in this manner 
was made by Aviva. And Ive reached the same conclusion based on the information Ive seen. It 
appears from the contact records Aviva has provided  to us that it was told about the decision to 
evacuate Mr L, the method of transport being used, and the destination  hospital  selected after the 
ambulance had been  dispatched from where  Mrs L and the late Mr L were staying. The third party  
company who informed  it about this does  not appear  to have  been acting on behalf of Aviva in any 
capacity. So I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for any decisions  this third party made. And I dont 
think there is anything Aviva could reasonably  have done about  the nature  of the journey as it would 
have been too late to make alternative arrangements by the time it was aware of the situation. Its 
also explained  that it didnt  challenge the choice of hospital that had been made  as it appeared  to be 
Ref: DRN64497914a reasonable decision based on the limits imposed by location, and the positive reviews the hospital 
had. 
delays in treatment and air ambulance transfer
Its clear Mrs L feels that decisions Aviva did make delayed treatment being provided  to Mr L. And I 
can see shes  unhappy that it didnt respond sooner  to requests she made  to have him transferred to 
another hospital. But again, looking at the evidence provided, I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably 
here. 
Avivas records  show that it contacted the first hospital prior to Mr Ls arrival  there. Aviva was sent a 
medical report at 16:28 which it reviewed before  responding at 18:25 asking if the hospital  had an 
MRI scanner.  It requested  an MRI report before being able to confirm  cover for Mr Ls treatment or 
consider Mrs Ls request for him to be transferred by air ambulance to another hospital. It also took 
steps to confirm Mr Ls medical history. 
I appreciate this mustve  been  frustrating for Mrs L and the late Mr L, but its common practice for 
insurers to gather medical information before  being able to confirm if policy cover is applicable.  And I 
dont think it was unfair for Aviva to ask for these  details  prior to making its decision. I can also see 
that when Mrs L raised concerns about the conditions in the hospital it requested that she send  
photographs so that it could take this into consideration. So Im satisfied that it did acknowledge  her 
concerns and take steps to investigate the situation, even though it wasnt in a position to consider 
moving the late Mr L as quickly as Mrs L wouldve  liked.
In the meantime Mrs L and family members  arranged to pay for an air ambulance  transfer 
themselves. Aviva maintained that it would  need to see MRI results before being  able to confirm  any 
cover for treatment at the new hospital, which, as above, I think was reasonable  given the information 
it had at that stage. After  receiving further medical  information it confirmed cover  for treatment within  
30 minutes. It also subsequently agreed  to cover the costs of the air ambulance. And I think that was 
fair.
Avivas understanding of the situation and the late Mr Ls medical condition
I understand Mrs L feels that Aviva initially  failed  to recognise the severity of the late Mr Ls condition. 
But looking  at the medical information it was provided with during  the early  stages of this claim, I dont 
think it had any reason to suspect how serious  Mr Ls condition was from the outset of events. The 
medical assessments indicate that the first hospital didnt correctly diagnose Mr Ls condition.  They 
suggested he was suffering from mechanical  back pain and hadnt notified Aviva  of the seriousness of 
the situation. When Aviva  did receive  further information from the second hospital I can see it carried 
out a medical  review shortly afterwards and identified  how severe his condition was.
Mr L was transferred to a third hospital as it was felt he couldnt be adequately cared  for at the second 
facility when  this information  became apparent. I can see Aviva took steps to send a guarantee of 
payment to this hospital prior to Mr Ls arrival to avoid any delays in admission  and treatment. It 
appears this wasnt received initially which  was unfortunate. But its not clear that this was due to any 
mistake made by Aviva. And Im satisfied Aviva took steps to rectify this as quickly  as possible once it 
became apparent, and ensured the hospital had the necessary paperwork.
I do empathise with Mrs L and can understand why she feels so strongly  about the experience she 
and the late Mr L had here.  But for the reasons  Ive explained above I do feel that Avivas initial  
response to this claim was, overall, a reasonable one. 
prevarication and fair treatment 
However I do think Aviva could have taken steps to settle this claim  in a timelier manner, and should 
have provided better service  to Mrs L in this respect. And so as Ive said, I am upholding  this 
complaint in part.
Ref: DRN64497915I appreciate there  were  a lot of different  elements  to this claim and Aviva needed details  of a large 
number of costs before it was able to calculate quantum and make payments. But the evidence  
indicates to me that Aviva  was in a position to make payments on two large costs (the air ambulance 
and Mrs Ls flight home) by 17 August 2018 and suggested this money  would be forthcoming at this 
point. I can also see that it had a detailed  breakdown from 11 September 2018  of many  of the other 
claim costs  concerned. 
There do appear to have  been delays in Aviva asking Mrs L and her representative  (who  assisted her 
in her claim with Aviva)  for further  supporting  information to enable it to process payments. And it did 
not mention that it needed additional things like Mr Ls death certificate until 30 October 2018. It would 
have been much more  helpful if Aviva had informed  Mrs L it would need this at the outset.  I cant  see 
that any actual payments  were made to Mrs L until sometime between  the 16 and 27 November 2018. 
And when  they were  made, no breakdown of these  payments was provided and Mrs Ls 
representative had to request this so that they could  understand the current  position  of the claim.
Aviva has waived a £100 excess to apologise for not asking for all claim payment information when 
Mrs L and her representative first had contact with its claims department.  But I can see it had various  
cost breakdowns on its records at stages prior to mid November, which  indicates to me that it missed  
numerous opportunities to ask for information to facilitate  payments sooner. 
Given the large amounts of money  involved  here which had been paid up front by Mrs L and/ or family 
members on her behalf, the experience Mrs L had been through  and her own medical issues, I can 
understand why these  delays  would have caused Mrs L hardship as well as further distress. And I 
think it would have been reasonable for Aviva to have taken steps to make payments to her sooner. 
So in addition to the £100  excess waiver it has already agreed, I think it would be reasonable for 
Aviva to pay Mrs L £500 compensation in recognition of  the level of service she received  here and 
the delays in making payments.
Mrs L feels its unfair that Aviva didnt meet the cost of a business class flight  for Ms M, who 
accompanied her on her flight home to the UK following  the passing of the late Mr L. But I wont be 
asking Aviva to increase  the contribution its made towards these  costs.  I say this because  Im 
satisfied that these costs were not strictly covered  by its policy. 
The policy wording provides  that: 
Emergency medical and associated expenses
"If you are injured, fall ill, are quarantined  or die during  your trip, we will cover you up to the limits 
shown below, for:
[]
If our Medical Emergency  Assistance provider  and the treating doctor agree that it is necessary, 
we will also pay travel  and accommodation  costs  for one relative or friend  who has to stay with you or 
travel to be with you.
Mrs L wasnt ill herself so the policy doesnt explicitly cover Ms Ms flight in this situation. But, given 
the sad circumstances, I think it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay a contribution towards  Ms 
Ms flight to acknowledge that it wouldnt be reasonable  to expect Mrs L to fly home  alone. Im 
pleased to see Aviva  did this. However, as this isnt something  which I think  is covered  under  the 
policy, I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to increase  this contribution any further.   
Ref: DRN64497916Mrs L has asked for Aviva to cover the cost of treatment she has been receiving  for PTSD following 
these events.  But whilst  I do empathise with her situation I dont feel I can reasonably direct Aviva to 
do this. When considering what Aviva should  do to resolve this complaint. I can only look at the 
actions Aviva took (or ought to have taken), and consider whether these were reasonable  in the 
circumstances. I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for the medical emergency itself and the situation 
surrounding this. And whilst I understand Mrs L feels Aviva exacerbated the difficulties shes faced, I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest to me that she has required treatment solely due to the actions 
of Aviva. 
summary of my findings  
Overall Im satisfied Aviva  handled the claim while Mrs L and the late Mr L were  abroad in a fair and 
reasonable way. However as Ive set out, I intend to make  a compensation award here to reflect the 
level of service received by Mrs L after she returned home and the delays by Aviva in making claim 
payments to her. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that to reflect the delays and poor service  provided Aviva Insurance Limited 
should pay Mrs L and the estate of Mr L a further £500  compensation to resolve this complaint.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6449791