K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs Q complained because International Insurance  Company of Hannover SE 
(IICH) declined  their home insurance claim.
background
Mr M and Mrs Q made their claim after discovering  water damage and mould under their 
carpet. IICH declined the claim as it felt the damage  wasnt caused by one of the insured 
events listed in the policy. It also pointed out that damage caused gradually and damage 
caused by rot was specifically excluded from cover.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld. The relevant parts of that decision are outlined below.
As the damage  Mr M and Mrs Q claimed for was caused  by water, the only events 
covered by the policy that could have  caused  the damage were:
ostorm
oflood, or
owater  leaking/escaping from a water  or drainage installation, appliance or fish 
tank.
I hadnt seen anything which showed  the damage  was caused by storm. And no-one 
who inspected the damage found any evidence of a water leak. So the outcome of the 
complaint turned on whether it had been shown the damage was caused by flood.
Five experts inspected the damage  and provided  an opinion on the possible cause.  They 
commented:
ocause of damage is rot to the flooring
oheavy mould growth; no standing  water in the void underneath  the floor; believe 
theres been an ingress of water from outside as an air brick is level with the 
soakaway drain
ocause of rot appears to be a combination of insufficient ventilation,  evaporation in 
the void underneath the floor and water ingress  through the air vents; external 
ground level too high compared  to the air bricks which might result in water 
entering the void underneath the floor
omoisture ingress appears to be due to inadequate ventilation below the floor
othe ventilation  under the floor is restrictive  and ineffective; an air brick is low and 
might be allowing rain water to seep into the void underneath the floor.
I felt the experts  were broadly in agreement in that the flooring was damaged by rot due 
to water ingress into the void underneath the floor and poor ventilation  within  the void. 
The positioning of an air brick (or bricks) appeared to be a cause of the water ingress.
I thought it was fair to say that a flood was a build-up of water  that sits on top of the 
ground for a period  of time. I didnt think the cause of the flood  had to be a sudden and 
violent event; it could  be caused  slowly and steadily.
But whatever  the cause, there  needed  to be a build-up of water that sat on top of the 
ground for a period  of time. And I hadnt  seen  anything  in this case  which  showed  that 
Ref: DRN66197582had happened. Water  might have entered the void underneath the floor which  caused  
the void to be damp  which in turn caused  the rot/damage. But there was nothing to 
suggest the water built up and remained  there to the extent that the void flooded. There 
was also nothing to identify a specific flood  rather than just general  water ingress.
Overall, I didnt  think it had been shown that the damage was caused by flood (or by any 
other insured  event). So I thought IICH had treated Mr M and Mrs Q fairly when it 
declined their claim.
Reference had been  made to the policy excluding damage caused  gradually or by rot. 
That sort of damage was excluded,  but I didnt  think it was relevant to the outcome of this 
case because exclusions only applied once its shown that an insured event caused the 
damage. And I didnt think that had been  shown here.
responses my provisional decision
Mr M and Mrs Q didnt  accept my provisional decision. They said the policy  covered them for 
water ingress from outside  ie flood. They added that there appeared to be a consensus  that 
water ingress from outside  was the main cause of the soil under the floor being damp to the 
extent that it led to rot occurring. They said there  was no standing  water underneath the floor 
as the ground  was soil. The ingress  of water simply led to the soil remaining damp. 
Ultimately, Mr M and Mrs Q felt the expert opinions regarding the water ingress were 
sufficient to show that this met our definition of flood.
IICH agreed with my provisional  decision and said it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For any insurance claim, its a requirement  in the first instance  for the policyholder  to prove  
their claim by showing that theyve suffered a loss due to something  covered by their policy. 
For home insurance, that means the policyholder has to show that an insured event 
occurred and that it caused the loss. If the policyholder cant meet  this requirement the 
insurer doesnt have  to consider the claim.
The essence  of my provisional decision  was that Mr M and Mrs Q hadnt  shown  that flood 
caused the damage. Im satisfied that my conclusion was in line with the definition  of flood 
mentioned on our website. Mr M and Mrs Q said the definition makes no reference to there 
having to be a build-up of water that sits on top of the ground for a period of time. Its true 
that this isnt mentioned. But in my opinion  its common sense that theres only a flood if 
theres standing water  sitting on top of the ground. Its not a flood if water just soaks  into the 
ground without settling or building   its just wet ground.
Theres no dispute there was water  ingress  into the floor void. But that water ingress isnt in 
itself flood. Its possible the water entered the void and sat on top of the ground for a period  
of time  which would  be flood. But theres no evidence of that. Its also possible  the water  
entered the void and simply drained/soaked into the soil, leaving the soil damp.  I accept 
theres no evidence  thats what happened either.  But as Ive said above, its for Mr M and 
Mrs Q to show in the first instance  that their loss was caused  by flood. It isnt for IICH to 
show that it wasnt.
Ref: DRN66197583With that in mind, it remains my view that it hasnt been shown the damage  was caused by 
flood or by any other insured  event. So I conclude that IICH treated Mr M and Mrs Q fairly 
when it declined their claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2018.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6619758