K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 2003 in connection with a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs G complained  to this Service. Our adjudicator thought  the complaint should not 
be upheld because Mr and Mrs G were made aware the policies were optional  and because  
they had been given  enough clear information to make informed decisions. Mr and Mrs G 
disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again by an 
ombudsman.
The policy only covered  Mr G so I will mainly refer to him but I will sometimes  refer to Mr and 
Mrs G where appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint for the reasons  I have set out below. 
I looked first at whether Nationwide took steps  to show the policy was optional because  
Mr and Ms G specifically  complained they were not told it was an optional product.  Mr and 
Mrs G did not give us much detail about how the PPI was sold to them - but that is not 
surprising as the PPI was sold over 15 years ago. So I have been looking at the documents 
which were completed at around  the time of the sale to see what happened in 2003.  
Nationwide sent us Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application form. I can see it was completed 
by their intermediary broker at the time and that Mr and Mrs G expressed an interest in PPI 
by ticking a Yes box. The form says: If you have answered yes we will send you details 
of the policy  together with an application form.  So I think  Nationwide  sold the policy in 2003 
after Mr and Mrs G expressed an interest in their application. I also think Nationwide made it 
clear on the mortgage  application form and in the mortgage offer that PPI was optional and 
made it clear  to them that the PPI was free of charge for the first 12 months. I think  they had 
that additional time to think about whether they wanted to continue  the PPI once the free 
period had expired. 
Nationwide has said it believes the policy  was sold on a non-advised basis. Mr and Ms G 
says no-one gave them any information about the policy. I dont think  the policy was tailored 
for them, so I accept this was a non-advised sale. This means  Nationwide should have given 
Mr and Ms G enough clear information  for them to make their own informed decision about 
buying the policy. So, I looked  at their circumstances at the time of the sale to see if they 
might have needed the cover. We were  told the following:
Mr G was eligible for the policy
He wasnt affected by the things not covered by the policy (the exclusions)  
The policy seems  affordable at the time of the sale and
Mr G could get sick pay from his employer and they had some savings.
Ref: DRN64695032So I think Mr and Ms G were more likely to think the policy  gave them a valuable  benefit. 
The policy would help them make mortgage repayments for a successful claim for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. I also think the monthly premiums at the time of the sale were  
very affordable and offered  a good  level of benefit.  
I dont know how or if Nationwide explained  the things the policy  didnt cover but I dont think  
Mr G would have been affected by them. So I dont  think that any more detailed  information 
about the exclusions would have made them change  their decision to buy PPI. 
I think the cost and benefits  of PPI were made quite clearly in the mortgage offer to Mr and 
Mrs G. So having decided  the policy would have been of some use to Mr and Ms G, and that 
they were affordable and that they chose to have  it, I dont think  they would have been put 
off from buying the PPI if the cost and benefit information had been more  detailed at the time 
of the sale.
Taking everything into account,  I am not going to uphold  the PPI mis-sale complaint. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because:  
Nationwide  got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about  that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G has said - including what theyve said about not 
being given any information about the PPI, and being told to continue  the insurance.  But 
these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs G any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs G the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple interest  on each payment
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN64695033my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand Nationwide 
will be making this payment very soon. If Nationwide has already  made  this payment, I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.  
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6469503