K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about Evolution Insurance Solutions Ltd. He isnt happy  that its agent  
turned down a claim under his motor  breakdown policy.
background
Mr Cs car broke down just after he left the motorway and so he called Evolutions agent  for 
assistance. It turned down  the claim. It said Mr Cs car wasnt completely immobile,  and its 
policy didnt provide cover in these circumstances.
Mr C said it would be dangerous to start and move his car as it had lost coolant  and oil. The 
engine warning lights were on and he felt the engine would  seize  if he moved the car. So, he 
got a local garage  to move the car for him in order that it could be repaired.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and upheld it. He thought  Evolutions agent  
hadnt acted fairly in turning down  the claim. He asked it to refund the recovery charge Mr C 
had to pay. And to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Evolutions agent didnt agree. It didnt think the investigator had acted reasonably  by using  
his judgement to decide whether it was a fair and reasonable  outcome.  It simply  felt the 
contract excluded cover  in these  circumstances, as the car wasnt  completely immobile. So, 
the matter has been  passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
I know Evolutions agent strongly  believes  that only the contract  term can be considered 
when looking at this complaint and Mr Cs claim. But this service  has always  looked at 
complaints on an individual case by case basis and in a fair and reasonable way. If it is felt 
something isnt fair, then we will look to consider  the reasonableness  of the actions taken 
and decisions made.
In this instance Mr C called to say his car had broken down and wasnt  driveable. Ive 
listened to the call and it is possible the car was moveable, even if it wasnt driveable.  But I 
cant be sure from the call alone.  Evolutions  agent says the policy defines breakdown  as an 
electrical or mechanical  failure which immediately renders the vehicle immobile.
So while technically  using the most favourable interpretation for Evolution,  and one which  
clearly suited them, Mr Cs car may not have been  completely immobile.  But I dont think 
Evolution applied  the policy terms in a fair and reasonable way. I say this because while 
Mr Cs car may have been moveable,  I dont think  that means it was what most people  would 
describe as mobile. 
Ref: DRN64082082Plus, it clearly wasnt safe or sensible to drive the car and to do so would have caused 
further damage and potential  danger  to other road users   as oil and coolant  wouldve spilled 
on the road. And Mr Cs mechanic, the only professional breakdown person or mechanic to 
look at Mr Cs car at the time, formed the view that the car needed to be recovered to a 
garage. This was because it needed repair due to coolant loss, oil loss and to prevent further 
drive on damage.  So Im satisfied the car had clearly  suffered a mechanical failure and 
wasnt in a condition  to be driven.
Furthermore, Mr C isnt a mechanic and thats why he had the breakdown policy  in place. So 
I dont think it is fair to ask Mr C to interpret  whether his car was mobile or not. And the call 
taker simply ran the detail provided  through a computer database in deciding whether the 
car was mobile which isnt particularly persuasive.  In order to confirm whether the car was 
mobile Evolution would  have had to get the car inspected by a recovery  agent  as opposed to 
rely on a lay persons description. 
So, when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im satisfied  the 
car was what most people  would consider immobile when contacting a roadside assistance  
provider. The sort of problem Mr C experienced is exactly the sort of problem people  buy a 
roadside assistance policy to protect them against. And I find it very surprising indeed  that 
Evolution thinks its approach was reasonable. 
As such,  I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, is for Evolution  to pay Mr Cs recovery costs (plus 8% simple  interest  for the time hes 
been without the money). And £100  compensation for the clear  inconvenience caused. I say 
this as Mr C had the hassle and worry of making alternative arrangements,  when he thought 
hed be able to rely on the roadside  assistance  cover hed bought.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Evolution 
Insurance Solutions Ltd to pay Mr Cs recovery costs plus 8% simple interest from the time 
of claim until the date of settlement. And pay £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6408208