K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr K bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out some time between
1998 and 2000. Lloyds  cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the account  at 
the same  time as Mr K applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance   
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
 Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
 Ive taken this into account  in deciding  Mr Ks case.
 Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
 Mr K applied  for his card some  time between  1998 and 2000  and its possible that 
he bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt  know  for sure if this is the case.  
Ive not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its 
most likely Mr K bought the PPI at the same  time as applying  for his credit  card.
 I think its likely  that Lloyds made Mr K aware  the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it. Mr K says he didnt ask for the PPI and he thought it was something he had to 
have as part of the account. I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr K and 
Lloyds when the policy was sold, and Lloyds  has only been able to provide part of 
Mr Ks credit card application.
But from what we know  about Lloyds sales processes between 1998  and 2000,  Mr   
K wouldve had to actively select the PPI on the application form. And I think  its 
unlikely Lloyds wouldve added the PPI to Mr Ks account if he hadnt completed the 
form to show that he wanted the cover. 
 Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended the PPI to Mr K, but it doesnt  look as 
if it was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Even though Mr K says he would have received some employer benefits similar to 
the kind the PPI provided, the policy would  have paid out in addition to those, and 
would have been helpful if he couldnt work.
 Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr K would have  been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had 
a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him 
buying it.
Ref: DRN61056892But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr K, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6105689