K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
loan in 2001. Mr R says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr R says he didnt know that PPI had been added to his loan. Due to the time thats 
passed, HSBC  isnt able to provide Mr Rs paperwork from the sale  but this isnt surprising 
given how long ago it was, and businesses arent required  to keep records  indefinitely.  But I 
do think its likely HSBC made  it clear  that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this as it was so long ago.
I say this because  HSBC has shown that at the time it sold Mr R his loan and PPI policy, its 
sales process presented  the policy as an optional product,  and that a creditor/loan  
protection declaration wouldve been  completed. I think that Mr R wouldve completed 
similar paperwork when  he applied for his loan and PPI. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest 
that HSBC didnt follow its standard sales process with Mr K.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as I think its likely he chose  to take it out - it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been useful  for him if something went  wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account all of Mr Rs comments, but these  points  dont change  my conclusion, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN60318122my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6031812