K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling  of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva  includes their agents.
background
Mr D had a car insurance policy with Aviva which began in February 2017. His premium for 
the year was just over £200. In December  2017, Mr D was involved in two incidents. One 
resulted in the total loss of his car.
Mr D wanted to get another car so that his existing policy could  continue. As his 5 February 
2018 renewal  approached, Aviva automatically sent him a renewal invite  based on the 
details of his 2017 policy to insure  the car that had suffered the total loss. But the renewal 
premium quoted took into consideration that he now had two open claims (relating to the 
two incidents in December 2017) and that his no claims bonus  (NCB) years had reduced to 
zero as they werent  protected.  The renewal premium was £488.23.  But, as his original car 
was no longer in existence, and as he wasnt able to get a replacement  car before the 2017 
policy came  to an end, his policy lapsed (ended).
Mr D did then buy another car that was similar  to his previous one. He applied  online to buy 
a new Aviva policy to start on 10 February 2018.  But he didnt declare the two open  claims 
and he said that he had a years NCB. The online quote given to him for the new policy  was 
£518.84. Aviva realised that all the details Mr D had entered  werent correct,  so they 
contacted him. When Aviva corrected the details  to show that Mr D had two open claims and 
zero NCB, the premium for the new policy increased to £1,050.95. 
Mr D complained saying  the increase was unfair. But Aviva didnt uphold his complaint 
saying they had calculated his new premium  correctly.  But they offered to pay Mr D £50 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill because they were  unable to explain  to him why the 
increase was as much  as it was. Mr D didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to 
us. One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He felt that on the whole Aviva hadnt 
done anything  wrong, but it had caused   some confusion so he felt £50 compensation was 
adequate. As Mr D didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed  to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 July 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr D, but Im not intending to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why. 
In his complaint,  Mr D has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all 
those carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus  on what I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Aviva  have dealt with Mr D in a fair and reasonable 
way.
calculation of the premium for the new 2018  policy
Mr D believes  the increase to his premium when he applied for a new policy in
February 2018 was unfair. He was quoted just over £1,000. It might help if I explain 
that we're not the industry regulator.  That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how 
Ref: DRN63174762much they can charge  for their policies. And our service generally  takes  the view 
that, providing they treat people fairly  - that is they treat customers  with similar  
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they 
need to in order to cover a risk.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of 
risk rating factors. In other  words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder 
poses and the likelihood of them making  a claim in the future by looking at many  
different factors. It might  help if I give just a few examples  of the hundreds  of factors 
insurers consider: the type of car insured; where  the car is kept; the policyholders  
occupation; the policyholders age; the type of licence the policyholder has; the length 
of time the car has been owned; the number of years the policyholder  has been 
driving; and past driving incidents  the policyholder has been involved  in. But its not 
down to me to tell insurers  what factors  they should take into account when 
assessing risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Different insurers  will have
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a 
matter of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against the need  to compete with 
other policies on offer,  and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere 
with.
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the 
same risk is because insurers have different views on risk. So, different insurers give 
differing levels  of importance to different factors. For example, one insurer might 
consider the insured car to be a high risk car and therefore charge a higher premium 
to reflect  that risk. But another insurer might not consider that particular car to be 
high risk, so their premium might be lower. Insurers base their views on risks using 
statistics and other data.  In Mr Ds case,  the new policy  he applied for had a number 
of differences  when  compared to the old one. The car insured under the old policy  
was an automatic, whereas the new one was manual; the excess  on the old policy  
was £330, whereas it was £80 on the new one; the car under the old policy  was kept 
in a garage overnight, whereas under the new policy the car was to be kept on the 
drive; the car under the old policy was stated as having other security  meaning it 
had a non-manufacturer standard alarm/immobiliser, whereas the car under the new 
policy had manufacturers  standard alarm/immobiliser;  and under  the old policy  Mr D 
had said he owned  another  vehicle, whereas under the new policy  he said he didnt 
have access to any other vehicle. All these changes have an impact on the risk and 
the price of the premium. As insurance is essentially an assessment  of risk, I dont 
think theres anything  wrong  with insurers considering whether or not certain 
individuals fall into higher risk groupings  and so wish to charge a higher premium to 
cover that risk.
The reason  why the premium for the new policy almost doubled from just over £500 
to just over £1,000  was because when Mr D applied online, he declared he didnt 
have any claims and that he had a years  NCB.  But in fact he had two open  claims 
and his NCB was reduced to zero.
Aviva provided me with information  to show how Mr Ds premium  was calculated.  
That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr D. And that is 
also why Aviva didnt  share  it with him, which I know must  have  been  frustrating. But 
having looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Aviva treated  Mr D in the same way as 
they would  other policyholders in similar  circumstances. So I think  they calculated his 
premium reasonably. 
Ref: DRN63174763the difference between the 2017  renewal premium and the new 2018 premium
Mr D said that the renewal premium he was offered  for his old policy  took into 
account his two open claims and his NCB being zero and the price was just under 
£500. Yet the premium for the corrected  new 2018  policy was over £1,000  once his 
two claims and NCB status were included. But, as Ive explained above, the details of 
the two policies werent the same which would  have had an impact on the price.
But Aviva have also explained that the renewal premium they offered  Mr D included  
an existing customer discount, which didnt apply to the new policy.  They  also 
explained that the renewal quote  issued for the old policy and the quote for the new 
2018 policy were  done on different days with different rating models.  It might  help if I 
explain that of the hundreds of factors used to rate risk (as explained above), 
insurers continually review the risk level of each factor and change them regularly 
where they feel its appropriate to do so. This is something all insurers do. To give an 
example, the risk level of a certain  model  of car on 1 February  2018  may increase on 
3 February 2018.  That may be because on 2 February 2018 the insurers  updated 
statistics show the particular model to be a higher risk. Equally, risk ratings on factors 
may decrease. But Im satisfied that Aviva would have treated any other customer  
with similar  circumstances to Mr D in the same way had they also applied for cover
at the same  time. So I think  Aviva have treated Mr D fairly.
Even though  Aviva  said they hadnt done  anything wrong, they offered Mr D £50
compensation as a gesture of goodwill, because they werent able to explain how 
they calculated  his premiums. But, as Ive explained above, given the sensitive 
nature of the information, we dont  expect insurers to publish  that information  as it 
would give their competitors a commercial advantage. So I think  Avivas goodwill 
offer of compensation was reasonable.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Aviva accepted my provisional findings. 
But Mr D didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said of the two incidents that happened in 
December 2017,  one was wholly the other  drivers fault and no claim was made in relation to 
the other.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
In response to Mr Ds further  comments, while one of the incidents was the other drivers 
fault and no claim was made on his policy in relation to the other, when he was offered a 
new policy in February 2018 both incidents  were still open meaning they hadnt been 
resolved. In relation to the accident that led to the total loss of Mr Ds car, while  the matter 
later concluded  as the other drivers fault, at the time the new policy was offered the claim 
hadnt yet been decided  as non-fault. And in relation  to the other incident involving a 
pedestrian, while the pedestrian didnt make  a claim against Mr Ds policy, Aviva   like most 
insurers  kept that matter  open for several months  in case the pedestrian decided to make 
a claim later on, which is something that does happen often.  And I think that was reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN63174764It might help if I explain that its usual across  the insurance industry for insurers  to treat open  
claims as if theyre fault claims  until theyve  recovered their outlay or closed the claim without 
paying anything. And I don't find thats unreasonable. Thats because, if a claim later closes 
as non-fault its relatively simple for an insurer to recalculate a premium and pay any refund 
thats due. 
So having  open claims does often lead to an increase in premium which is usually corrected 
once the claims have been resolved.  But, in any event, as I've said above, the numerous 
differences to the car and its circumstances Mr D wanted on the new policy also made a 
difference to the price of the premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6317476