K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Mortgage Express sold his buy-to-let mortgages to another business 
without him being  consulted  or informed in advance.  He feels the new owner of the 
mortgages has been unjustly enriched at his expense. He wants matters  put right.
background
Mr H had a number of buy-to-let mortgages  with Mortgage Express. In 2018, he was told 
that the mortgages had been sold to another  business, along  with a considerable number of 
other mortgages held by other customers.  Mr H felt that he shouldve been  able to buy the 
mortgage for less than he was due to pay as he believed  that the new lender paid less for 
the mortgages than they were worth. He also felt that Mortgage  Express  failure to answer 
his questions meant that the mortgages were no longer valid.
Mr H complained to Mortgage Express.  It didnt answer his precise  questions, but had 
previously answered his freedom of information request setting out the background to the 
sale of the mortgages.
Mr H complained to us. The investigators view was that Mortgage Express  had answered 
the core of Mr Hs questions but was entitled to its view about  compliance with the freedom 
of information  request.  If Mr H disagreed with that view, it was a matter for the Information  
Commissioners Office.  The investigator  also said that Mortgage  Express  was able to sell the 
mortgages under the terms and conditions of the mortgages and didnt have  to consult Mr H 
in advance. The mortgages continued  to exist, despite later events. The investigator  pointed 
out that whether the mortgages were legally enforceable was a matter for the courts, not this 
service.
Mr H disagreed. He said that the mortgages were  no longer valid and this service made its 
decision without having any information before it. Mr H felt he was being bullied by Mortgage 
Express. Mortgage Express agreed  with the investigator and added that it was able to refuse  
to answer questions about  the sale as it was commercially sensitive information. It said that 
it had the right to sell the mortgages and the full debt remained due from Mr H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence available to me, and the law, I dont agree that this service 
has no information before  it or that the mortgages  are no longer valid. The legal points raised 
by Mr H are best determined by the courts, but in my view they are unlikely to succeed, 
though I cannot make  a binding decision on this point. 
The mortgages can be sold to another business  under their terms and conditions. And Mr H 
hasnt suffered any loss  he agreed to repay the mortgages on the basis  set out in the 
mortgage offer and remains so liable. Theres no requirement for Mortgage Express  to have 
given Mr H an opportunity  to repay his mortgages  for a lower sum. I also dont think that it 
would be fair or reasonable to place such a requirement on Mortgage Express, given the 
position in which it found itself during and after the financial crisis. It chose to sell a collection 
to mortgages  to another business  and I cant say thats unfair or unreasonable.
Ref: DRN69053462I also dont think that Mortgage Express failed to treat Mr H fairly in dealing  with his 
questions. It answered  the questions that it needed  to answer and is entitled  to refuse to 
disclose confidential  information.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 
1 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6905346