K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly  increased  his motor 
insurance premium.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr D has a motor policy  with UKI. At renewal the premium initially  increased by around 29%. 
UKI agreed  to reduce  that slightly but the increase was still over 20%. Mr D didn't think  that 
was fair.
Our adjudicator didn't think  UKI had done  anything wrong. Mr D didn't  agree so his 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr D didn't think the increase in his premium  was justified. He was concerned that a 
non-fault incident was affecting  his premium. And given its sharp  rise I can understand those 
concerns. But that doesn't mean UKI treated  him unfairly.
Were not the industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) is. And its not my 
role to say how much  an insurer should charge,  what factors  it should  assess,  or how much 
risk to attach to each  of those factors. Insurance is essentially  an assessment of risk. And 
we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  And each insurer  will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely  it is that their policyholders  will make  a claim and how 
much they might have  to pay out for those. And each  insurer  will go about  that in its own 
way. So, when deciding  if an insurer  has dealt  with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its 
treated them  the same  as it would other consumers with similar circumstances.
UKIs shown  us some of the information its used to calculate Mr Ds renewal premium.  
Those details are commercially  sensitive,  so I cant share them  with him. I can understand 
that Mr D might not think thats  fair. But insurers wont  usually set out how theyve worked 
out a premium to their customers, nor will they share  the statistics  on which theyve  based  
those calculations. Thats because  that information  could give a commercial edge  to their 
competitors. So we dont  expect insurers to make that information publicly available. 
Ive reviewed the premium calculation  information UKI has provided. Having done so I can 
see it hasn't  been  affected in any way by the non-fault incident. So I hope I can put Mr Ds 
mind at ease that that incident  hasn't influenced the amount UKI has charged him.
Im also aware that Mr D doesn't think its fair that UKI might  have used his age as a factor  
when calculating his premium. But the relevant equality law allows  insurers to use age as a 
Ref: DRN66159012factor when assessing risk. And all insurers that Im aware of will take age into account  when 
assessing risk for motor  insurance policyholders. But age is only one of many factors  UKI 
consider when assessing risk. And having looked  at UKIs premium calculations  Im satisfied 
its treated Mr D the same as it would its other customers in similar  circumstances. I think 
thats fair. So I havent seen anything that indicates that UKI calculated Mr Ds risk 
incorrectly or unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6615901