K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr O took out a mortgage and PPI in 2002.  The policy protected his mortgage  monthly  
repayments in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr O borrowed  some more money on his mortgage account in 2006 when PPI cover  was 
increased to provide protection for the extra amount Mr O borrowed.  
Our adjudicator assessed Mr Os complaint  on the basis  of all the information available but 
didnt find enough  evidence to uphold his complaint. Mr O disagrees  with our adjudicator. He 
mainly says that when  he was sold PPI he was told that taking it out would probably 
positively affect  the mortgage decision and it wasnt properly explained. Hes also concerned 
that his work circumstances impacted  on how the policy applied to him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
what happened in 2002
HSBC discussed  PPI with Mr O over the phone while he was arranging his mortgage.  
Theres no call recording available  now and I havent seen any sales  script. So I dont know 
how HSBC presented PPI to Mr O or explained it to him. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Mr O to remember  exactly what he was told when he took out PPI as the sale 
happened so long ago. So I cant just rely on what Mr O says. I have to look at everything 
and decide what  I think is most likely.
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that HSBC  didnt  make  it 
clear that it was open to Mr O not to choose PPI if he didnt want  to have it, just based on 
what he says now. The mortgage  was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long 
period of time. His home  wouldve been  at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why Mr O mightve felt PPI was useful to have. 
I can completely understand why Mr O mightve  forgotten  this now. But, on balance, I think  
its more likely that Mr O was persuaded of the need  to protect his home by taking out the 
PPI offered  and he decided to buy the policy when he took out his mortgage in 2002.  
HSBC says it didnt  advise Mr O to take out the PPI. Mr O says it was recommended. But 
I dont need to make a decision about  this because it doesnt  look like PPI was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN63583822Mr O was eligible for the policy. And it couldve paid out a monthly benefit that covered his 
mortgage monthly repayments for up to 12 months  each time he was unable  to work as a 
result of accident, sickness or unemployment.  Repeat claims were possible giving Mr O long 
term protection for his mortgage  while he was paying for his home.  It doesnt look like Mr O 
had any other means to rely on to cover his mortgage monthly repayments for very long if he 
wasnt able to work.   
Ive taken into account the information Mr O has told us about his work circumstances. But 
I dont find that it wouldve  been  any harder for him to make a claim than it wouldve been for 
someone who was employed  long term. And it doesnt look as if Mr O was affected by any of 
the other main conditions  that mightve  limited the policys benefits  to him. So, even  if not 
everything was mentioned, I dont think that knowing more  about things the policy  didnt 
cover wouldve made  any difference to Mr Os decision to take out the policy.  
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr O when he bought  the policy. But, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that he couldnt  afford the monthly premiums. Given  that Mr O was 
solely responsible  for paying his mortgage, and the serious consequences of defaulting on a 
debt secured on his home, I think hed have appreciated the peace of mind  the cover  gave  
him (even if hes forgotten  now).  
So whilst its possible that HSBC mightnt  have given Mr O clear information  about all 
aspects of the PPI, I think Mr O chose to take out the insurance and I can see why he 
mightve thought  it would be useful in his particular circumstances.  I think it unlikely hed 
have made  a different decision in 2002  if better  information had been provided.
what happened in 2006
When Mr O took out some additional  borrowing  he also increased the amount of PPI to 
cover the extra  amount  added to his mortgage.
I think he wouldve been aware at the time that it was up to him to say if he wanted to take 
out this policy.  The mortgage paperwork Ive seen says that he wasnt  required to take out 
any insurance through HSBC. And the amount of PPI cover hed taken and the monthly  cost 
of having it is shown listed in a box headed: Optional Insurance. Mr O signed his mortgage 
offer confirming that he agreed these terms. 
I think its likely that Mr O agreed the extra cost as he wanted the PPI benefits to cover his 
extra borrowing. And I can understand why. As far as I can see his circumstances were 
broadly the same. The new policy gave Mr O the same  benefits and it provided him with the 
long term protection  he already had for his original mortgage.  Mr O continued to be able to 
take advantage of all the benefits under the policy.  
Taking all his circumstances into account, even if there  were  failings in the way HSBC  sold 
him this policy, I dont think that better  information wouldve put Mr O off having it. 
The PPI cost was mentioned in the mortgage  offer so I think  Mr O wouldve had an idea 
about the monthly cost when he bought the policy. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that he 
couldnt afford the extra monthly premiums. 
Taking all his circumstances into account, even if there  were  failings in the way HSBC  sold 
him the policy, I dont  think that better  information  wouldve put Mr O off having  it. 
Ref: DRN63583823This means  HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because: 
HSBC UK Bank Plc got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because  
HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  tell Mr O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC UK Bank Plc has paid back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr O any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6358382