K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N bring  a complaint on behalf of their company (M) about the price Allianz 
Insurance Plc charged  for its commercial property insurance policy.  
background
M arranged its property insurance  through a broker L. In 2010, L placed Ms cover with 
Allianz at a premium  of £1,356.79. The policy renewed with Allianz until 2016 when it invited 
renewal at a premium in excess of £2,000.  Mr and Mrs N thought this was expensive  and 
sought cover  elsewhere, eventually arranging it with a different insurer  for a premium of 
£264.60. 
Mr and Mrs N complained  to Allianz. They said that if theyd been able to get cover for a 
fraction of what Allianz was offering then it must  have been overcharging them  for years. 
Allianz looked into their complaint but didnt think itd done  anything wrong. It said the annual 
renewals itd offered  M had been  non-obligational and that it had the right to take its 
business elsewhere at any point if it had wanted.  Allianz noted that at no point since  2010  
had Mr and Mrs N contacted it to question the price theyd been  offered. Allianz  said it priced 
the policy fairly based on its assessment  of the risk presented and that it didnt have to base  
its premiums on what another insurer would  offer.  It said that every insurer  had different 
criteria it took into account and each would charge what it thought necessary to cover the 
risk presented. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to Allianz, Mr and Mrs N brought  Ms complaint 
to this service. Our adjudicator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. He said L had given no advice (on behalf  of Allianz)  as to whether the policy  met Ms 
needs. He said it also asked Mr and Mrs N at each renewal to call to find out about the cover 
and discuss any other  available products. So he thought Mr and Mrs N had enough 
information to be able to make  an informed decision about whether  to accept the policy at 
the price offered. Our adjudicator noted that the price had gone up each year but didnt  think 
there was anything that Allianz had done wrong when calculating it. 
Mr N responded on behalf  of M to say he was disappointed and didnt understand how 
insurers could get away with charging  such high prices for basic  cover without providing their 
customers with comparative alternatives. He said he felt misled  and that his trust in L and 
Allianz had been breached. He said hed trusted both to deliver value for money. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs N, I dont think Ms complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
Its important to understand that this service  doesnt normally  assess pricing methodology 
generally, such as considering whether  products represent good value for money. So we 
generally accept  that insurers  can charge what they feel they need  to for covering the risk of 
providing insurance so long as they act fairly.  In simple terms that means that they should 
Ref: DRN61108342apply their chosen pricing model consistently between  their customers  whilst  ensuring that 
the customer has the information they need to make an informed decision about taking the 
policy at the price offered. And that they have the flexibility  to shop around and change 
insurer if they wish.  Im satisfied thats the case here. Mr N might think that Allianz has 
overcharged M for its commercial property insurance, but its for Allianz to decide  on its 
appetite for the risk presented and adjust  its premiums accordingly. M had the option to shop 
around for alternative  cover if it wished.
Renewing a property  insurance policy will involve a bit of time and effort to get the best 
terms. People who take the time to shop around often end up paying less. I dont think 
Allianz should have to compensate M for this. Its something many  customers  might  have  
done anyway.  And I can see that in 2016 this is what Mr and Mrs N did on Ms behalf. 
The fact that the premium  Mr and Mrs N were  able to obtain  in 2016 was so much lower  that 
offered by Allianz  at renewal doesnt  mean  that Allianz mustve been overcharging M. 
Insurers all assess  risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be to another. Insurers 
will also use different data when  assessing the risk posed. But thats not unfair.  We wouldnt  
generally tell Allianz (or any insurer)  that it should use, or discount, specific data. The risk is 
Allianzs to take on so it will decide how to assess it and will charge a price  accordingly. 
Each year, Allianz is entitled to reassess  its risk factors  when setting  the price  of its policies. 
So prices  can go up or down, depending on what it thinks  the risks are that year for all of its 
customers. 
And whilst I cant  consider the actions of L within the confines of this complaint against 
Allianz, it is worth nothing that it did state  in the renewal pack each year that it offered other 
products (and I can see that Allianz was the sole provider of Ls commercial insurance 
during the period it insured M). It invited Mr and Mrs N to call to discuss these  and their 
cover needs  more generally  if they wanted.  So I think Allianz  did enough (through L) to 
enable Mr and Mrs N to make  an informed  decision about whether to renew at the price  
offered. There were no misleading  statements in the renewal pack  about the policy being 
good value or competitively priced. I appreciate that Mr N has said that he thinks  L and 
Allianz breached  the trust he placed in them but I cant agree that theres been any breach  of 
the regulatory requirements. 
I can see that the price  increased each year. The sum insured for the buildings  was indexed 
linked so this can partly explain why the price went up. But other  risk ratings and commercial 
factors would likely  have affected  the price too but that would have been the same for all 
Allianzs customers with similar circumstances. 
So Im satisfied that Allianz  has treated  M fairly  and in line with the way that it treated all its 
other customers with similar risk profiles. I dont think that M has been  singled out in any 
way. Different insurers have different business models, differing levels  of cover  and differing 
levels of customer service.  These  factors all affect the price a customer  will pay. And when 
you get a policy from a different insurer it may well contain a new customer  discount. That 
may well provide some explanation about how Ms policy from the alternative insurer was so 
much cheaper. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN61108343Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N, on 
behalf of M, to accept  or reject my decision before 17 July 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6110834