K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time - so it accepted responsibility for the sale.  Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B bought the policy in a shop at the same time as taking a hire-purchase  agreement  in 
2001. She was employed at the time as a legal assistant and had been there nine years. 
Shes told us she was entitled  to comprehensive sick pay and would also have qualified for 
redundancy entitlement. The questionnaire sent to us for Mrs B said she was entitled to full 
sick pay and was ticked to say she wouldve received this pay for less than three months.  It 
also told us Mrs B had death  in service benefit  as well as other life cover.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  the monthly repayment of Mrs Bs agreement in 
the event of Mrs B being unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The life 
cover would, subject to its terms, clear the balance on death.  The policy cost £5.54 a month  
and the premium would continue  to have to be paid in the event of a successful claim. 
Mrs B has told us of an operation she had around  20 years before the sale and a separate  
condition she had treated with an operation the year before  the sale with which she missed  
up to ten days  of work. She hasnt told us the condition continued to be an issue  after that. 
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Bs representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs B wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Bs representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs B about the 
poor value; 
Ref: DRN64617092The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs B and the impact they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN64617093The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the Code said As a condition of membership of the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
AXA was a member  of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, AXA was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not AXA  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume the seller (as a member 
of the FLA) should have complied with its code when selling PPI, and this extends to when  it 
was acting as an agent of AXA. 
So I am satisfied it is right I should take these codes  into account when deciding  what  is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  I am also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note under the 
Insurance Ombudsmans terms  of reference  the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance  
when considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ref: DRN64617094key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs B sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. On her questionnaire, Mrs B told us she had 
no interest in PPI and said it was just included as part of the package.  Ive considered  this 
and the evidence relating  to it carefully. 
The credit agreement Mrs B signed  to take the credit  had a PPI section (entitled Payment 
Protection Insurance Application) with a space for her to sign if she wanted  the PPI. Mrs B 
signed this space, separately from signing  for the credit, and nothing  above the space  or 
elsewhere on the form said she had to take the PPI or had to sign the space for it if she 
didnt want it. So the evidence from the time seems to indicate the PPI was presented as a 
separate insurance  with a separate  cost  about which Mrs B had a decision to make  
separate from her decision to take the credit itself. Ive seen nothing from the time to make  
me think Mrs B was pressured into signing for the cover either.
Mrs B has said that, due to pressures  of time, she was asked to sign the form (and did so) 
on the basis that the cashier would complete all the other relevant details.  Mrs B hasnt 
specifically mentioned signing the form more  than once, including  a separate signature for 
the insurance. Having  looked at the form, the details, apart from the signatures,  are printed 
on it. So the form Mrs B signed doesnt appear  to have  been a blank one with details still to 
be written in, but a form with the details (such  as the goods being bought, the costs of the 
goods and Mrs Bs bank  payment details)  already printed on it.
Id add that the printed  details included the separate cost of the PPI. This, and how it would 
affect the cost overall, were printed directly above  where Mrs B signed for the PPI  it also 
said there: Only sign if you want cover  so the form indicated the PPI was something to 
sign for only if the cover was wanted.
Mrs B has also said that, from what she recalls, the form was pre-printed, torn from a pad of 
forms and her details inserted by the sales assistant  who asked her to sign the form. I see 
Ref: DRN64617095the details on the form specific  to Mrs B, such as the specifics  of what  she was buying  and 
her direct debit details, were pre-printed in the sense that they were  printed on the form 
before Mrs B signed  it. But they werent pre-printed  in the sense of being generic details 
already printed on a standard form that didnt somehow reflect the purchases  Mrs B had 
chosen to make. Likewise the bank  payment  details  were specific  to Mrs B and, presumably, 
provided by her during the sale, or in any case before the form was printed for her to sign.
In any case, and how ever one might describe the process of Mrs Bs details being collected  
from her then printed  as part to the form for her to sign,  the PPI details were on the form for 
her to see when she signed it, and she signed  specifically for the PPI insurance, and I think  it 
likely she wouldve known, in light of all Ive said above about how the form was set out, that 
if she didnt want the PPI she shouldnt sign the box to say she wanted it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs B knew the PPI was optional and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
In reaching this view I bear in mind also that, while Ive given her recollections some weight, 
it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs B didnt  recall all the details of how the sale was made,  given 
that it took place  almost  20 years before she set out her complaint about it - and given  also 
that the sale was, according to Mrs Bs recollection, a hurried interaction at the time.
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Taking  into account also what  Mrs B has 
said, Im persuaded  AXA didnt provide  advice.  This means AXA didnt have to check if the 
PPI was suitable for Mrs B. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Mrs B recalls  taking the agreement for an additional  discount and recalls there not having 
been enough time for the cashier to explain  the terms and conditions of the insurance  or 
what it covered or excluded. Ive considered this carefully. 
On balance, Im satisfied its likely Mrs B was given  a broad description of what the PPI was 
intended to cover (that is, it would protect  her payments if she were  unable to work through 
accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the costs. Ive reached  this conclusion because  
- bearing in mind what Ive said above  about  the policy being presented as optional  - I think  it 
unlikely Mrs B wouldve  taken the policy without any sense of what it was for or of how much 
it might  cost.  Also, Mrs Bs credit agreement called  the PPI Payment Protection Insurance,  
said it would  cost 16% of the monthly  loan repayment and set out separately  the monthly 
PPI premium amount,  the monthly loan repayment  without PPI and the monthly repayment 
with PPI. Mrs B signed for the cover directly below these last two figures.
That said,  the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt  tell us whether AXA gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations,  before 
Mrs B agreed to the policy. So I dont think AXA gave Mrs B sufficient, appropriate  and 
timely information to enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take the 
policy, including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN64617096I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think it is unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs B has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs B? To what extent did she suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found AXA did not do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mrs B. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would have still 
taken the policy,  had AXA done things  properly. Mrs B says she wouldnt have taken it and 
believes I should presume  this to be the case given the significant  failings identified  above. 
Ive considered the representations of both sides and the evidence  relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs B had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. As Ive found above,  she chose to take the PPI, so I consider it 
reasonable to conclude  she had some interest in the benefits  this type of insurance offered. 
But she made this decision based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs B thought she 
was getting is not exactly  what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs B has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Mrs B was given clear information  about the cost, as described  above. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and exclusions, wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But although  Im not persuaded AXA made  clear  exactly what  
Mrs B would get if she made a successful claim, I think its unlikely her expectations about 
what the policy would pay (an amount sufficient to meet  her hire-purchase agreement  
repayments) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Ref: DRN64617097Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought, were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  Mrs B knew  or shouldve  known 
about or had been advised or treated for by a doctor in the 12 months before the policy  
start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs B wasnt  
a permanent employee; 
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs B be stopped from doing 
her own or any similar job, and also be stopped from doing  any paid work her 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining loan term.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking  the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality.
Mrs B couldnt have claimed  for work absences related to the health conditions shed had. 
But she hasnt told us the more recent issue, a year before the sale,  with which  she missed 
up to ten days  of work, continued to be an issue after that. And what  shes told us about her 
other issue, including that it was around 20 years before the sale, makes me think  it unlikely 
she wouldve thought  herself at much  risk of missing  work in future  due to that past issue.  
So what  I have doesnt make me think Mrs B wouldve thought work absences from her past 
issues were so likely in future that the policy wouldnt be worth taking if it didnt cover these. 
So, I dont think her decision  to take the PPI wouldve been changed had she been told more 
about the policy exclusions for existing health issues.  Also Mrs B wasnt  caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions  she was in permanent employment, for example.  So, with all 
this in mind,  I think Mrs B still had some  good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs B might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs B 
from taking the policy,  Mrs B, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
AXA may not have  told Mrs B any claim she made  would be limited to 12 months. This may 
have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months was longer  
than she wouldve received full sick pay, from what shes told us. Also,  although her length of 
service makes me think it unlikely  her redundancy entitlement was as much as 12 months 
income, the policy benefit wouldve been  paid in any case  on top of any redundancy pay she 
received. Taking  everything into account, I consider it likely Mrs B wouldve still thought  PPI 
Ref: DRN64617098that paid the loan payments for up to 12 months  would be of benefit  if she couldnt work  in 
the circumstances the policy covered.
If Mrs B had known she could only claim for disability  if she were not only unable to do her 
own or any similar job, but also unable  to do any paid work  her education, experience  or 
training might reasonably qualify her to do, it might  have  played into her thinking about what 
to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  although, given Mrs Bs 
circumstances, on balance I think she would  still have  been interested  in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs B wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely she thought  
she was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help her manage  the consequences  were 
she made redundant or unable  to work  through accident or sickness.  In the circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not Mrs B wouldve taken the policy  in any event, notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she wouldve been  in if she had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN64617099Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mrs B would not have taken it, Im satisfied, of 
the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken the policy had she 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  she was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude AXA 
should pay Mrs B compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware Mrs B thinks  AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs B and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Im grateful  to Mrs B for her courteous and prompt responses, and for all the further points  
she has provided.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6461709