K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Miss R are unhappy that Advantage Insurance Company Limited will not pay a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. 
 
background
Miss R was a named  driver on Mr Ws policy. When she was driving the car she noticed 
smoke, a loss of power,  a smell  of burning  and a warning light on the dash board. She 
stopped and the fire brigade  was called to deal with a fire. 
Advantage says it appointed an independent  engineer who found excess  engine oil in the 
engine bay and that the engine was devoid  of oil. There was also excessive movement in 
the turbine shaft. The engineer says the turbo had failed resulting in extensive damage to 
the engine. As a result the car was deemed  a write off. 
Advantage has declined to deal with the claim. It says the policy  terms and conditions when 
referring to damage  or loss caused by fire say failures, breakdowns  or breakage of 
mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer equipment  are not covered by the policy.  And 
as the damage  is a result of a mechanical failure,  it isnt able to offer indemnity.
Miss R and Mr W are unhappy about  this. They say the engineer isnt independent and they 
should be able to claim under the terms of the policy for the damage  caused by the fire and 
for other parts except  for the turbo.  They think the scrap value paid is lower than a previously 
quoted figure.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
It seems  that the fire was caused  by excessive movement in the turbo and excess  oil 
in the engine bay. Mechanical faults arent  covered by the policy and as a result  
Advantage isnt liable for this claim.
Advantage isnt required  to separate the cost for the engine  or turbo repairs as these 
parts are the cause of the mechanical damage. The repair  costs  for both these items 
led to the car being a total loss as they exceed the cars  value.
Theres no evidence Advantage initially said £1,250 was a scrap value for the 
damaged car. The scrap  value  paid of £900 seems  fair as it was the market value of 
the car with a damaged  engine and turbo  and before the fire damage. 
But Advantages representative  provided  poor service  when  handling the claim and 
its payment of £100 for this is fair.
Miss R remains  unhappy  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67727322The terms and conditions  of the policy say that when a fire claim is made cover isnt 
provided when  there  are failures, breakdowns or breakage of mechanical, electrical, 
electronic or computer  equipment.
Here the independent  engineers report commissioned by Advantage concludes  that the seat 
of the fire was in the engine bay where  there was excessive oil. The engineer says that in his 
opinion the turbo failed  and this resulted in the engine  running on its own oil. This lead to 
engine and turbo damage which  the engineer estimated would cost at least  £12,679 to repair 
which was more than the cars estimated value of £5,000. As a result the car was deemed a 
total loss. 
Miss R has said she still thinks the costs of the repairs  should be set out differently.  Although  
she accepts that under  the policy Advantage isnt responsible  for mechanical repairs she 
doesnt think all the damage to the car was mechanical. Some  was due to the fire and 
should be covered  by the policy. She says this hasnt been differentiated or set out properly. 
And the cost of repairing  the turbo wouldve been only about  £100 plus labour. Advantage 
shouldnt be responsible for that but they have still lost over £3,000.  The non faulty  parts 
need replacing as a result of the fire and they should be reimbursed for them. But Im afraid I 
dont agree. 
I think Advantage was entitled to rely on the independent engineers  conclusions  in particular 
that the failure of the engine and turbo  were  mechanical failures. And the simple fact is that 
the estimated  costs  of rectifying these mechanical  issues on their own were  more than the 
cars value.  The mechanical failures  directly and on their own led to the car being deemed to 
be a total loss. 
Miss R accepts the scrap value was paid by a third party not Advantage so I cant comment  
on its fairness or otherwise here. But Ive seen nothing to show Advantage or its 
representative miscommunicated the scrap  offer to Miss R and Mr W.
I recognise Miss Rs strength of feeling  and frustration.  Even so I dont  see any compelling  
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case. 
Overall I think  Advantage has acted  fairly  and in line with the policy terms and conditions by 
declining the claim as the car was written  off as a result  of damage caused by the 
mechanical issues which arent covered by the policy.  And I dont think  I can fairly or 
reasonably require Advantage to pay anything to Mr W and Miss R as theyd like
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6772732