K820x#14complaint
Ms A says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL was the underwriter  for the PPI policy, rather than the lender. But FICL has agreed  to 
take responsibility for dealing with Ms As complaint. So Ive referred to FICL throughout the 
complaint.
background
Ms A bought  the policy in 1997  in connection  with a store card.  FICL  has told us Ms A 
bought the policy over the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms As complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Ms A says she was put under pressure to take the policy, and that FICL didnt give 
her a proper choice. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed  
between Ms A and FICL when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events 
took place many  years  ago, and that exact  recollections of what  happened can fade 
over time. Without anything else to support what Ms A has told me, I dont think  it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to say that FICL didnt make her aware that 
buying the policy was optional.
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms A so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about  any other means that Ms A had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if FICL had recommended the policy to Ms A, it doesnt look as though  it 
was unsuitable  for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Ms 
A says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt  work because 
of sickness or accident, and that she had some  savings.  Shes  also told me that her 
husband couldve covered her repayments.  
But the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to Ms As employer benefits, and 
wouldve meant she couldve  used  her sick pay and savings to cover  other  
expenses. And having the policy in place wouldve meant Ms A didnt have to rely on 
her husband. So I still think the policy wouldve been useful to her.
Ref: DRN61663732 Its possible  the information FICL  gave Ms A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Ms A would have  been affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit.  So I 
dont think better  information  wouldve stopped her buying it.
Ms A has mentioned commission paid in connection  with the policy.  The adjudicator  
explained that in some circumstances lenders have to pay back some  of the commission  to 
consumers. But as Ive said above, FICL wasnt the lender  in this case so its not responsible  
for any commission refund. If Ms A wants  to pursue this point  she may want  to consider 
contacting the lender directly.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6166373