K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  about the actions  of HSBC UK Bank Plc when  she sent money  from her 
bank to an HSBC  UK Bank Plc account.
background
In June and July 2018, Mrs L sent money to an HSBC account  as a result  of a scam,  and 
she has been unable  to recover this money.   
Mrs L complained to HSBC, and remaining  unhappy, referred the matter  to our service. One 
of our investigators didnt  think  we could consider the complaint.  Mrs L disagreed with this 
and the matter was passed to me for a jurisdiction decision. 
On 11 December 2019, I sent Mrs L and HSBC my decision on jurisdiction, explaining the 
parts of Mrs Ls complaint we could and could not consider. I explained in my decision why I 
was satisfied that the HSBC account  Mrs L sent funds to was a third partys  account and not 
Mrs Ls (despite Mrs L legitimately believing that the HSBC account was in her name). And I 
went on to explain my decision  that Mrs L was not an eligible complainant  here for the 
complaint points she had raised, beyond those that related to HSBCs obligations  under  
regulation 90(3)  of the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
It therefore now falls to me to address Mrs Ls complaint that HSBC didnt comply  with its 
obligations under  regulation 90(3) of the Payment Services  Regulations  2017.  I have  
previously written to Mrs L and HSBC to explain the decision I was intending to make about 
this. Both parties have  had the chance  to comment in response.  And Im now ready to 
explain my findings  and final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L made the following payments to the HSBC account:
date amount (Euros)
28/06/2018 5,000
04/07/2018 10,000
06/07/2018 2,500
Regulation 90(3) of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 states:
The payees payment  service provider must co-operate  with the payers  payment service  
provider in its efforts to recover  the funds, in particular  by providing to the payers payment 
service provider all relevant information for the collection of funds.
This means  I would expect HSBC, as the payees  payment  service  provider, to have 
co-operated with Mrs Ls banks efforts to recover the funds sent to HSBC.  If I found HSBC 
didnt co-operate and that this would  have made  a difference  to the amount of money Mrs L 
could otherwise have recovered, then that could be reason to uphold the complaint about 
HSBC and direct that it pays Mrs L compensation for its failings.
Ref: DRN60793652Here, however, I am not persuaded  I can say that HSBC failed in its obligations  under 
regulation 90(3)  of the Payment Services Regulations 2017  or that it is responsible  for Mrs L 
not having been able to recover her money.
I have seen the HSBC account statements that show  the money Mrs L paid into the account 
was withdrawn promptly. The account  was in credit  before Mrs L made  the first payment to 
the account but by 9 July 2018 the account was 66,352 Euros  overdrawn. I also have not 
seen any evidence that Mrs Ls bank contacted HSBC in time for HSBC  to have prevented  
the fraudster withdrawing Mrs Ls funds.
I am aware  that Mrs L wrote to HSBC  on both 19 July 2018 and 26 July 2018, and I have 
reviewed the copies of these letters  we have on file. But regulation 90(3) of the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 refers to HSBCs obligations to co-operate with Mrs Ls bank to 
recover her funds. And I can see that on 27 July 2018 HSBC took action to inhibit the 
fraudsters account  and to investigate. Even if I thought HSBC  should have done something 
sooner than this (and I am not saying that I do), as I have already said,  Mrs Ls funds had 
already been withdrawn. So I am satisfied that this wouldnt have made a difference   Mrs L 
still wouldnt  have been able to recover her money. 
Whilst I therefore entirely sympathise with Mrs L and Im really very sorry she has lost this 
money as a result of a scam, I cant say that HSBC  should have done things differently and 
that this would have changed  things.
I therefore do not uphold this complaint, nor do I direct  HSBC to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6079365