K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Provident Personal  Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says she took a 
large number of loans  from Provident but she couldnt afford  to make the repayments. She 
says she was unemployed and on benefits when she took the loans and so Provident 
shouldnt have lent to her.  
background
This complaint is about two home credit loans Provident provided to Mrs B. 
Loan 1 was started on 6 October  2001.  Mrs B borrowed  £700.  She was due to repay £21 a 
week for 54 weeks. 
Mrs B couldnt repay this lending and Provident  agreed to freeze the interest.  And it also 
agreed to lower the repayments by lengthening  the term. And this formed  the basis  of loan 2. 
Loan 2 was started on 17 November 2010. Mrs B borrowed  £559. Mrs B was due to repay 
£4.99 a week  for 112 weeks.  
I understand Mrs B also had problems making these  repayments and loan 2 was sold to a 
third party. 
Mrs B made her complaint to Provident  and it didnt initially uphold it. But after the complaint 
was referred to this Service  it decided  to pay compensation  to Mrs B. It agreed to refund the 
interest she repaid  on these two loans, plus interest at 8% simple (and buy loan 2 back from 
the third party). It would  also remove any adverse information from her credit report  about  
this lending. 
Our adjudicator thought that this was a reasonable way to resolve the complaint.  Mrs B 
didnt agree with the complaint outcome. She said that she had taken  more  than 20 loans 
with Provident  and these should  be included in the compensation
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Provident has already  agreed to refund the interest and charges Mrs B paid on the two loans 
Ive outlined above. I think this is a reasonable way to resolve Mrs Bs complaint about these 
loans. And whilst this complaint is not resolved, Mrs B hasnt disagreed  with this 
compensation for loans 1 and 2. So I wont comment further on the compensation offered 
about these two loans. I have included  it in my putting things right section below. 
Mrs B doesnt agree  this is a reasonable way to resolve her complaint as she says she has 
taken a significant number of other loans from Provident. But Provident doesnt  have any 
information about any other loans. And Mrs B has provided some photographs  from a paying 
in book but these dont  show  enough detail to say she had other loans. And she says she 
doesnt have any further information.  So without anything  else to show that these loans  
existed Im unable to make a decision about  any other lending than the loans above.  
Ref: DRN62080172putting things right  what Provident  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 and 2 from Mrs Bs credit  file;
If Mrs B still owes Provident any of the principal balance she borrowed, instead  of the above 
compensation, Provident should remove all the interest and charges  applied to the 
outstanding balance. Provident should then re-work the account as if all payments  made  by 
Mrs B went  to towards the principal. But importantly, Provident  needs to make  sure that Mrs 
B doesnt repay more than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mrs B hasnt repaid the principal she borrowed Provident can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mrs B has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
And if Provident no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mrs B.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mrs Bs complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited  should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6208017