K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that hes been unfairly  treated  by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Finance. He says they refused to refund part of his 
deposit when  his car was stolen and written  off.
 
background
Mr R took receipt of a new car in October  2016. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
agreement with VWFS but unfortunately only seven  months later the car was stolen and 
eventually written off.
Mr R felt that he lost out financially by choosing  to pay 12 monthly  rentals upfront when he 
initiated the lease. He was unhappy  because VWFS  would not offer a gesture of goodwill 
initially but later decided to reduce the settlement  amount  and therefore do so. He was 
disappointed because  he feels he was wrongly  informed and the goodwill offer benefits  the 
insurance company  rather than him. He wanted  VWFS to refund a portion of his initial  rental.
But VWFS refused. They explained that the settlement amount of £27,619.86,  was 
calculated by adding  the early settlement figure to the CAP clean  valuation.  In this case  they 
explained that the settlement figure £1,577.99 less than the pay out the insurers  were 
making. They explained that they had therefore  made a goodwill gesture to reduce the 
settlement figure to £26,461.86,  and that as a result Mr Rs liability was only £419.99. They 
didnt think this was unreasonable  and they explained it meant they would  not profit from the 
agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt  think VWFS had been unreasonable either.  He noted that if Mr R had 
chosen to pay only six instead of 12 advance  payments he would have paid less towards the 
agreement at the point the car was stolen. But he thought VWFSs actions had saved Mr R 
more than that. He noted theyd valued the car at less than the insurers valuation and this 
under valuation, of £1,541.86 had been deducted from the early termination fee that would 
have been due. He also noted that VWFS  had provided a preferential  settlement figure  
which reduced the original  settlement by a further £1158 and provided a total saving  to Mr R 
of almost £2,700.  He thought this was a fair approach and he therefore didnt think  it would 
be reasonable to ask VWFS to take any further  action.
Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion so the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr R so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN62329982Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Ive considered if Mr R has been  disadvantaged because he paid more advanced rentals.
It was Mr Rs choice to pay 12 advanced rentals. Ive not been provided with evidence that 
he was persuaded  to choose more rentals  rather than less so I dont think theres evidence 
the agreement  was mis-sold to him.
There were benefits in choosing a higher number of rentals as this would reduce the monthly  
instalments that were  due.
As the car was written  off significantly before  the end of the term Mr R will have paid more  in the 
period he had the car than he would  have if hed paid a smaller number of advanced rentals.
But I dont think its fair to hold VWFS  responsible  for that. It was Mr Rs choice to pay more  
upfront in order, presumably, for him to benefit from lower  monthly  repayments.  
Ive also thought about whether VWFS  have been fair in all the circumstances. Mr R is upset 
because he says they havent  provided  any goodwill payments but I dont agree. Mr R has 
benefitted from VWFSs lower valuation of the car as this reduced  the early  termination fee 
that was due. Hes also benefitted from them offering a preferred settlement  figure  which,  in 
itself, saved him over £1,158. 
So, I dont agree that VWFS have been unreasonable here and Im not asking them  to take 
any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6232998