K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about their treatment  by their mortgage  lender, The Co-operative  
Bank Plc trading as Platform. They say Platform hasnt shown understanding and 
consideration towards their health  conditions,  failed to recognise their financial situation was 
improving, and unnecessarily  started possession proceedings, adding  the costs to their 
mortgage balance.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a 15-year interest only mortgage in 2009. Since the loan was taken 
out, theyve experienced various  difficulties.  Mr S has a health condition  which  has 
prevented him working. And Mrs S gave up her job in early 2018 because  of her own health 
concerns.
Mr and Mrs S have  been in and out of arrears  for much of the life of the mortgage. This 
complaint concerns what happened in 2018,  following Mrs S stopping  work.
Mr and Mrs S were  already  in arrears at this point. They were in touch with Platform. Most of 
the discussions between  them and Platform were carried out in writing,  at Mr and Mrs Ss 
request. Platform transferred their account  to its specialist  team,  which deals with its more 
vulnerable customers.
In June 2018, Mrs S found another job, though she wouldnt  be paid until August. 
Correspondence between  Mr and Mrs S and Platform  continued, and Mr and Mrs S sent 
Platform a statement of their income  and expenditure, though they didnt commit  to making a 
specific contribution  to reducing  the arrears.
In early September 2018, Platform referred  Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage to its solicitors for 
repossession action to begin. Mr and Mrs S then made a lump  sum payment to clear  the 
arrears, so Platform didnt  proceed  with the proceedings. But it added legal costs  of around 
£620 to their mortgage account.
Mr and Mrs S complained. They said Platform hadnt acted fairly. It hadnt taken account of 
their health  and wider  circumstances;  it hadnt recognised that their financial position was 
improving and recovering; and seeking repossession  was inappropriate in the 
circumstances. They said Platform hadnt followed a proper process and sent them letters 
without allowing them chance to reply. It had relied on incorrect reasons for taking legal 
action  wrongly saying they hadnt made any payments. As a result they were caused 
significant stress. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  struggled,  off and on, with their mortgage for most of its life. They  have 
been in arrears for much  though not all  of the time since  it was taken out. While this 
complaint is specifically about  what happened between April and September  2018, the 
history is part of the context behind the actions both parties  took.
Ref: DRN63995422In April 2018, Mrs S stopped working due to stress  and anxiety. This meant that they only 
had Mr Ss pension income  and struggled  to make their mortgage  payments as a result.
Mr and Mrs S say that, in its final response  to their complaint, Platform said they didnt make 
any payments during  this period. They did, and so they feel this isnt a fair statement and 
undermines the reasons  it gave for taking  repossession  action. But I think  theres  been  a 
misunderstanding here. I dont think Platform was suggesting that they hadnt made any 
payment at all; rather, it was saying that they hadnt  made any payments towards the 
arrears. And that is true  during this period Mr and Mrs S made  payments, but made less 
than their contractual payments.  This meant that they werent paying anything to reduce the 
arrears, which  instead  were increasing.
This is the history of the account in the relevant  period:
Month Arrears at 
start of 
monthPayment due
Payment made
Arrears at 
end of 
month
April 2018 £855.12 £585.44 £200 £1240.56
May 2018 £1240.56 £585.44 £390 £1436.00
June 2018 £1436.00 £585.44 £125 + 
£220£1676.44
July 2018 £1676.44 £585.44 Nil £2261.88
August 2018 £2261.88 £585.44 £195 + 
£300£2352.32
September 2018 £2352.32 £585.44 £586 + 
£2357.76Nil
As the table shows, Mr and Mrs S were making  payments  but they werent  paying  enough  
to cover their monthly payments, and as a result  the arrears increased. They werent  paying  
anything towards the arrears (until the lump  sum in September, after Platform moved  to 
repossession).
Ive reviewed all the correspondence  between Mr and Mrs S and Platform over this period. 
Mr and Mrs S were  keeping in touch with Platform. Platforms  right that they didnt make  
specific proposals to clear the arrears or contribute to doing so. They sent in a statement of 
their income and expenditure which showed  the monthly payments as affordable   though  
they didnt make the monthly payments until September  and didnt set out an amount they 
committed to pay each  month.
I dont think Platforms letters to Mr and Mrs S were inappropriate or threatening. Its true that 
they warned them that repossession might follow if the arrears  continued  to grow. But I dont 
think thats threatening  at least not in the sense  of being aggressive or inappropriate. It 
was a warning of the consequences that might flow from not keeping  up with the mortgage  
and a warning  the regulator requires Platform to give to anyone in arrears.
Ref: DRN63995423Im satisfied Platform was trying its best to work with Mr and Mrs S. It understood their 
situation and the difficulties they faced. It wrote  to them rather than called them,  at their 
request. While it sent them some standard letters, it also sent them tailored specific  ones 
addressing their correspondence.
Equally, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S were trying to work with Platform.  Within  the limits of the 
situation they found themselves in, they were trying  to do their best to stay on top of the 
mortgage and keep Platform up to date, though in general terms without  making specific 
proposals.
Its important I look at the decisions Platform made  based on what  it knew at the time  not 
with the benefit of hindsight. Mr and Mrs S say it should have been clear  that their situation 
was improving and recovering. But I dont think that was clear  at the time. They said so, in 
their letters.  And the income and expenditure they sent Platform  showed the mortgage was 
affordable. But they werent able to make  even their contractual monthly payments  let 
alone reduce the arrears  until September even  though Mrs S started her new job in June.  
Mr and Mrs S have  said she was paid in arrears,  so received her first salary payment in 
August but they didnt pay the full payment in that month either. Throughout  this period the 
arrears continued  to grow, as the table above shows. 
I think it was also reasonable for Platform to take into account the previous history,  over the 
ten years  since Mr and Mrs S took the mortgage  out. They had struggled with it for much of 
that time,  and had been in arrears  more often than not. I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Platform to conclude that Mr and Mrs S werent able to stay on track with their mortgage, 
that their position was worsening, and that things had reached  the point where it needed to 
take further action.
Based on what was known at the end of August  and the beginning of September,  therefore, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Platform to contemplate legal proceedings. Once Mr and 
Mrs S cleared the arrears  using  a gift from a family member  it withdrew the proceedings. 
That was the right thing to do in those changed circumstances.
Im satisfied Platform recognised Mr and Mrs Ss vulnerability and their health conditions, 
and made  appropriate adjustments. It wrote  to them rather  than called, as they had 
requested. Their account was managed by the specialist team, until it was referred  to the 
litigation team. But their difficult circumstances dont mean  that it was unfair  for Platform to 
move to legal  action. It had shown  significant  forbearance over several  years, and things 
didnt seem to be getting any better.  
Repossession should be a last resort.  Forbearance  should be explored first. But the purpose  
of forbearance  is to give breathing space so a borrower can get the mortgage back  on track. 
Given all the history, and what  it knew, it was reasonable for Platform  to conclude  that was 
unlikely in early  September. As it turned  out, with family support Mr and Mrs S were able to 
clear the arrears and maintain their payments.  But, without the benefit of hindsight, I dont 
think that was the most likely outcome  at the time. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Ss upset  and frustration. But for the reasons Ive given I dont 
think Platform acted unfairly,  and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN63995424Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6399542