K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about a payment he made to a garage not being  stopped  by Santander  
UK Plc after he requested for this to happen.
background
On 4 August  2018 Mr G made an online payment to a garage.  Mr G has explained that he 
was told that if he made the payment online, his car could be returned to him. The car was 
duly returned. But Mr G says he became concerned about the situation  so called Santander 
to ask that the payment  be stopped. 
Mr G then asked that a section 75 claim be raised. Santander advised him that they couldnt 
do this as he hadnt made the payment with a credit  card but they could pursue this as a 
fraud claim. Santander  however was unable to retrieve the funds this way. 
Unhappy with the situation, Mr G raised a complaint with Santander. Santander  didnt uphold  
this matter. 
Dissatisfied with the outcome, Mr G referred  his complaint to our service. An investigator  
didnt think Santander  had acted unfairly  or unreasonably in respect of the online payment. 
But he did recommend Santander pay Mr G £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused  him when he brought his complaint to our service. Santander 
mistakenly advised our service that the account  in question was a joint account.  This turned 
out to be incorrect.  Santander has agreed  to pay the £100  compensation  so this aspect of 
the complaint  has now been settled. 
Mr G has however requested that the online payment  element of his complaint be passed to 
an ombudsman to be looked at. Mr G still feels strongly that Santander failed to take any 
steps to hold the online payment back.  Santander  has since claimed that whilst Mr G has 
provided evidence  of a call to Santander  on 4 August 2018 at 10.54, they have been unable  
to locate any records of an advisor accessing any of his accounts  on this date.  Santander 
has also noted that the payment to the garage was set up at 11.42, and therefore after the 
call Mr G says he made.  As such they feel, whatever the intention  behind the call, its 
unlikely to be because  Mr G was trying to cancel the payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has kindly provided us with a copy of an itemized phone  bill which  shows a call being  
made to Santander  on 4 August 2018 at 10.54.  And I understand Santander has been 
unable to find a record of this call. But I too question the purpose of the call when the online 
payment, according  to Santander, was not set up until 11.42.  
Santander say they cant find any records of any advisor accessing Mr Gs account  on 4 
August 2018.  Ive looked at the correspondence  between Mr G and Santander. I think  
Santander acted  fairly  in trying to assist Mr G in retrieving the funds. I cant  say they were  
wrong to not pursue a section 75 claim as the payment wasnt  made with a credit card. The 
payment was made online via faster payment. And as such  I dont think  it couldve been 
recalled. 
Ref: DRN60311992I note Santander  raised  this as a fraud claim.  But this claim was subsequently unsuccessful 
as the transaction was considered authorised. 
Santander contacted the beneficiary bank in an attempt to recover  the funds. But they were 
advised that there were no longer funds in this account. As I understand theyd been cleared 
on 13 August 2018. 
Overall I cant  say Santander has acted unfairly. And so I dont think  they need  to do 
anything further  in respect of this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6031199