K821x#15Complaint
Mr K complains that Liberty Sipp Limited  (Liberty) shouldnt have allowed him to transfer his 
pension into a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) and make  an unregulated investment.  
Background
Mr K held benefits in a pension scheme with B&CE  Pensions which had a cash value of 
around £27,000. In 2012 he was contacted by a business called Avacade who he says 
advised him to transfer his pension to a SIPP with Liberty and make an unregulated  
investment into a business called Ethical Forestry. Ethical Forestry is now in liquidation and 
it seems likely that Mr K has lost his entire investment.
Mr K complained that he received poor advice about  the SIPP and investment and that 
Liberty was charging  him fees despite  failing to manage things properly. 
Liberty rejected  Mr Ks complaint. It said it provided  an execution only service and didnt and 
couldnt provide  advice  to Mr K and was obliged to follow investment instructions. Liberty 
said it carried out checks on the Ethical Forestry  investment  to ensure it could be held in a 
SIPP. 
It said it fulfilled its obligations and Mr K had signed documents  acknowledging  Libertys 
limited role and which contained warnings about investing in esoteric  investments and 
recommended he take advice  from a qualified adviser. 
Ive set out some further details about  the entities and chronology involved below.
Liberty
Liberty is a SIPP  provider and administrator. It is authorised, in relation  to SIPPs,  to arrange 
(bring about)  deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish,  operate 
or wind up a pension scheme,  and to make arrangements with a view to transactions  in 
investments.
Avacade
Avacade was an unregulated business  based in the UK. Liberty has provided  a pack of 
documents which detail how Avacade conducted  its business. Liberty says it obtained these 
documents as part of the due diligence checks it carried out on Avacade.  
Avacade operated a call centre.  Amongst the documents Liberty provided to us is a training 
presentation given  to staff joining Avacades call centre. 
The training  presentation sets out Avacades business model, which  was to:
Contact consumers by telephone  whose  details had been obtained from online 
surveys or via websites.
To obtain  as much  information as possible about any pension savings the consumers 
held.
To encourage  the consumers to sign a letter of authority which would  be brought to 
them by a courier. This was required to allow Avacade to request information from 
Ref: DRN61155722pension providers on the consumers behalf  so that Avacade could put together  a 
pension report for the consumer. 
Once a report had been provided, to walk the consumer through it and present 
them with a choice  of options as to what they can do with their pensions. 
If the consumer chose a SIPP to then offer the consumer a choice from Avacades 
investment portfolio. 
The presentation also said that the letter of authority the consumers would be asked to sign 
was in the name of a business called Cherish Wealth Management, and the reason the 
presentation gives for this is: 
pension companies respond  better  to information requests from them than non-
regulated companies . 
I note that Cherish  Wealth Management  Limited  was an appointed representative of 
Shah Wealth  Management  Limited which was an authorised firm between 10 June 2009 and 
15 January 2018.
The presentation said that staffs  objective  was to generate reports which were then 
converted  to investments in our product. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued civil proceedings against Avacade  in 
November 2017.  A statement on its website says:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has commenced civil proceedings against 
Avacade Limited (in liquidation), trading as Avacade Investment Options, and 
Alexandra Associates (U.K.) Limited, trading as Avacade Future Solutions, and 
against Craig Lummis, Lee Lummis and Raymond Fox.
The FCA is alleging that Avacade and Alexandra Associates provided a pension  
report service,  marketed  as summarising a consumers pension  information and 
retirement objective to help consumers to decide what  to do with their pension. In 
performing that service,  Avacade  promoted self-invested personal pensions  (SIPPs) 
and investments in alternative investments such as tree plantations.
The FCA alleges that these firms  made misleading statements, carried  out regulated 
activities in the UK without FCA authorisation or exemption,  and communicated 
financial promotions without the required authorisation or approval contrary to the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the Financial  Services  Act 2012.  The 
FCA also alleges that Craig Lummis, Lee Lummis and Raymond Fox were  each  
knowingly concerned  in Avacades  breaches  and Craig Lummis and Lee Lummis 
were each knowingly  concerned in Alexandra  Associates breaches.
The FCA is seeking restitution orders in favour of consumers who were  affected by 
these breaches as well as declarations of contravention and injunctions to prevent 
further breaches. The court proceedings are at an early stage and no date for trial 
has been set.
I understand there hasnt yet been judgment  in these proceedings.  
Liberty and Avacade 
Ref: DRN61155723Liberty accepted  introductions of business  from Avacade, such as that of Mr K, from 2011 to 
2013. 
Liberty and Avacade agreed  Terms  of Business in a letter dated 12 August 2011 but signed 
on 8 September  2011.The letter includes the following statement:
I hereby  confirm that we [Avacade] have  recommended the Liberty SIPP  to hold 
certain investments  that we act as an introducing agent for. We are not regulated to 
give financial  advice and have therefore  not given any with regards setting up the 
SIPP and placing the investment(s). We have only offered  the investment to suitable 
individuals who have  fully understood the SIPP and Investment  process.
I understand that Liberty will produce  their Member Investment Declaration which will 
make the customer aware of the potential risks and illiquid nature of unregulated 
investments. I further understand that such a declaration will need to be signed by 
the member before the investment takes  place.
The relationship between Liberty  SIPP and Avacade Investment Options is strictly as 
an introducer and due to the fact that we are not regulated by the FSA, Liberty 
havent and will not pay me any fees or commission.
We asked Liberty to provide us with some  further details of its overall dealings with Avacade.  
In response, it said: 
Between August 2011 and December 2013, 1,642 clients  were referred to Liberty by 
Avacade where the client subsequently  invested in what  Liberty  calls non-
mainstream pooled  investments. 
This represented 28.8% of Libertys total client base and approximately  15% of its 
assets under  administration. 
Avacade introduced four investments  Sustainable AgroEnergy, Ethical  Forestry,  
Global Plantations and InvestUS.
All were  execution only sales.
65% of the transfers were from occupational pension schemes. 
Liberty also provided a bundle of documents it says it had regard to when  considering 
whether it should  accept  business from Avacade. These, in addition to the training material 
mentioned above,  include:
Samples of pension  reports Avacade produced (these post-date  Mr Ks business 
being introduced by Avacade).
A letter showing that a firm of solicitors  was appointed to review Avacades  business 
in early 2012 (we have not been provided  with details  of the outcome of that review). 
A letter from a further firm of solicitors  which was appointed to conduct another 
review in 2013. This shows  a number of recommendations  were  made  to Avacade in 
2013.  
Information about Avacade drawn  from Companies House. 
Ref: DRN61155724Avacades compliance guidance.
Some quality assessments Avacade completed on its members of staff.  
Mr Ks dealings with Liberty and Avacade
Mr K says he received  a call from Avacade  after making an online  enquiry. He says he 
wasnt told about the risks to his pension but was told he would get a good return  and that 
there was nothing  to worry  about. He says Avacade sent him documents by courier  for 
signature.
The application form for the SIPP he signed  was pre-populated. It contained a declaration 
that Mr K acknowledged that Liberty  provided  an execution only service and did not give him 
advice.
He also signed  an investment instruction form (on Liberty headed paper) which  read as 
follows: 
I, [Mr K] being  the member of the above  Scheme  write to instruct  Liberty SIPP Ltd 
acting on behalf  of Liberty Trustees  Ltd to purchase [the Ethical  Forestry investment] 
for a consideration of £21,300  on my behalf  for the above Scheme.
I confirm that I have considered the information  prospectus provided by the product 
provider and I am fully aware that this investment is High Risk and/or Speculative,  
may be illiquid and/or difficult to value  or sell and confirm that I wish to proceed.  I 
also understand that if I have any queries regarding the investment I can request an 
investment review from Liberty which will outline  the structure of the investment and 
the underlying  companies involved. 
I acknowledge that Ive been  recommended to seek professional  advice from a 
suitably qualified and authorised adviser  however I have chosen  not to seek  advice 
for this transaction.
I am fully aware that Liberty  SIPP Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis as directed by 
me as scheme member and that Liberty SIPP Ltd has not provided  any advice 
whatsoever in respect of this investment or the SIPP.
Should any aspect of this investment be subject to a tax charge within the pension  
scheme any such charges  will be paid directly from the fund or by me as the member 
of the Scheme.
I agree  to provide Liberty SIPP Ltd with any further information and/or documentation  
they may require prior to completing the purchase  of this investment.
I also understand and agree that, in the event  of my death, if Liberty  SIPP Ltd is 
unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales  that it will be transferred  to my 
beneficiaries through my estate  (where  possible)  and accordingly may be subject to 
any Inheritance Tax.
I indemnify Liberty  SIPP Ltd against  any and all liability arising from this investment.
Mr K also signed a document which said:
Ref: DRN61155725Dear Sir or Madam
I authorise Avacade Ltd to liaise directly  with you on my behalf and be party to 
information relating  to:
* My current SIPP or SIPP application
* My current Investment or Investment  applications
* The current value  of the SIPP Including  the cash within it
I confirm that I have not been advised on the suitability of any investment product(s) 
and that Avacade are offering information  only as well as an administration service 
for processing the business.
Liberty accepted  the application in July 2012 and received the transfer  of funds of around 
£27,000 from Mr Ks previous pension a short time later. £21,300 was then used to make the 
investment in Ethical Forestry with the remainder left in cash  in the SIPP.  
Ethical Forestry
This was a high risk unregulated investment. The stated objective  of Ethical Forestry was to 
provide capital growth through tropical woodland  in Costa  Rica. 
There appear to be two types  of trees crops offered as investments, Acacia tree crops and 
Melina tree crops. The two types  of investment worked in a similar fashion. The Ethical 
Forestry brochure said that the investment worked by planting trees for private  investors and 
institutions on a for profit basis on plantations  in Costa Rica.  The trees would be grown and 
then harvested  for their wood for sale to the timber trade.
This investment is now under criminal investigation by the Serious Fraud Office  (SFO). I 
understand Mr K has received no return from it. 
Investigators findings
After Liberty refused  to uphold Mr Ks complaint,  the complaint was referred to our service  
and looked at by one of our investigators. Liberty  objected to this as it thought the complaint  
should be dismissed and was better suited for consideration  by The Pensions  Ombudsman 
(TPO).
In summary,  the investigators findings were  as follows:
Our service had jurisdiction to consider Mr Ks complaint, it shouldnt be dismissed  
and it wasnt more  suitable for consideration by TPO.
Liberty isnt responsible for the advice Mr K says he received. However, it did have a 
responsibility to carry out sufficient due diligence on both Avacade, before accepting  
business from it and the investment, prior to accepting it into the SIPP.
Liberty did carry out some due diligence on Avacade  but, having  done so, it should 
have concluded  that it was not appropriate  to accept  introductions  from Avacade. It 
ought to have known that there  was a high chance  that a lot of, if not all, the business  
introduced by Avacade would pose  a high risk of significant consumer detriment.
Ref: DRN61155726Liberty should have  been concerned at the fact that Avacade  was acting as an 
introducer to a few esoteric unregulated investments that were likely to be suitable  
only for a small proportion of a sophisticated investors portfolio.
Many  of the documents Liberty  were provided with ought to have raised concerns 
about how Avacade, an unregulated business, could conduct its business  model  
without crossing the line into carrying on regulated activities. The investigator thought 
there were clear indications  of this from the agreement  between Liberty and 
Avacade, the pension reports Avacade was generating and the training material  it 
provided.
Liberty should also have been  concerned  that Avacade was filling  out application 
documents on behalf of customers and thought about whether this might  amount to 
carrying on the regulated activity of making arrangements  in relation to an 
investment.
Liberty should have  identified  that it was anomalous that Avacade  was introducing  
customers in such high volumes with no regulated adviser involved, including high 
volumes of transfers from occupational pension schemes. Liberty ought to have had 
cause for concern  about any applications  of this nature being received and the fact 
that they were  frequent should  have given Liberty immediate cause for concern. it 
ought to have known that it was unlikely that giving up protected benefits for esoteric 
investments was suitable for so many  retail customers and Liberty ought to have 
been alert to and questioned this pattern.
The fact that Mr K had signed  a number of disclaimers  acknowledging that the 
investments he was making  were high risk and that neither Avacade nor Liberty was 
offering advice did not change the fact that Liberty ought to have had serious  
concerns about Avacade.
Another investigator followed up these findings with a further letter  setting out why he 
also felt that Liberty had not met its obligations to carry  out due diligence  on the 
Ethical Forestry investment. He said in this respect that:
oLiberty had relied only on two third party reports prepared  by ThreeSixty and 
Enhance Support Solutions and failed to carry out independent checks.
oBut even  those  third party  reports highlighted issues with the Ethical Forestry 
investment in that there was no investor  protection, no liquidity, it could not be 
independently valued and was very high risk.
oLiberty ought to also have had regard to how the investment was being 
marketed and realised  that the marketing material was misleading.
oLiberty should have  been mindful, at all times, of the fact the business was 
being introduced by an unregulated firm, and the consumer was investing  a 
significant part of their SIPP in Ethical Forestry.
Libertys submissions
Mr K had no further submissions. But Liberty  didnt  agree with the investigators  findings. In 
summary, it has said:
Ref: DRN61155727It still objects to us investigating  the complaint as it believes the complaint is better 
suited to be considered by TPO or a Court. The FCA Dispute Resolution  (DISP) rules 
require that the ombudsman  consider whether another  complaints scheme might  be 
more suitable  and whether it is inappropriate for the Financial Ombudsman  Service  
to deal with a complaint.
The investigator hadnt expressly set out why this service is more suitable  than the 
TPO to deal with this matter. 
The investigator hadnt properly set out the legal  obligations of a SIPP operator. The 
case of Heather Moor  & Edgecombe  v Financial  Ombudsman Service [2008] Bus LR 
1486 established that, if the Ombudsman Service departs from the relevant law, it 
must state that it is doing so and explain why. The investigator failed to identify  what  
the relevant law required of Liberty at the relevant  time. 
The case  of Denning  v Greenhalgh [2017] EWHC 143 (QB) illustrated that Libertys 
obligations as an execution only SIPP operator  did not extend to advising on the 
decision to transfer. In the Denning case,  it was held that a second advice firm was 
not responsible  for alerting the complainant to defective advice  given by a previous 
adviser because  of the scope of the retainer between  the second  adviser  and the 
complainant. Similarly, any liability Liberty  has should be strictly  limited  to that which  
arises from the operation  and administration of the SIPP and not the investment 
decisions made by Mr K. 
The investigator had said that Liberty  had a duty to protect against 'detrimental' or 
'unsuitable' SIPPs, but didnt explain what these terms meant.  In the absence of such 
terms being clearly defined, it wasnt  fair and reasonable to conclude  that Liberty 
failed to safeguard  against such SIPPs. On this point, Liberty  says that the FCA has 
not defined what  would constitute a 'detrimental SIPP' and so Liberty  is concerned 
that they are being held to account  based on what is demonstrably an uncertain 
standard.
The logic of the investigators position  is that, despite not being  permitted to assess  
and advise on suitability, Liberty will be responsible for facilitating unsuitable 
investments in SIPPs. This cant be right.
Liberty acknowledged that 2.1.1R  of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 
required Liberty to act honestly,  fairly  and professionally and this applied - but said 
that it did so only in the provision of the contracted service,  which here was an 
execution-only service.  Referencing  the case of Quinn v IG Index [2018]  EWHC  2478  
(Ch), Liberty said the duty did not require Liberty  to go beyond  its contractual remit in 
making extensive enquiries about  investments and/or reject certain investments after 
applying an unspecified yardstick  of unsuitable/detrimental  quality. 
There was no restriction on a SIPP provider  accepting  business from an unregulated  
introducer and there  was no evidence that Avacade did anything other than suggest 
the Liberty SIPP as an option to their customers.  The investigator had misinterpreted 
the Avacade documents in concluding that they showed that advice was being given.
Mr K signed disclaimers stating that Avacade did not give advice on the investment 
and the Avacade compliance  manual confirmed that staff should  not give advice.
Ref: DRN61155728The investigator wrongly concluded  that any recommendation of Liberty by Avacade 
would constitute  advice. This failed to recognise that advice requires a value 
judgment on the particular SIPP, rather than merely recommending  a provider. 
Avacade could  have  properly explained the characteristics  of the investment, the 
SIPP and the investment  process without giving  advice.  An introducer can select  a 
product attractive  for a particular customer and promote  it by describing its positive 
features without giving  advice.
Ethical Forestry was not a specified  investment for the purposes of the Regulated 
Activities Order.  There is therefore  nothing preventing  an unregulated entity giving 
advice on such an investment. 
The investigator referred to the Avacade pension reports  as not being balanced. 
However, there was no finding  that the reports were inaccurate or misleading.  The 
fact that reports did not advise on individual  circumstances is consistent with the fact 
that they were  not purporting to give investment advice.
The investigator said that Avacade was completing application forms and that this 
should have led to concerns that it was engaged  in a regulated activity (arranging). 
This is an error of law as assisting  a person by entering personal details on a form 
does not constitute the activity of arranging deals in investments. 
The fact that some customers were transferring from defined benefit  schemes  was 
irrelevant to complaints  such  as Mr Ks involving a switch  from a defined  contribution  
personal pension.  In any event, there was no reason for Liberty as a SIPP  operator 
to be concerned about the suitability of defined benefit transfers, which the regulator  
identified as an issue for regulated advice firms.
COBS 11.2.19R hadnt  been  properly considered. This says that in an execution  only 
transaction it is mandatory  for a SIPP  operator to execute the client's instructions. 
Liberty had to follow the rule in COBS and to execute his investment instructions. If it 
had not done so then it would have been in breach of the rules and subject to 
penalties.
Liberty had been the subject of a regulator  supervision visit in 2011 and again  in 
September 2012 and 2013 and the regulator hadnt expressed any concerns about 
its due diligence  on Avacade.  Rather, in 2012  Liberty had been told it could continue 
accepting business from Avacade.  Furthermore, when it carried  out further 
inspections in 2013 about another  unrelated non-standard investment, the regulator  
acknowledged in correspondence that the due diligence for that investment was 
undertaken before the regulator had updated its SIPP  operator guidance and prior to 
the delivery of the SIPP operator  seminars, where  clarity on [the regulators] 
expectations in this area was provided.
This all showed that it is not fair to criticise Liberty  by reference to the FCA 
publications when  Liberty reasonably took the view that the regulator was fully aware 
and approving of its procedures.
The investigator had failed to establish causation for the loss. Liberty says there is no 
basis to conclude that, if it had refused Mr Ks application, he wouldnt have still gone 
ahead with the investment by another means.
Ref: DRN61155729In respect of the Ethical  Forestry investment, Liberty says:
The investigator is wrong, it did more than rely on the two third party reports  identified  
by the investigator. Liberty  says it completed appropriate due diligence  based on the 
requirements and guidance at the time. Liberty says it wasnt required to carry out 
due diligence  in forensic detail  but did enough  to meet its obligations.  It provided  
copies of the following documents to illustrate  the due diligence it carried  out:
oVarious Agricultural Leasing contracts for land in Costa  Rica from May 2011 
and 2013;
oA Certificate of Incorporation for Ethical Forestry dated December 2007;
oAn annual return for Ethical Forestry Limited  from January 2010;
oAbbreviated accounts for Ethical Forestry Limited dated 31 December  2010;
oIdentity/money laundering checks for a director of Ethical  Forestry  from 
August 2010;
oAn undated copy of a company search  of Ethical  Forestry;
oCorrespondence between the Financial Services Authority and Ethical  
Forestry from April 2008 setting out that the scheme  was unlikely to be an 
unregulated collective investment scheme.
oA one page  Bright  Star accountants  report dated 10 August 2012;
oAn undated three page  due diligence checklist on Ethical  Forestry  prepared 
by Enhance Support Solutions;
oA due diligence report prepared by Best International  dated  March 2013;
oGroup Strategic Report,  Report of the Directors and Consolidated Financial 
Statements for the year ended 30 September 2013 For Ethical Forestry;
oAn undated brochure for Acacia  tree crops prepared by Ethical Forestry;
oVarious title guarantee and indemnity policy documents relating to property in 
Costa Rica 2011-2013;
The above  documents  were provided to us by Liberty in December 2019. Earlier,  
Liberty had provided  us with the following documents as evidence  of its due diligence 
on the Ethical Forestry  investment:
oAn undated two page due diligence checklist on Ethical Forestry prepared  by 
Enhance Support Solutions;
oAn undated ThreeSixty research paper on Ethical Forestry;
oA one page  Bright  Star accountants  report dated 10 August 2012 (the same 
as the document referred to above.
Ref: DRN611557210As a SIPP operator, Libertys obligations were  limited  to checking that Ethical 
Forestry was capable of being  held in a SIPP.  It couldnt give advice  and Mr K was 
free to take advice but chose not to do so.
Liberty disagreed  with the investigator  who said that Liberty was required  to check  
that the investment operated as claimed. This was beyond the duty of a SIPP 
operator.
There was no restriction on a SIPP operator  accepting esoteric investments. Mr K 
was made fully aware that the investment was high risk, unregulated, potentially  
illiquid, difficult to value and signed  disclaimers confirming that he was aware  of this. 
Obviously, a high-risk investment might  result in a loss of capital or it could provide a 
significant return if the risk pays off. High risk investments were suitable for many  
people. The investment in Ethical Forestry  was wholly legitimate and bona fide 
(something Liberty ascertained through its due diligence). Liberty shouldnt be held 
responsible for investment performance and the appropriateness of the investment 
for the customer.  That was outside the scope of Libertys duty as a SIPP operator.
Liberty was not in a position to ascertain  how achievable the proposed returns from 
the investment  were.  And although  the investigator had said that the promotional  
material didnt contain risk warnings, there  was no indication  that the projections 
were dishonest.
My findings
Jurisdiction and procedural issues
The first issue I must address is whether our service has jurisdiction to consider this 
complaint and whether we should  continue to do so. Having carefully considered Libertys  
submissions, Im of the view that Mr Ks complaint  is one we can and should  consider for 
essentially the same reasons as the investigator.
We have a statutory  duty to resolve complaints referred to us which are within our 
jurisdiction, subject to certain discretions which are set out in our rules. The Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA)  and the DISP section of the FCAs rules set out 
which complaints and complainants are eligible.
Im satisfied that, under those rules,  Mr K is an eligible complainant and he brings an eligible 
complaint. Thats because hes a consumer (a customer  of Liberty), and his complaint is 
about regulated  activities  and events  that took place in the UK. Theres been  no suggestion 
that the requirements under the DISP rules  havent  been met or that Mr K referred  his 
complaint to the Ombudsman Service outside the relevant time limits. So I conclude that we 
do have jurisdiction to decide Mr Ks complaint.
The rules  set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, at DISP 3.4.1R, say:
The Ombudsman  may refer a complaint to another complaints scheme  where:
(1)he considers that it would be more suitable  for the matter  to be determined by 
that scheme; and
Ref: DRN611557211(2)the complainant  consents to the referral.
Liberty has argued that Mr Ks complaint should  be referred to TPO.  And I could  now refer 
the complaint  to TPO on the basis of DISP  3.4.1R if I take the view it is more  suitable  for 
TPO and if, in the light of that view, Mr K now consents to a referral  to TPO. 
But I dont consider this is a complaint  that would be more  suitable for determination by TPO. 
And, although Liberty has said that it hasnt been given reasons for the refusal to refer 
Mr Ks complaint to TPO, I think its very clear  why its right that we continue to consider it. 
This complaint requires  consideration to be given to the rules and principles set down by the 
FCA. In my view, these are matters which this Service is particularly  well placed to deal with. 
Im also satisfied we possess the necessary  knowledge and expertise to consider  matters 
involving the difference between suitability and acceptability, and between advice and due 
diligence. Our investigation  is also well advanced. So I dont think it would be more  suitable 
for the subject matter  of this complaint to be considered  by TPO. 
Ive considered the Memorandum of Understanding  (MoU) dated 1 December 2017 between 
our service  and TPO. The MoU  is a document about  practical cooperation where there  is 
remit overlap between the two organisations  however the MoU doesnt determine  the 
jurisdiction of either organisation and it isnt legally binding.
Ultimately, DISP 3.4.1R says that I may refer the complaint to another  complaints scheme, 
not that I must.  So I have discretion to decide what I will do in the circumstances. And, for 
the reasons Ive given above,  Ive decided to exercise my discretion not to refer Mr Ks 
complaint to TPO.
For similar reasons,  Im satisfied that I dont  need  to exercise  my discretion to dismiss the 
complaint under DISP 3.3.4 A R as more suited  to a court  or comparable ADR entity. As Ive 
explained, the complaint is well suited  to the work of the Financial Ombudsman Service. We 
determine complaints  by reference to the relevant law and regulatory standards all the time. 
Thats what  we do and thats whats required to determine this complaint. We can deal with 
this case in the normal operation of this service  in resolving complaints.
So, overall:
Mr Ks complaint is within our jurisdiction.  
I dont consider this complaint is better suited for determination by TPO and Ive 
decided not to exercise my discretion to refer it. 
Im not required to dismiss this complaint, and for the reasons Ive given, Im not 
exercising my discretion to dismiss it.  
So, as Im satisfied that we do have jurisdiction to consider  this complaint, Ill now go on to 
consider the merits  of Mr Ks complaint.
Merits of the complaint
In accordance with my duty under section 228 of FSMA, I must determine  this complaint by 
reference to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case .  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  Im 
required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations;  
Ref: DRN611557212regulators rules,  guidance and standards; and codes of practice.  Im also required to take 
into account, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
time. 
Ive noted Libertys  reference to the Heather  Moore & Edgecombe case. To be clear, Im 
aware of the need to give reasons for my decision,  including where  I depart from the law. 
And I will do so in this decision.  
I consider the following  to be relevant  considerations in this complaint.
1.The Principles for Businesses
The FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance  to my decision on whats
fair and reasonable in this case.  The Principles, which are set out in the FCAs handbook, 
are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 and 6 say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
In British Bankers  Association, R (on the application of) v The Financial Services Authority & 
Anor, Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added.  The Principles always have  to be complied  with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them  and cannot  be used to contradict them. They  are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover.  The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment  specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach  a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had 
been produced  by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which  find expression in 
the Principles,  whoever  formulated them. They are of the essence of what  is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
In the recent decision of Berkeley Burke Sipp Administration Ltd v Financial Ombudsman 
Service Limited [2018] EWHC 2878  (Admin) (30 October 2018), Jacobs J said that it was 
correct that Principal 2 was a very wide general principle. At paragraph 93 he said of section 
228 FSMA:
Ref: DRN611557213Under that section,  it is for the Ombudsman  to decide what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the case.  Here, [the ombudsman who issued the decision in 
the case that was the subject of judicial review]  paid regard (as DISP  3.6.4R 
requires him to do) to the relevant regulators' rules, namely  Principles 2 and 6. The 
decision as to how those  Principles apply "in all the circumstances of the case" must  
be a matter for him
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by businesses. As such, I need to have regard to them  when deciding  what  is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
2.Conduct of Business  Sourcebook 2.1.1R
2.1.1R COBS is also relevant and says that:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its lient (the clients best interests rule).
This is a rule that was consulted on by the regulator  and provides a high level standard  that 
all firms must adhere to when transacting business with any consumer. Ive considered the 
Quinn v IG Index case that Liberty  has referred to in connection with COBS 2.1.1R. That 
case was in relation  to a very different factual  situation to this one. It was about  whether a 
spread betting  operator had treated its customer fairly by allowing him to make  a number of 
trades that he was subsequently unhappy  with. The Court  held that IG had fulfilled its duty to 
act in its clients best interests  (COBS  2.1.1R)  by complying with the COBS 10 duty to 
assess whether the service/product  was appropriate for the client. But COBS 10 isnt 
applicable here as I dont  think  the investment in Ethical Forestry met the requirements of 
being a Financial Instrument at the time. And, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think Libertys duty to act in its clients best interests can be said to be met simply by 
accepting business  and instructions without further  enquiry.  I think it was required to do more  
as Ill explain in detail  below.  
3.The regulators publications  for SIPP operators
The FSA and the FCA have made  a number  of publications which remind SIPP operators of 
their obligations  and set out how they might  achieve the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles, namely: 
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2009 (the 2009 report).
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2012 (the 2012 report).
A guide for Self-Invested Personal  Pensions  (SIPP) operators published by the 
FCA in October 2013 (the 2013 guidance). 
A letter from the FCAs Director of Supervision sent to the CEOs of all SIPP  
operators in July 2014 (the 2014 Dear CEO letter).
Ref: DRN611557214I think these too are relevant considerations in this complaint. I have considered them  in both 
determining what the regulator expected of firms and also in determining  what amounted to 
good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Like the investigator, I think the 2009 report is most  relevant to my consideration of this 
complaint. However,  Ive also quoted  selected  parts of the other publications which  I think  
are of particular relevance. But to be clear, Ive considered all the regulators publications in 
their entirety. 
The 2009  report  included  the following:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are 
obliged to ensure  the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS  purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes  clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP  operators to 
continuously analyse the individual risks to themselves and their clients,  with 
reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures  and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify  possible  instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable  SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting  the member  to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover,  while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent  that they had not identified obvious potential instances  of 
poor advice  and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts  and 
circumstances of individual  cases,  we may take enforcement action against  SIPP  
operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate  risk 
management systems).
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed  and suggestions  we have made  to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated  by the FSA, that they have  the 
appropriate permissions  to give the advice  they are providing to the firms  
clients, and that they do not appear  on the FSA website listing  warning 
notices.
Ref: DRN611557215Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying  
respective responsibilities,  with intermediaries  introducing SIPP  business.  
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced  the business.  This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate  clarification, e.g. from the client  or their 
adviser, if it is concerned  about  the suitability  of what was recommended.
Requesting copies  of the suitability  reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving  advice. While  SIPP operators are not responsible  for 
advice, having  this information would  enhance  the firms understanding  of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable  SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility  for their investment  decisions,  and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such  business.
Identifying  instances of clients waiving  their cancellation rights,  and the 
reasons for this.
As Ive said above  I think the 2009 report is particularly relevant as this complaint revolves 
around whether  Liberty had procedures and controls in place to identify  possible consumer 
detriment to Mr K by accepting his application to open a SIPP. In my view, part of that 
involves considering whether Liberty  ought  to have reasonably  identified  that Avacade was 
undertaking regulated activities whilst  not being  authorised to do so and that this could result 
in significant consumer detriment, especially given the nature of the investments Avacade 
was recommending. 
The 2009  report  highlights  a range of nonexhaustive examples of what the FCA considered 
to be good industry  practice for SIPP  operators  to adopt to safeguard their customers  
interests and illustrative of what SIPP operators could do to meet  their obligations  under  the 
Principles. One of the examples specifically  refers to execution  only business  and sets out:
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility  for their investment decisions, and gathering  and analysing  data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
In my opinion this demonstrates  that the 2009  report was considering what  SIPP operators 
should be doing in respect of execution only business where  there was no regulated 
financial advisor involved in the transaction. So, I think  the passages  Ive quoted from the 
2009 report are very relevant to my consideration of this complaint. 
The 2012  report  included  the following:
Principle 2 of the Principles for Business, states a firm must conduct  its business 
with due skill, care and diligence.
Ref: DRN611557216Some SIPP operators were unable to demonstrate that they are conducting adequate 
due diligence  on the investments held by their members  or the introducers  who use 
their schemes, to identify  potential risks to their members  or to the firms  itself.  In 
some firms this was made worse  by an over-reliance on third parties  to conduct due 
diligence on behalf of the operator. In some cases  this has resulted in taxable 
investments being  inadvertently held, and monies  invested in potentially fraudulent 
investments.
The 2013  guidance included the following:
This guide, originally  published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory  requirements. These  are not new or 
amended requirements,  but a reminder  of regulatory  responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms,  regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2)  is clear that a member  of a pension  
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer  under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.
Examples of good practice we observed  during our work with SIPP  operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that introducers  that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated  by the FCA, that they have 
the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; 
neither the firm, nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited 
individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear  disciplinary history;  and 
that the firm does not appear on the website listings for un-authorised 
business warnings.

Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP  
business it administers.  Examples of good  practice  we have identified include: 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  operators  
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers.
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain  appropriate and sufficient  due diligence (for example,  checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate  for 
personal pension  schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
Ref: DRN611557217 ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
 periodically  reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members  and the 
scheme
 having  checks which may include, but are not limited to
 ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and skills 
to introduce different types of business to the firm, and undertaking additional  checks  
such as viewing Companies House records, identifying connected parties  and visiting 
introducers;
 ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses  or relies on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
 good practices we have  identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks,  or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept  to either deal with introducers  or accept investments, and 
 ensuring these benchmarks clearly  identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business,  or to undertake  further investigations  such  as 
instances of potential pension liberation,  investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments  and non-standard  investments  that have not been approved 
by the firm 
The 2014  Dear CEO  letter  provides another reminder that the Principles apply  and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations  about  the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged  by the Principles. The letter said:
As you may be aware, we have  recently conducted  a thematic review of SIPP 
operators following  up on the guidance we issued in October 2013 (FG13/8). In this 
review, we focused on:
The due diligence procedures  SIPP operators used to assess non-
standard investments, and
How all firms were  adhering to the relevant prudential rules.
During our review, we found that a significant  number of SIPP  operators are still 
failing to manage these risks and ensure consumers are protected appropriately, 
despite our recent guidance. In our view,  the failings we identified  put UK consumers 
pension savings at considerable  risk, particularly from scams  and pension  fraud. We 
have already discussed this with the firms  concerned, explaining that these failings 
are unacceptable  and need to be addressed.
Im now writing to you, and the CEOs of all SIPP operators, because our thematic  
review indicates that these failings continue and are widespread,  despite  previous 
communications. We are concerned that many firms in this sector  continue  to 
Ref: DRN611557218demonstrate a lack of engagement with some areas of their regulatory obligations, 
and hence pose a threat  to the quality of outcomes experienced  by consumers.
I would encourage  you to review the key findings  from our thematic  review  in the 
Annex to this letter, and ask you to take action to ensure that your business is able to 
demonstrate an appropriate degree of protection for consumers pension savings.
Where firms fail to meet our expectation  and continue  to put UK consumers 
outcomes at risk we will take further action.
The Annex to the 2014 Dear CEO letter included the following: 
Due diligence on non-standard investment business
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Business requires all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  SIPP operators should ensure that they 
conduct and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence, for example, assessing 
that assets allowed into a scheme are appropriate for a pension scheme. Our 
thematic review found that most SIPP operators failed to undertake adequate due 
diligence on high-risk, speculative and non-standard investments despite being  
aware of the Financial  Services Authority (FSA) guidance originally published  in 2012 
which clarified our expectations  of firm conduct.
Our review assessed due diligence processes in these five key areas: 
correctly establishing  and understanding the nature  of an investment 
ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation  
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable) 
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of 
purchase and subsequently,  and 
ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous 
investors have received  income  if expected, or that any investment  providers  
are credit  worthy etc.) 
Please note that the due diligence necessary  for individual investments  may vary 
depending on the circumstances, and the five areas highlighted above are not 
exhaustive. 
We found that most firms  do not have the expertise or resources to assess  this type 
of business, but were  still allowing transactions  to go ahead. This increases the risk 
that a pension scheme may become a vehicle for high risk and speculative 
investments that are not secure assets,  many  of which could  be scams. It is not 
acceptable for firms to put consumers at risk this way. 
Although our thematic  review focussed on non-standard investments, it is important 
to note that guidance on due diligence applies to all investments. 
Ref: DRN611557219Findings from our review  included firms  failing  to: 
understand the nature of an investment, especially contracts  for rights 
to future income, and sale and repurchase agreements 
check that money was being  paid to legitimate businesses, and 
to independently verify that assets  were real and secure, or that 
investment schemes operated as claimed  
We found that, typically, firms had difficulty completing due diligence  for non-
standard overseas investment schemes  where firms did not have access to local 
qualified legal professionals or accountants. Also, since the last review  of SIPP 
operators, we noted an increase in the number of opaque investment structures,  
such as special purpose vehicles and limited  companies, created to pool investment 
monies and finance  other businesses. Firms had difficulty establishing where  money 
was being sent, and whether underlying investment propositions were genuine. 
We also found that many SIPP operators  accepted  investments  into their schemes 
without adequate consideration of how investments could be valued  or realised. 
Finally, we found many firms continuing  to rely on marketing and promotional 
material produced  by investment providers as part of due diligence processes, 
despite previous  guidance  highlighting the need for independent assessment of 
investments.
I appreciate that the 2009 and 2012  reports and the 2014 Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance, whilst the 2013 guidance  is formal  guidance.  But this doesnt  mean  their 
importance should be underestimated in my determination of what  is fair and reasonable. 
The reports  and Dear  CEO letter provide a reminder that the Principles apply  and give 
examples of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customer  
fairly and produce  the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators  expectations of what  SIPP operators should be 
doing also goes  some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
Its also important to point  out that although some  of the publications Ive listed  above were  
made after the events  subject  to complaint, the Principles that underpin  them existed 
throughout. So, a business was  always required to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence  (Principle  2) and take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3) and pay 
due regard to the interests  of its clients and treat them  fairly (Principle 6). 
It is also clear  from the text of the publications that the regulator  expected  SIPP operators to 
have incorporated  the recommended good  practices into the conduct  of their business 
already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some  industry  participants  
understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected  of SIPP  operators  changed  
over time, its clear  the standards themselves did not change  and applied at the time Liberty 
accepted this business from Avacade.
In any event, this doesnt  mean that in considering  what is fair and reasonable, I will only 
consider Libertys  actions  with these publications in mind. The reports, letter  and guidance 
Ref: DRN611557220gave non-exhaustive guidance. They did not say the suggestions  given were  the limit of 
what a SIPP  operator  should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should 
be done to meet such regulatory obligations  is dependent on the circumstances. It was for a 
business to decide for itself how to meet its regulatory obligations  it should  not have been 
reliant on the regulator to tell it what to do. 
Having said all of the above, I reiterate the starting point is that Im required to make a 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
What did Libertys obligations mean?
It isnt in dispute that Liberty knew that Mr Ks business was being introduced by Avacade.  
And Im satisfied that Principles 2, 3 and 6 as well as COBS 2.1.1R together mean  that 
Liberty was obliged to treat Mr K fairly  when deciding whether to accept or reject  the 
introduction of his business by Avacade and the investment in Ethical Forestry and to act in 
his best interests.  
To do this, Liberty needed to conduct sufficient due diligence  on Avacade and on the 
Ethical Forestry investment and have  appropriate  systems and controls  in place for business 
introduced to it so that it could ensure that it monitored, identified (and prevented)  instances 
of consumer detriment.  In terms of the introduction from Avacade,  I think  its reasonable to 
say that the likelihood  of consumer detriment is much higher where customers havent 
received advice from a regulated adviser.  And with regard  to the investment, I think  Libertys 
obligations went further than just checking  whether the Ethical Forestry investment was 
SIPP-able in that it would not give rise to a tax charge. I consider  that Liberty had a duty to 
act in Mr Ks best interests, put a stop to things and not accept Mr Ks SIPP application if, 
having carried out appropriate  due diligence, it identified an obvious risk of consumer 
detriment.
I know that Liberty is of the view that its role was purely executional and so any imposition of 
the aforementioned obligations would hold it accountable as if it had given advice or should 
have given advice  to Mr K. Its also asked  me to consider the case of Denning  v Greenhalgh 
(the facts  of which I set out above) in this context to argue that its obligations to Mr K didnt 
go beyond its contract  with Mr K to act as his SIPP  operator.
I agree  that Libertys obligations  as an execution only SIPP operator did not extend to 
advising on the decision to transfer.  It was not retained by Mr K to provide advice. But the 
fact that Liberty  itself wasnt  required to give advice does not mean that it didnt  have to meet  
its own distinct regulatory obligations by thinking  carefully about  the business  it was 
accepting  including both who it was accepting introductions from and the investments it 
was accepting into the SIPPs it was administering. As a SIPP  operator  there  were  certain  
regulatory duties  that Liberty  had to meet irrespective of the existence  or otherwise of a 
specific retainer to this effect with Mr K.  
I also think that declining to accept business  from an introducer does not amount to 
providing advice.  Liberty,  acting fairly,  could have  declined to accept Mr Ks application for a 
SIPP without  providing him with investment  advice.  It didnt have to carry out an assessment 
of Mr Ks needs and circumstances in order to meet its regulatory obligations in this regard.  
Ref: DRN611557221What due diligence  should Liberty have carried out on Avacade?
Taking into account all the available evidence  and the relevant considerations Ive described  
above and whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case,  I think Liberty 
should at least  have conducted the following due diligence when accepting introductions 
from Avacade:
Liberty should have  taken  steps  to understand the nature of Avacades business 
model and how it proposed to introduce  customers to Liberty without undertaking 
regulated activities.
Liberty should have  ensured that it had terms of business in place with Avacade  
governing the relationship and clarifying  the respective  roles  and responsibilities.
Liberty should have  reasonably ensured  that any parties that had advised  the 
customers introduced by Avacade were authorised and regulated  by the regulator  
and that they had the appropriate permissions  to be giving  the advice they were 
providing and that they didnt appear  on the regulators warning notices.
Liberty should have  undertaken checks at Companies House to ascertain who was 
operating Avacade.
Liberty should have  identified  the type, size and nature of investments  that were  
being introduced by Avacade.
Liberty should have  routinely identified instances  of execution-only clients who had 
signed disclaimers taking  responsibility for their investment decisions and gathered 
and analysed the data regarding the aggregate volume of such  business.
This isnt an exhaustive or prescriptive list. But I think  it is representative  of some of the 
basic steps Liberty should have adopted when considering  introductions from Avacade, 
including before accepting the business from Mr K. 
Did Liberty  conduct sufficient due diligence and otherwise act fairly  and reasonably  
by accepting Mr Ks business introduced by Avacade? 
I accept that Liberty  did undertake some  due diligence on Avacade. It appears to have  taken 
the following  steps at various  points during the period  it accepted introductions from 
Avacade:
It agreed basic terms of business  with Avacade;
It obtained Companies House records relating to Avacade and its directors;
It obtained a copy of the training  material presented to Avacades  staff;
It obtained samples of the pension reports  Avacade produced;
It reviewed  correspondence from solicitors appointed to review Avacades  business 
in 2012 and 2013 (we have not been provided with full details/correspondence 
relating to these  reviews). 
Ref: DRN611557222It obtained Avacade compliance documentation;
It obtained internal  quality  assessments  conducted by Avacade.
Liberty says it complied with all its regulatory  duties.  So, it seems to me that it must have 
concluded that Avacade was a reputable  business  and not undertaking unauthorised 
activities from the documents  it reviewed.   
Ive carefully considered  all the documents and submissions Liberty  has made in relation to 
this point. Some of the documents  that Liberty  has provided are dated after Mr Ks 
application had already  been accepted. But Ive nonetheless taken them  into account. 
Having done so, I dont think the checks and due diligence  it carried  out on Avacade  met the 
expectations set out in the regulators publications and, crucially, it is my view that Liberty  
failed to draw the correct  conclusion after having reviewed the relevant documents. I think  it 
ought to have been apparent to Liberty  at the time of the introduction  of Mr Ks business, 
given the contents of what it knew  and had reviewed, that it should not have accepted  the 
introduction of business from Avacade. Thats because  I think that Liberty ought to have 
concluded that accepting Mr Ks introduction  from Avacade and facilitating the SIPP  was not 
in Mr Ks best interests  and would expose  him to an obvious risk of consumer detriment. Ill 
explain why below.
The anomalous nature of the business Avacade  was introducing  to Liberty
As Ive explained above, Liberty  should  have taken steps to understand the nature of 
Avacades business model. The 2009 report says that SIPP  operators should,  as an 
example of good practice, be:
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (ie the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended  by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs  can be identified.
and
able to identify  anomalous investments eg unusually small or large transactions or 
more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together  with the intermediary 
that introduced  the business.
Liberty hasnt disputed that it knew from the outset that Avacade  wasnt  regulated  and acted 
as an introducer to a few esoteric  unregulated investments. These  investments  were novel, 
had no track  record and were based  overseas and therefore subject to the laws in those 
countries (in the case of Mr K, Costa Rica).  This should have been identified as anomalous  
because such investments are high risk and are therefore  unlikely  to be suitable  for the vast 
majority of retail  investors (such investments are only likely to be suitable for a very small 
element of the investment  portfolio  of a sophisticated investor).  
So I think the anomalous nature of the business being introduced by Avacade  ought to have 
led Liberty to question the motivations  and competence of Avacade  to introduce  this kind of 
business and it should have been  concerned about  the high risk of consumer detriment if it 
accepted such  introductions from Avacade.
Liberty has given us details of the overall business  it accepted from Avacade  1,642 
customers were  introduced to it by Avacade in under two and a half years. Given  what Ive 
Ref: DRN611557223said above I think Liberty should  have  been  cautious  about accepting any business from 
Avacade. But, once  it began  to accept the business,  I think  the number of introductions 
should have very quickly  heightened its concern  about  the anomalous nature of Avacades  
business and the high risk of consumer detriment. 
Its not clear how many  applications  Liberty  received from Avacade  before it received Mr Ks. 
But, from looking at the total number of introductions  and the length of time over which they 
were received, I think introductions must have been arriving with Liberty  at a high rate each 
week. So, even if the total number of applications,  in itself, was not sufficient to give Liberty 
cause for concern at the point of Mr Ks transfer, the frequency  with which  they were arriving 
should have done so.
As set out above, Principle 3 of the Principles says that a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems. So, I think its fair and reasonable to say that Liberty  ought  to have identified that 
such a large number of introductions relating to a small range of unregulated and esoteric  
investments from one unregulated introducer  was unusual and, given the nature of the 
investments, involved a high risk of consumer detriment. 
Liberty should also have been  concerned  by the high proportion  of business from Avacade 
that involved transfers from occupational pension schemes. I think its reasonable to say that 
such schemes involve  a high proportion of final salary or defined  benefit schemes. Pension 
transfers from occupational schemes  have been an area of serious concern to financial  
services regulators since  the early  1990s.  As a result there was an industrywide review  of all 
pension transfer  advice and additional  qualifications  and processes  introduced  for pension  
transfers. As a SIPP operator, Id expect Liberty to have been  familiar with these concerns 
and been aware  of the higher risk of consumer detriment involved in these types of transfers.  
So, if Liberty was meeting  its regulatory obligations, it ought to have been  concerned  about 
the motivations  and competence of Avacade and have had adequate risk management 
controls in place to have  allowed it to conclude very quickly  that there was a high probability 
that much, if not all, of the business introduced  by  Avacade carried with it a high risk of 
significant consumer  detriment.  It failed to do this.
Execution only business
Execution only business in this context is where  a customer  is giving an instruction to make  
a pension transfer or switch without receiving advice  from a regulated advisor  on the risks 
and benefits of doing so. The 2009 report said that SIPP operators  should, as an example of 
good practice, be:
 
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility  for investment decisions and gathering  and 
analysing data regarding  the aggregate volume of such business.
I think the above can reasonably be referred to as the regulator  highlighting to SIPP  
operators that they should be alert to spotting  trends of this type of activity when considering 
accepting execution only business. But I also think its fair and reasonable to say that Liberty  
ought to have had this in mind when considering individual applications. The reason for 
caution in these circumstances is self-evident   it is generally sensible for people  to take 
regulated advice about important decisions involving  their pensions, particularly where the 
customer is moving funds from a traditional  pension scheme into high risk unregulated 
Ref: DRN611557224overseas investments - which are rarely suitable for the majority of consumers and carry a 
significant risk of consumer detriment.
Mr Ks application was made on an execution only basis. He also signed the investment 
instruction form saying that he took responsibility for the transfer to the SIPP  and the 
investment. He also signed documents saying that he recognised  Avacade  hadnt provided 
advice but provided  an information  only service. 
Ill make  further findings about these documents later in my decision.  But, it is sufficient for 
me to say here that Mr K was an execution only client  who had signed documents taking 
responsibility for his investment decisions. Bearing  that in mind and having regard to the 
2009 report which specifically highlighted this type of transaction,  I think Liberty  ought  to 
have been extremely  cautious about accepting Mr Ks application in these  circumstances 
and identified the clear risk of consumer detriment.
Liberty initially told us that all the 1,642 introductions from Avacade were execution  only 
and were not advised. I think  this volume of execution  only business from one introducer  
ought to have been very concerning. Liberty  ought  to have had serious  concerns about  why 
so many Avacade customers  were happy  to go ahead  and transfer their pensions  into 
esoteric investments  (all signing the associated disclaimers) without first receiving regulated  
advice and identified  that that there  was a real risk of consumer detriment  in facilitating these 
transactions.
In a similar complaint, Liberty  has said that a number of customers introduced by Avacade  
had a regulated  adviser involved in their case. I understand this to be a reference to Cherish 
Wealth Management. Liberty has not made  that claim in the context of Mr Ks complaint and 
there is no evidence  that this firm was involved.  However, even if I were to accept that a 
number of introductions  from Avacade did have  some involvement of a regulated adviser,  
that doesnt change my view that Liberty ought to have identified  that it was unusual and 
concerning that a very significant proportion of the introductions made by Avacade  (including 
that of Mr K) had no involvement  of a regulated adviser at all. 
And it should also have been concerning to Liberty  that the Avacade presentation material  
said that Cherish Wealth Management  was only involved because  pension companies 
respond better to information requests from them than non-regulated companies.  This is 
unusual and suggests that Cherish Wealth Management was working  closely with Avacade 
in order to give Avacades business  model a veneer of credibility to other pension 
businesses. Again, this is something that should have caused Liberty to question  the 
motivations and competence of Avacade, and in my view, should have been a red flag.
There was a significant  risk that Avacade  was giving advice without  authorisation
The 2009  report  says that SIPP operators should,  as an example of good practice, be:
Confirming both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have appropriate  
permissions to give the advice they are providing  to the firms  clients
Before I explore this further, I think I should set out some regulatory  background. Section  19 
of FSMA sets out the general prohibition:
Ref: DRN611557225(1)  No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United  Kingdom,  or purport to 
do so, unless he is
(a)  an authorised person;  or
(b)  an exempt person.
It is a criminal offence to breach the general prohibition. So firms carrying  on regulated 
activities must be authorised by the regulator (or must be exempt). 
Liberty hasnt disputed that it knew from the outset that Avacade  wasnt  authorised  (and 
wasnt exempt from authorisation). Its argument is that, based on its checks and the 
procedures it put in place, it had no reason to believe that Avacade  was giving advice and 
carrying on regulated  activities without authority to do so. 
However, I disagree. I think there was sufficient evidence available to Liberty  for it to have 
identified the risk that Avacades business model meant that it was giving unauthorised 
advice and so exposing customers to a serious  risk of detriment. Ill explain why in the 
subsections below.
The agreement between Avacade and Liberty
The agreement between Liberty and Avacade wasnt detailed  it consisted merely of a one 
page undertaking by Avacade  the wording of which I think ought  to have given Liberty 
cause for concern. It said:  
I hereby  confirm that we [Avacade] have  recommended the Liberty SIPP  to hold 
certain investments  that we act as an introducing agent for. We are not regulated to 
give financial  advice and have therefore  not given any with regards setting up the 
SIPP and placing the investment(s). We have only offered  the investment to suitable 
individuals who have  fully understood the SIPP and Investment  process.  
So although  the undertaking says Avacade was not regulated to give financial  advice  it says 
that it was recommending  the Liberty SIPP to hold certain investments that Avacade acted 
as introducing agent for. Synonyms  of the verb recommend include advocate, endorse, 
commend, approve, suggest and put forward. So, in my view, an ordinary reading of 
this clause must lead to the conclusion that the Liberty SIPP was being advocated  and put 
forward by Avacade as being suitable or appropriate for the customers  it was introducing  to 
Liberty. 
It therefore seems to me that it cant be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Liberty 
to have relied on this agreement  to ensure that Avacade was not providing financial advice 
when the terms  of the agreement are contradictory.  Liberty ought  to have identified this and 
should have been concerned about  Avacades  competence and motivations and concluded 
that there  was a significant risk of consumer detriment in accepting introductions from 
Avacade in these circumstances.  It should therefore not have done so. 
The final sentence of the undertaking should have given Liberty similar  cause for concern. It 
says Avacade  has only offered the investment to suitable individuals who have fully 
understood the SIPP and investment  process.  It is difficult to see how Avacade could 
ensure consumers had fully understood Libertys SIPP  and the investment process without 
having received  financial  advice. And, as Liberty was aware that Mr K had received no such 
advice from a regulated  advisor, the bare assertion in its agreement  with Avacade  that 
Ref: DRN611557226individuals would  have  fully understood what they were signing up for should have been an 
issue that Liberty should have identified and taken appropriate action on.  
I think the agreement  ought to have  at the very least highlighted to Liberty the risk that 
Avacade was conducting regulated activities - especially in light of the other  matters  that Ill 
set out below - even  though it wasnt regulated to do so. Avacade was either giving advice 
on the investments  it was promoting, or it wasnt being clear about  how it could introduce 
customers to Liberty without giving advice. Either way, this information should have given 
Liberty cause for concern.  Clearly,  accepting introductions from a business contravening the 
general prohibition  in its dealings with consumers carries with it a high risk of consumer 
detriment and in my view would not be treating customers fairly.
Liberty says that an unregulated introducer  is able to give information  about the use of a 
SIPP and can name a SIPP operator to hold an investment as it wasnt giving  any value 
judgements about  the SIPP itself. So, it doesnt  think it should have had any concerns about  
Avacade doing anything  wrong or carrying out regulated activities from the wording of the 
agreement. 
I disagree. I think the agreement indicates that Avacade would do more than just name 
Liberty as a SIPP operator to hold an investment and to give information about the use of a 
SIPP. The terms of the agreement state  that Avacade  had recommended  the Liberty SIPP 
to hold certain investments and to have  only offered  the investments  to suitable individuals  
who have fully understood the SIPP and Investment process.  So I think its reasonable to 
say that the wording suggests that Avacade was advising  individuals on the merits of the 
Liberty SIPP.
Advising on a SIPP in this manner is a regulated activity. Regulated activities are specified in 
Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 (the RAO). Regulated activities  
include:
advising on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant  investment (article 53 RAO) 
Rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified investment and a security  under 
the RAO.  Although a SIPP isnt specifically  mentioned in the RAO,  Liberty  should  have  been  
aware that a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. The FCAs glossary,  at the time of Mr Ks 
application, defines a SIPP as an arrangement  that forms all or part of a personal pension 
scheme. And Chapter  12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual offers  guidance to 
persons, such as Liberty, running personal pension schemes. The perimeter  guidance in 
place at the time confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the purpose of regulated 
activities: 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than 
an occupational  pension scheme(OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to 
provide benefits  for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
Ref: DRN611557227It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested  personal  pension schemes ('SIPPs')  as well as 
personal pensions  provided to consumers by product companies such  as insurers,  
unit trust managers or deposit takers (including free-standing voluntary contribution 
schemes).

Q15. I am a financial  intermediary dealing with pensions. Am I affected by the fact 
that rights  under  a personal  pension scheme are a specified investment?
Yes. The specified investment of rights  under a personal pension scheme is 
a security. This means that the following regulated activities  apply in relation to such  
rights:
dealing;
arranging;
managing investments;
safeguarding and administering investments;  and
advising on investments
So by recommending the Liberty SIPP in the manner  set out in the agreement,  I think  
Avacade was advising  on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment which is a 
security. As such, Liberty should have been  concerned that Avacade  was carrying  out a 
regulated activity in breach of the general prohibition.
But, even  if I accept  that the agreement alone  wasnt conclusive or clear  evidence that 
Avacade was undertaking regulated activities, there were other warning signs that Liberty  
should have taken note of. Ill explain these  below.
The training  material  
Liberty has told us that it would have reviewed the Avacade training material  before it 
accepted business from Avacade as part of its due diligence. I think this too should have 
given it cause for concern about  Avacade  giving unauthorised advice. 
The training  material  clearly had the objective  for Avacade staff to generate  pension  reports  
which are then converted to investments  in our product. It explains that if the consumer 
chooses a SIPP, Avacade  will then offer the consumer a choice from its investment 
portfolio.  It explains the investments  are specifically designed to meet  the clients  
requirements, aimed at hopefully producing  the income they want  from their pension,  at the 
age they want  to take it. It also says, Whats the biggest mistake you can make  with your 
pension? To do nothing at all!
So Liberty ought to have  been aware  that Avacades  intention was to obtain information 
about consumers  pension schemes  and that it was doing this with a view to getting those 
consumers to invest in the high risk unregulated investments Avacade promoted. 
I also think that it is clear from the training material that those employed to work in Avacades 
call centre  were expected  to work  in a sales capacity.  Large sections  of the training material  
explain how employees  should deal with objections from potential customers and provide 
Ref: DRN611557228advice on obtaining  an agreement to receive a pension report. And it is clear  the aim of 
issuing the report  was to then persuade consumers to invest in Avacades product  i.e. the 
unregulated investments it was promoting.
I think the language Ive highlighted  here echoes  the wording in the agreement  between 
Liberty and Avacade mentioned above. It strongly  suggests that Avacade would be advising 
consumers and making recommendations by providing information in an unbalanced  way 
and convincing consumers that their retirement aims could be met with the specifically 
designed  investments that they were marketing. And that the biggest mistake customers  
could make was to do nothing at all with their pensions.
I acknowledge that there  were a number of references in the training material  to Avacade  not 
offering advice. But this doesnt reconcile with Avacades business model. Liberty  ought  to 
have concluded  that it was unlikely  that Avacade could execute its business model of 
persuading customers to make pension switches and transfers without crossing  the line 
between providing  information and giving  advice (setting aside the question of whether 
Avacade had the skills and competence to accurately provide information). So reminders  in 
the training material  for staff not to give advice, in conjunction with the setting out of a 
business model that clearly envisaged investment recommendations, ought to have  led 
Liberty to be concerned that it was carrying on regulated activities  without authorisation to do 
so.
The pension reports 
Its not clear whether  Liberty reviewed  sample  reports before accepting business  from 
Avacade. It has provided sample reports,  but these  post-date  Mr Ks introduction. Given that 
the reports were at the core of Avacades  business model, I think  it would have been 
extremely important for Libertys  due diligence to encompass a review of these reports  
before accepting introductions from Avacade.
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary,  I think its reasonable to conclude  that if 
Liberty had asked for and received sample  reports from Avacade,  the reports  would  have 
been similar  to the ones that it received after Mr K's introduction. 
I accept that the reports dont make recommendations or discuss  the Liberty SIPP or 
proposed investments. And they dont go into some matters that would typically  be covered 
in suitability advice  from a regulated adviser  such as a customers  attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss. But when considered in conjunction with the agreement and training 
material it seems  to me that they are written with one aim in mind   to show that a 
consumers aims cannot be met by retaining  their existing arrangements  and they should 
instead make an investment in one of the products Avacade was promoting.  
So, for example,  in one of the sample pension reports provided to us by Liberty, the 
customers existing fund of £45,764  is shown as needing to grow to an improbable £684,151  
by retirement (in 13 years) to achieve the desired income of £30,000  per year in retirement. 
It shows the customers current  projected  income at retirement with their existing pensions at 
less than £9,000 per year. The other sample  reports provided to us similarly show  that the 
customers intended retirement income  will not be met with their existing pensions.
Ref: DRN611557229The report  concludes by saying:
8.0 YOUR  OPTIONS
Based upon the information  contained within this summary the following options are 
available to you in relation  to your existing pension plans:
1. Do nothing
2. Transfer your pension(s)  into a Personal  Pension
3. Transfer your pension(s)  to a Stakeholder Pension
4. Transfer your pension(s)  into a SIPP (Self Invested Personal  Pension)
Should you choose to transfer your pension(s) we can provide further details and 
assistance on how you can do this. If you require financial  advice on any of the 
above options we can suggest  an Independent  Financial Advisor who will assist you 
with this.
9.0 NEXT  STEPS
Upon receipt of this report your dedicated Avacade team member will contact you to 
discuss the contents of the summary report and find out how you would like to 
proceed.
So there is a clear expectation  of the consumer  making an investment decision largely on 
the basis of the report. Stakeholder and personal pension products are mentioned,  but Ive 
seen no evidence that Avacade had any relationship with providers of these products. And 
the investments  Avacade was promoting were  inaccessible through such  products. So I think  
it unlikely that they were  mentioned further in any discussions between Avacade and its 
customers. 
The training  presentation (referred to above) also says, once the report  has been provided,  
Avacade will walk the consumer through it and present them with a choice of options as to 
what they can do with their pensions. It says one of the options is a SIPP. No reference  is 
made to any other option (such as a switch to a stakeholder pension)  in this part of the 
training material. And it is not clear on what basis Avacade could walk the consumer 
through the report  and present them with a choice of options as to what  they can do with 
their pensions without  providing advice or making  a recommendation. 
Id expect Liberty, acting  in accordance  with its obligations to treat its customers  fairly,  to 
have been concerned about whether staff working in a call centre of an unregulated 
business had the expertise to walk a consumer through all their pension  options  it is 
widely accepted  that this is the sort of work that requires a high level of qualification.  
So, I think that Liberty again ought to have had real concerns about regulated  activities 
taking place and advice being given.
Other information provided by Liberty 
Liberty has provided some letters from solicitors  firms involving Avacade. The letters show 
that reviews of Avacades business were undertaken by Regulatory Legal in 2012  and twice 
by The Byrne Practice in 2013.To be clear,  these are letters  that are addressed to Avacade  
from the respective  solicitors.
Ref: DRN611557230Weve not been provided  with any documents about the outcome of the Regulatory Legal  
review despite asking for this. Neither have  we been  provided  with all the correspondence 
involving The Byrne  Practice. But, we have  been given a letter from August 2013 which says 
that a review was conducted in May 2013  which recommended  a number of actions:
Our primary concerns related to:-
Avacades own internal documentation in particular we were  concerned  that 
Avacades terms and conditions of business were inadequate and that a robust  
disclaimer should be applied  to Avacades  website.
Ensuring that the Client is clearly  informed that this is not an advised route and that 
Avacade do not provide investment advice but that such  advice is available should it 
be so required.
Ensuring that Avacades call scripts and business processes were consistent with 
this being a non-advised route.
The August  2013 letter suggests  that Avacade addressed  these concerns to the satisfaction 
of The Byrne Practice, but clearly  not before May 2013. This significantly post-dates  Mr Ks 
introduction of business and indicates  that the solicitors had identified  the sort of concerns I 
think Liberty ought to have identified at the outset - namely that there was a significant risk 
that Avacade was involved in providing unauthorised advice to consumers.
Ive also looked  at the Avacade  compliance manual that Liberty  has provided. Its undated 
but refers to Avacade recently  spending  £1000s on a solicitor  to review its compliance.  So 
I think it likely post-dates  either  the 2012 or 2013 reviews   and hence post-dates Mr Ks 
introduction. It includes the following:
Offering advice/opinion or showing  bias
Dont offer advice or infer that advice will be given.
Dont talk about what the client could do with their pension(s) moving forward.
Dont offer your opinion on what the client should  do.
This cant be reconciled with other details of Avacades business model. As mentioned, it 
said it would  walk consumers through the pension  report and present them with a choice of 
options. That is talking  about what they could do with their pensions  moving  forward. 
Of course,  I cant  be absolutely sure that Avacade was giving advice. But overall, looking at 
all of the above including the undertaking, the training  material, sample reports and its 
business model, I think Liberty should  have been  very concerned  about  the motivations of 
Avacade and the risk that Avacade was giving unauthorised  advice to customers and 
exposing them to a high risk of consumer  detriment. I think Liberty ought to have realised 
that it was difficult to see how Avacade could execute its business model and bring about so 
many business introductions if it wasnt offering  advice. And having  identified this, I think  it 
should have concluded that it wouldnt be fair, or in the best interests of its potential  
customers, to accept introductions from Avacade. 
Ref: DRN611557231I wish to make it clear  that even if Im wrong  and Avacade  was not giving advice without  
authorisation, Im satisfied  that accepting business from Avacade where  there was 
significant evidence  that it appeared that it might be doing so, means  it is fair and reasonable 
to say that Liberty failed to meet its regulatory obligations to treat Mr K fairly and act in his 
best interests.
Making arrangements
The material  that Liberty reviewed should  also have highlighted the probability that Avacade 
was conducting  the regulated activity of making arrangements  without  authorisation from the 
regulator. As Ive already established,  rights under a personal  pension scheme are a security 
and relevant investment. Under Article 25(1) RAO,  making arrangements for another  person 
to buy and sell these  types of investments is a regulated activity. And under Article 
25(2) RAO, making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the 
arrangements buying  and selling these types  of investments is also a regulated  activity.
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual perimeter  says the following about  Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at 
arrangements that would have the direct  effect that a particular transaction  is 
concluded (that is, arrangements that bring  it about). 
It then says the following about  Article  25(2): 
The activity of making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments  is concerned  
with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the entering into of 
transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad scope and typically applies 
in one of two scenarios. These  are where a person  provides  arrangements of some  kind:  
 
(1)to enable or assist  investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such  as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
(2) to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as 
multilateral trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing houses and service 
companies (for example,  persons who provide communication  facilities for the routing 
of orders or the negotiation of transactions)).
I think Avacades activities amounted  to the regulated activity of making arrangements for 
the SIPP under one or both of the Article 25 provisions.  It was in direct contact from a call 
centre with customers about what they hoped to achieve with their pension, at the very least  
gave information  about the Liberty SIPP and investments  (although as Ive said above I think  
it there was a significant risk that it was in fact giving advice), produced pension reports  
about existing  arrangements and was integrally involved in the completion and transmission 
by courier of application documents with sign  here stickers for many consumers (based on 
my review  of similar complaints) and with paperwork being pre-filled in and then sent on to 
Liberty. 
I note that Avacades  solicitors report (referred to above) appears to also highlight similar 
concerns. It says: 
Of particular concern  amongst the recommendations  made  was the level of 
assistance that Avacade provided  to its clients including inter alia the completion of 
forms on their behalf.
Ref: DRN611557232Liberty should have  readily identified that Avacade was making  these arrangements  without 
authorisation from the regulator and so that there was a clear  risk of consumer detriment in 
accepting introductions in these circumstances.   
Even if Avacade was not conducting the regulated activity of making arrangements,  I think 
its activities regarding the completion of forms and couriering of documents to customers 
strongly suggest that Avacade wanted  customers to act as quickly as possible and designed 
a sales process which  made  it difficult for consumers to seek  independent financial advice or 
change their mind about important decisions  for their pension. 
Again I think Liberty  should have identified from this practice that there  was potential for 
consumer detriment to Mr K in relation to the SIPP and investment it was being  asked to 
make on his behalf. 
Conclusions on the introduction by Avacade
Overall, having considered all of the above  matters, its my view that Mr Ks introduction  to 
Liberty via Avacade should have  given Liberty  cause for serious concern. I think  its 
important to make clear that its possible that individual points might not have been thought 
sufficiently serious on their own (although I think that some of them alone should  have  been  
alarming enough  to refuse business). But there were a number warning signs:
Liberty knew that Avacade was an unregulated business introducing  retail  customers 
in large numbers to its SIPP  for investment in a limited number of overseas  esoteric  
investments;
A large  proportion of the business  introduced  by Avacade involved transfers away 
from occupational  pension schemes  and there  was a high probability that much  if not 
all the business  introduced by Avacade would result in consumer detriment;
Liberty was being asked to proceed on the basis that a large  proportion  of these 
customers were  execution only and had signed  disclaimer  documents.
There was a high risk that Avacade was in fact conducting regulated activities without 
being authorised to do so;
Avacade had a sales process which gave customers limited opportunities to change 
their mind. 
Taken together, I think  these matters ought to have indicated a real and serious possibility of 
detriment to Mr K. I think Liberty should  have had adequate  systems  of control in place to 
allow it to recognise  and act on these warnings  by refusing to accept Mr Ks SIPP application  
from Avacade, irrespective of any documents or disclaimers  that Mr K had signed (Ill 
discuss this further  below).  By failing to do so, I dont  think  Liberty met its regulatory 
obligations to treat Mr K fairly and to act in his best interests.  And, taking into account all the 
circumstances, it is my conclusion that it is fair and reasonable to hold Liberty accountable to 
Mr K for these  failures. 
Ref: DRN611557233What due diligence  should Liberty have carried out on Ethical  Forestry?
As Ive explained above, Liberty  should  not have  accepted Mr Ks introduction  from 
Avacade. I think this complaint can be upheld on that basis alone. Nevertheless, given the 
submissions that Liberty has made about Ethical  Forestry, Ive also considered  the due 
diligence that Liberty  carried  out on the investment. 
Liberty says that it did carry  out due diligence on Ethical Forestry  and did so to the extent 
required at the time to ensure the investment was bona fide and did not give rise to a tax 
charge. Like the investigator, I am unclear what Liberty means by the term bona fide  but I 
think Libertys obligations certainly  went  beyond checking that that an investment existed 
and would not result in tax charges. 
The 2014  Dear CEO  letter  is informative (but not determinative) about  the kind of steps 
Liberty could and should have taken and the things it should have had regard to in 
assessing the Ethical Forestry investment. As a reminder to SIPP  operators, the letter said 
there were some key areas that SIPP operators should focus on and set out the following:
Our review assessed due diligence processes in these five key areas: 
correctly establishing  and understanding the nature  of an investment 
ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation 
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of 
assets is through a reputable arrangement,  and any contractual 
agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable) 
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of 
purchase and subsequently,  and 
ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous 
investors have received  income  if expected, or that any investment  
providers are credit worthy etc.) 
Please note that the due diligence necessary  for individual investments  may vary 
depending on the circumstances, and the five areas highlighted above are not 
exhaustive. 
The regulators publications are not prescriptive  and what should  be done is dependent  on 
the circumstances. And what emerges  from the Principles for Business, COBS 2.1.1R and 
the regulators publications is that Liberty needed to act in Mr Ks best interests and identify 
and prevent consumer  detriment. So, it needed to conduct sufficient due diligence  on 
Ethical Forestry and draw a justifiable conclusion with this objective in mind.
Ref: DRN611557234Did Liberty  act in Mr Ks best interests and identify and prevent consumer detriment 
in accepting the Ethical Forestry investment  into his SIPP?  
Ive reviewed all the documents that Liberty has sent to us to evidence  the checks  it carried  
out on the Ethical Forestry investment. Many of the documents Liberty has provided post-
date Mr Ks application and Libertys acceptance of the Ethical Forestry investment and so 
cant possibly have  formed part of the due diligence that Liberty  carried  out at the time of 
Mr Ks application. 
I note that Liberty  first accepted investments  in Ethical Forestry in 2011  but, for example, 
some of the title documents it has provided are from 2013  and so too is the due diligence 
report it has provided which was prepared by the third party Best International. So it is 
difficult for me to come to any firm conclusions about what due diligence  Liberty  had carried 
out before    accepting  the Ethical  Forestry  investment into Mr Ks SIPP and when Liberty  
obtained the relevant documents it has sent us which it says formed part of the checks it 
carried out on the investment.  
Nevertheless, I accept that it is likely that Liberty  did undertake some checks  on 
Ethical Forestry before accepting any investments via its SIPPs e.g. by undertaking 
Companies House  checks, looking at brochures,  reviewing reports. And even if Liberty  didnt 
review everything it now says it reviewed at the time of Mr Ks application, the documents  it 
has provided are still representative of what Liberty  might have discovered had it tried to 
obtain information at the time. 
So what  could/should Liberty have concluded  about Ethical Forestry from the checks it 
carried out and the available information?
Im satisfied that the documents  Liberty  says it reviewed  did allow it to broadly understand 
the nature  of the Ethical  Forestry  investment. But, like the investigator, I think some  of the 
information should have given Liberty real cause for concern about the risk of consumer 
detriment associated with the investment. 
The report  on Ethical Forestry provided  by the third party Enhance  Support  Solutions 
included the following points: 
There is no established market  for buying  and selling this investment. The investment 
can be assigned or sold to another investor  subject  to a buyer being found,  or the 
trees can be harvested and the proceeds taken. The harvest proceeds in the early  
years will likely be less due to the immaturity  of the trees.
The investment  should be viewed as illiquid.
The investment  is unregulated  so no investor  protection applies.
The report  by the third party ThreeSixty included the following points:
The investment  should be considered illiquid and clients should be advised to give as 
much notice  as possible  when  attempting to realise their investment.
This is, obviously, a high risk investment in that it is a single asset, in a foreign  
country, with currency and tax issues which must be considered.
Ref: DRN611557235It is clearly  not an investment for a first time investor but as a small part of a 
portfolio for a higher  risk investor this would seem to be an attractive proposition.
The Best International due diligence report from 2013 also highlighted some concerns about 
Ethical Forestry. This report significantly post-dates Libertys acceptance of the investment 
and appears to have  been  prepared for use by another SIPP  operator. It therefore  cant  
indicate the due diligence  that was done  by Liberty at the time of Mr Ks investment. So I 
think it has limited  value.  But I note that the Best International  report  says that the 
investment in Ethical Forestry via SIPPs should  be limited to 50% of the total SIPP value. 
Assuming the position would have  been the same in 2012  when it accepted  Mr Ks 
investment, Liberty  should have been concerned  about why customers, like Mr K, were 
proposing to invest more  than this proportion into Ethical Forestry. 
The Best International report also highlighted the need to implement safety mechanisms for 
SIPP operators in case of early investment redemptions and acknowledged that the lien 
structure put in place  to protect investors  suffered from some conflict of interests.  I think  its 
fair to say that these issues would have been apparent to Liberty had it conducted  adequate  
due diligence  before  accepting Ethical  Forestry into Mr Ks SIPP.
In order to correctly understand the nature of the investment, I think  its fair to say Liberty 
should also have  reviewed how Ethical Forestry was marketed to investors   particularly as 
Liberty was proceeding on the basis that a significant proportion  of these investments were 
being made on a non-advised basis by consumers. I note that Liberty has provided  a copy  of 
the Ethical Forestry marketing material it says it reviewed as part of its due diligence.  So, 
clearly Liberty thought  it was important to look at this material  at the time too. 
The marketing material for the Acacia  crops says it is a safe and secure  investment . The 
brochure for the Melina tree crops says the investment is secure, dependable and 
stable.
Liberty hasnt said whether or not it had regard to the Ethical Forestry website  but I think it 
certainly should have considered this as part of its due diligence. In September  2009  
statements on the website  read:  
If you are looking  for certified, high return  investments, low risk (my emphasis), 
ethical investment which is both profitable  and carbon friendly,  our Tropical  
Hardwood Investments  demand your serious  consideration
And in November 2010: 
Ethical Forestry's investments offer steady, stable increases with predictably high 
returns (my emphasis),  and as they are not correlated to the stock  market, they do 
not suffer from unpredictable peaks and troughs.
A typical investment  of £18,000 invested over 10 years is projected  to return  
£93,642. By comparison, a high-return account at 6% compound  interest per annum 
would yield just £32,235 over 10 years.
Ref: DRN611557236In my view, Liberty should have been  concerned  that neither the marketing material  nor the 
website reflected the risks highlighted by the due diligence reports  that Liberty says it 
reviewed. The reports said Ethical  Forestry was obviously  high risk and only suitable as a 
small part of a portfolio  of a high-risk investor   descriptions which  seem  appropriate. 
Ethical Forestry investment was certainly not low risk and secure on any reasonable 
analysis. Despite this, the investment appears to have been  marketed as such  to pension 
investors. 
Liberty should also have been  concerned  about  how the projected returns were  set out in the 
marketing material. The brochure for the Acacia tree crops  says the projected returns for an 
£18,000 investment  over 10 years would be £93,642 and for an accumulating investment 
over 22 years the projected return was £732,297 and would be ideal for SIPPs pensions 
and personal investment  portfolios.  These  were  said to be conservative  estimates . 
The Melina tree crops  brochure says the total projected  pay out for an £18,000 investment 
over 12 years is £104,189  and a 24 year accumulating investment was projected  to pay out 
£1,059,312. 
My view is that the marketing material contained  no evidential  basis for what  appear to be 
wholly unrealistic conservative returns for investors   almost 4,000%  growth for an 
accumulating investment  in Acacia tree crops  and over 5,000%  growth for an accumulating  
investment in Melina tree crops. Reference  is made in the Melina tree brochure to historic  
figures from the Costa Rica National Forestry  Office.  But no detail is provided for investors to 
verify these  figures.  And the brochures  dont say that past performance is no indicator of 
what might  happen  in the future or give alternative  projections in different market conditions  
or highlight  the risk factors  associated with unregulated investments such  as this. 
The Melina tree brochure that Ive reviewed is from May 2012  and claims that Ethical 
Forestry had a proven  track record for growing,  harvesting and delivering  investors  their 
projected returns. However,  theres no evidence that trees  had been harvested at that point 
or that any investors  had received the projected returns. So there appears to be no basis  for 
these claims. 
Conclusions on Ethical Forestry
Looking at all of the above,  Liberty ought to have known that there were significant warning 
signs and risks associated with the Ethical  Forestry investment, namely:
Liberty may have  broadly understood the nature of the Ethical  Forestry  investment, 
but it should have readily  identified that there was no investor protection associated  
with this investment.  The investment  was illiquid and there may be no market  for it. 
Ethical Forestry  which was being  specifically targeted for investment by pension  
investors - was speculative overseas based  investment with inherent high risks that 
made it very obviously unsuitable  for all but a small category of investors  and even 
then, only a small part of such  an investors  portfolio.  
Ethical Forestry had no proven track record for investors and so Liberty couldnt be 
certain that the investment  wasnt  impaired  or operated  as claimed. This was 
something highlighted by the regulator  in the 2014 Dear CEO letter as something  
SIPP operators should have been having  regard to when assessing investments.
Ref: DRN611557237The very high projected returns set out in the marketing material  should have been 
questioned. I dont expect Liberty  to have been able to say the investment  would  
have been successful. But such high projected returns without any apparent basis 
should have given Liberty cause  to question its credibility. 
The marketing material was, at best,  unclear as to the risks associated with the 
investment. So, Liberty should  have been  concerned that consumers may have been 
mislead or did not properly understand the investment they intended  to make.
Liberty knew in a significant number of cases, including  in Mr Ks case, that 
consumers were  not receiving regulated advice about the investment and it was 
probable that Avacade, an unregulated firm, was involved in advising and making  
arrangements for this high risk, unregulated investment.
Knowing all this, I have reached the opinion that in all the circumstances of this case,  it was 
not fair or reasonable for Liberty to have  accepted  the Ethical  Forestry investment  into 
Mr Ks SIPP.  Following  the due diligence Liberty says it conducted, it should have concluded 
that there  was a very clear and obvious risk of consumer detriment and declined to accept 
Ethical Forestry into Mr Ks SIPP. And, in failing  to do so Liberty breached  Principles 2, 3 
and 6 and COBS 2.1.1R which set out its key regulatory obligations  as a SIPP operator in 
the circumstances.  
I accept that Liberty  wasnt required to make an assessment of suitability. To be clear, my 
finding is not that Liberty should  have assessed Mr Ks individual  circumstances, his risk 
profile etc. and concluded that the Ethical Forestry investment was not suitable  for him. 
Rather I think that, based on what it knew from its due diligence, Liberty should reasonably 
have concluded  that Ethical Forestry  was highly unlikely to be suitable  for a significant part 
of the pension of any investor, and in particular it would not be appropriate for retail  
customers like Mr K who had not received advice from a regulated firm. 
Liberty has said that I should  clarify  what enquiries  I think it failed to make. I want to make it 
clear that, from the evidence and submissions Liberty has provided, I have not been 
persuaded that it properly complied with its regulatory obligations as a SIPP  operator. But 
my conclusion is not predicated on a failure by Liberty to make certain enquiries that would 
have revealed  more information about Ethical  Forestry.  The  information  Ive highlighted 
above was readily  available and formed part of the documents  that Liberty itself says it 
reviewed. So, I dont accept Libertys argument  that the standard  of due diligence  it is being 
held to would have been onerous or required  a forensic examination of Ethical Forestry 
that was properly the role of an adviser  rather than Liberty. Based on the due diligence Ive 
described above, I think Liberty  ought to have  been  able to conclude that Ethical Forestry 
would not be appropriate for inclusion in Mr Ks SIPP and Liberty  should  not have accepted it 
into the SIPP. And, in failing  to do so, it is fair and reasonable to hold Liberty accountable for 
Mr Ks loss in the circumstances.
Liberty has however  raised other arguments about wider  circumstances  which it says meant 
that it acted fairly. Ill explore these in detail below.
Ref: DRN611557238The documents  signed by Mr K
Liberty has referred to the documents that it says Mr K signed  (such as the application form, 
investment instruction form), saying it cannot be held responsible  for Mr Ks pension  transfer  
to the SIPP  and the investments. I accept  that the investment instruction form did say that:
I [Mr K] acknowledge that Ive been recommended to seek  professional advice from 
a suitably qualified  and authorised adviser, however Ive chosen  not to seek  advice 
for this transaction 
He also signed  the Avacade document Ive mentioned and quoted  above  saying  that 
Avacade had provided information only not advice. I havent seen evidence  that he signed a 
disclaimer declaration  specifically about  Avacade, although I accept  he may have done this 
too as many consumers appear to have done.
Ive considered this carefully but in the circumstances I dont think it is fair and reasonable 
for Liberty  to have  no responsibility simply because Mr K signed these documents. As Ive 
highlighted earlier, Libertys regulatory  obligations  meant that it needed  to act in Mr Ks best 
interests and needed  to consider whether accepting the introduction from Avacade  and the 
investment in Ethical Forestry was consistent with that duty. So, it needed to carry out 
appropriate due diligence  and reach justifiable  conclusions on what the appropriate action to 
take was in the circumstances. In my view,  it failed to do this. 
And Ill reiterate here that the 2009 report said that SIPP  operators  should, as an example of 
good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility  for investment decisions and gathering  and 
analysing data regarding  the aggregate volume of such business.
So, with this in mind, I think Liberty ought  to have  been cautious about accepting  Mr Ks 
application in spite of - and because of - the documents  he had signed. 
Also, asking customers to sign documents about  Avacade not giving advice I think shows 
that Liberty may have identified the risks of accepting business  from Avacade. And having 
identified that risk, it is my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do would be to refuse to 
accept business  from Avacade   not put in place  a process asking customers to sign a 
declaration in an attempt to resolve  itself of responsibility. I dont think the statements Mr K 
signed meant that Liberty, acting fairly, could ignore its duty to act in Mr Ks best interests 
given what it knew about Avacades business  model. Furthermore, putting aside the risk that 
Avacade was giving advice, Ive highlighted other reasons why Liberty ought to have been  
concerned about  introductions from Avacade and the investment in Ethical Forestry.  
Put simply, in light of Libertys  responsibilities  as a regulated firm I dont think  it was 
appropriate for it to accept  Mr Ks introduction by Avacade and the investment in 
Ethical Forestry. My remit is, of course,  to make a decision on what  I think  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that 
just asking Mr K to sign declarations was not an effective way for Liberty  to meet  its 
regulatory obligations to treat him fairly  and act in his best interests given the concerns  
Liberty ought to have  had about  his introduction  and the investment.  
Ref: DRN611557239FCA review  of Liberty  
Liberty says that the regulator conducted  a review of its business in 2011,  2012 and 2013 
and that it was told that it could continue  as normal accepting introductions from Avacade 
in 2012. It asserts  that this is evidence  that it was treating its customers fairly  and reasonably 
and complying with the relevant regulatory obligations. 
Ive carefully reviewed the evidence that Liberty  has provided on this point, but it doesnt 
change my view about  this complaint. Liberty has produced no significant  evidence about 
the reviews other than chains of emails showing reviews by the regulator being arranged  
and that in 2012 the due diligence it had carried out on Avacade  (amongst others) was 
requested by the regulator.  And the 2013  correspondence appears to be about a different 
investment. 
Liberty has provided an internal investment committee  meeting note dated 30 August 2012  
which it says shows that it was told by the regulator  that it could continue as normal to do 
business with investments  and introducers, which I assume is purported  to include Avacade. 
But I dont think this is persuasive evidence of the outcome of the 2012 review.  The emails  
that Liberty has provided about the provision of documents to the regulator are from 
September 2012. So the provision of documents post-dates the internal meeting notes and 
so the internal meeting  notes cant be an accurate  record of the final conclusions of the 
regulators review of the introductions from Avacade because it appears the review was 
ongoing. 
So whilst Liberty has provided evidence of arrangements for the regulator  to inspect 
documents relating to introductions from Avacade in 2012,  Ive not been provided with any 
substantive evidence of the outcome of the review  itself. I therefore dont think it is 
reasonable for me to draw any conclusions on this issue based  on the information available.
In any event, I must draw  my own conclusions on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.  Whilst the view of the regulator would be evidence that I would 
take into account, my decision  is independent of the view of the regulator.  And as a result of 
the evidence Ive seen and highlighted  above,  I dont think Liberty should have accepted  
Mr  Ks introduction from Avacade or the investment in Ethical Forestry. In doing  so, I dont 
think Liberty complied with its regulatory  obligations  and failed to treat Mr K fairly and take 
his best interests  into account.
Was Liberty obligated to carry  out Mr Ks instructions?
Liberty says that its dealings with Mr K were  on an execution-only basis. As such, it says it 
was required to follow COBS 11.2.19  R (1) which says: 
Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute  the 
order following the instruction. 
Liberty is of the view that this provision means  that it had to execute Mr Ks investment 
instructions. Although it isnt entirely clear, Ive taken Liberty's argument to extend to the 
acceptance of Mr Ks SIPP application  itself and that it had no choice but to accept it and 
then proceed to make the investment in Ethical  Forestry.
Ref: DRN611557240But I dont agree. COBS  11.2.19R  relates to the execution of an instruction to make an 
investment, but it would only be relevant  where  the investment  was one that Liberty had 
accepted. And Liberty would only have got to the point of executing  the specific  instruction, if 
it accepted the SIPP  application  acting fairly  and taking  into account all its regulatory  
obligations. If it hadnt accepted the SIPP application in the first place, the execution  of the 
investment instruction wouldnt have arisen.
It should be noted that this is consistent  with how the Courts have interpreted  COBS 
11.2.19R. In Berkeley Burke Sipp Administration  Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service 
Limited [2018] EWHC  2878 (Admin) Jacobs J said of a similar argument raised by 
Berkeley Burke:
In these  circumstances, there is no difficulty in concluding, as the Ombudsman 
concluded, that the Principles were applicable to the question  of whether BBSAL 
should accept  the investment in the first place, and that COBS  11.2.19R  applied  to 
the execution  of the transaction  once that decision was made.  There  is, therefore, no 
conflict between the application of the Principles, and COBS  11.2.19R,  to the issue 
which the Ombudsman had to consider.
Im satisfied that if Liberty had acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr K by 
carrying out adequate due diligence  and taking appropriate action on analysis of that due 
diligence, it wouldnt have  accepted his SIPP application. I therefore dont accept Libertys  
submission that it had no choice but to make the investment in Ethical Forestry because  of 
COBS 11.2.19R, or that the rules allowed it to simply give risk warnings and go ahead. 
Conclusions
My conclusion is that for the reasons set out above,  Liberty didnt act fairly and comply  with 
its regulatory duties  in its dealings with Mr K. Specifically, Liberty didnt act in accordance  
with its responsibilities as set out in the Principles for Businesses at 2, 3 and 6 and COBS 
2.1.1R. Having said that, I want to stress again  that Im required to make  a decision on 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. And this is wider that the 
rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA. 
So with this in mind, it is my view that although  Liberty did undertake  some  due diligence on 
both Avacade  and the Ethical  Forestry  investment, it failed to reach a justifiable conclusion  
having done so. And, in the circumstances, I believe Liberty  ought  reasonably  to have  
identified that the introduction from Avacade and investment in Ethical Forestry posed an 
obvious risk of consumer  detriment. It therefore  shouldnt have accepted  Mr Ks application 
to open a SIPP to facilitate the investment. And my conclusion  is that in all the 
circumstances of this case,  Liberty didnt act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ks 
instructions.
Did Libertys failures cause Mr Ks loss?
As Ive made clear, it is my view that Liberty didnt comply with its regulatory obligations to 
treat Mr K fairly and take account of his best interests. My conclusion  is that had Liberty 
acted in accordance  with its regulatory  obligations  and good industry practice at the relevant 
time, it should have  refused to accept  Mr Ks introduction from Avacade and the investment 
in Ethical Forestry. If it had done  so, (like our investigator) I think  there  are three possibilities:
Ref: DRN611557241Mr K would have decided to do nothing, and left his pension  where  it was. In that 
case, he wouldnt have suffered  loss as a result  of making the investment  in 
Ethical Forestry (outcome 1).
Mr K would have asked Avacade to go ahead  anyway, and tried to place the 
business through a different SIPP operator (outcome 2).
Mr K would have gone to a regulated adviser and tried to arrange  the investment  
through a third party (outcome 3).
If Liberty had told Mr K that its concerns meant  it was not prepared  to deal with Avacade at 
all, I think that would have led Mr K to question whether it was in his best interests for him to 
move his pension  as a result of his contact with Avacade.  And,  as Liberty  was the regulated 
entity, I think hed have taken its refusal  to deal with Avacade  as reason for him to not to 
have any further  dealings with it either.  So, if Liberty had acted in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations and not accepted  Mr Ks business from Avacade,  Im satisfied that 
Mr K would also have chosen  to terminate his own relationship with Avacade.  
So, Im satisfied if Liberty had treated Mr K fairly  and reasonably,  its much  more likely than 
not that he would have  decided not to go ahead  with the investment and would not have 
suffered the loss he did (outcome 1).
I acknowledge that its possible  that Avacade would have tried to find another  SIPP operator 
that would  accept Mr Ks application  outcome 2. As Ive said above, I think that is less 
likely than outcome 1. In any event,  its not fair and reasonable to say that Liberty should not 
be responsible  for its failures because another SIPP operator  would have  made the same 
mistakes. I think its fair to instead assume  that another SIPP  provider wouldnt have 
processed the transaction if it had acted  in accordance with its own regulatory 
responsibilities and good industry practice. Again  therefore, its likely that Mr K would have 
remained invested in his existing pension and wouldnt have suffered the loss he did.
I think its unlikely that Mr K would have  sought help from a third party  other than Avacade  to 
make the investment  outcome 3.  But if he had, I think  its likely  that a suitably qualified 
third party would have  advised against the investment in Ethical Forestry and Mr K would 
have remained invested in his existing pension and wouldnt have suffered the loss he did. 
The involvement of other  parties
I accept that Liberty  is not responsible for initiating the course  of action that has led to Mr Ks 
loss. It was Avacade, not Liberty,  who originally contacted Mr K to start this process. I note 
also that the Ethical Forestry investment is currently subject to a criminal investigation by the 
SFO. On this basis, a court might not require Liberty to compensate Mr K  notwithstanding 
its failings. 
But FSMA requires me to award  fair compensation and Im therefore not limited  to the 
position a court might take.  And my remit it is to make a decision based on what I think  is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. I consider that Liberty  failed to put a 
stop to the transactions  when it should  have done  so, taking into account  its regulatory 
obligations. If Liberty had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and had treated  
Mr K fairly, then the transfer  to the SIPP and the associated investment would not have gone 
ahead. 
Ref: DRN611557242So, I conclude that it would be fair and reasonable to make  an award, given the specific  
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint. This is notwithstanding arguments about a break  in the 
chain  of causation and the remoteness of the loss from Libertys failures. As a regulated 
firm Liberty was in a position  to protect Mr K from this level of consumer detriment. Had it not 
been for Libertys failure  to meet  its obligations,  I think it unlikely that Mr K would have 
transferred his pension  to a SIPP and invested  in Ethical Forestry.  As a result, Im satisfied 
that its fair and reasonable to hold Liberty responsible for the whole of the loss suffered by 
Mr K.
Im not asking Liberty to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
Im satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent  of the loss in question. That other  
parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which  Im not able to 
determine. However, that fact should  not impact on Mr Ks right to compensation from 
Liberty for the full amount of his loss.
If Liberty believes  other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it is free to 
pursue those other parties. And if Mr K is compensated in full now, Liberty (rather than Mr K) 
should benefit from any future payments  that might be made in relation  to the investments or 
compensation Mr K receives from the civil proceedings brought  by the FCA against 
Avacade. So compensation payable to Mr K should be contingent on the assignment  by him 
to Liberty of any rights of action he may have against other parties in relation to his transfer 
to the SIPP  and the investments. It should  also be contingent on Mr K undertaking to give to 
Liberty any future payment he might receive  in relation to the investments. 
 
What should Liberty  do?
My aim is to return Mr K to the position he would now be in but for what  I consider to be 
Libertys failure to treat Mr K fairly  when  it received  Mr Ks SIPP application  from Avacade.   
For the reasons  Ive explained above, if Liberty had done everything it should  have,  I dont 
think Mr K would have made  the investment in Ethical Forestry and I think  he would have left 
his pension as it was. 
So, Liberty should calculate fair compensation by comparing  the position he would be in, if 
he had not transferred. In summary, Liberty  should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr K has suffered as a result  of making the transfer. 
2.Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ks share in any investments  that cannot  currently  
be redeemed.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ks SIPP so that the transfer value  is increased  to equal the 
loss calculated in (1). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief  
and the effect  of charges. 
4.Pay Mr K the equivalent of five years worth of SIPP fees.
5.Pay Mr K interest as set out below.
6.Pay Mr K £500 for trouble and upset.  
Lastly, in order  to be fair to Liberty, as mentioned, it should have the option of payment of 
this redress being  contingent upon Mr K assigning any claim he may have  against  Avacade,  
or others in respect of this loss to Liberty  but only in so far as Mr K is fully compensated 
here. 
Ref: DRN611557243I have explained  how Liberty should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:
1.Calculate the loss Mr K has suffered as a result  of making the transfer
To compensate Mr D fairly in respect  of the B&CE  pension  switch, Liberty must 
obtain the cash value of the scheme on the date of calculation if it hadnt been  
transferred to the Liberty SIPP. There were two funds  in the scheme   a money 
purchase scheme and a lump sum benefit.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a cash valuation for the money  purchase  part 
of the scheme  then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index (prior 
to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index)  should  
be used as Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return  that couldve 
been achieved  if Mr Ks pension had remained invested in his previous pension.
As mentioned, a relatively  modest  amount (around £995) transferred from the B&CE  
pension was formed of a lump sum benefit that is calculated by reference  to benefit 
rates at retirement and weeks worked  by Mr K. It may be difficult  to calculate  the 
exact cash value  of this benefit for the purposes  of paying compensation now.  So I 
think its fair and reasonable for Liberty  to calculate the cash value of the benefit  
using the current  benefit rate offered by the scheme. 
Liberty should then compare  the cash value of Mr Ks B&CE pension (or the fair 
value calculated by the benchmark) and the lump  sum benefit with the actual value of 
Mr Ks SIPP.
The calculation should take account of the value  of any cash  held in the SIPP  
currently, and the amount  Mr K took as tax free cash or drawdown. Its also to be 
assumed that any other contributions or withdrawals  that have been  made  would still 
have occurred and on the same dates. 
Any existing value  of the investment should be covered  by the next step.  
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be 
redeemed.
It is likely  that the SIPP  only exists because of the investment in Ethical Forestry made in 
2012. In order  for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the 
investment needs  to be removed from the SIPP.
To do this Liberty should reach an amount  it is willing to accept as a commercial value for 
Ethical Forestry, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant 
investments.
If Liberty is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment the value of it should be assumed 
to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.
Ref: DRN611557244Provided Mr K is compensated in full, Liberty  may ask Mr K to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment  the SIPP may receive  from the investment 
and any compensation he receives  from the FCAs civil proceedings against  Avacade.  That 
undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount Mr K may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the 
SIPP. Liberty will need to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ks SIPP so that the transfer value  is increased  to equal the 
loss calculated in (1). 
I am not certain whether,  currently, Mr K can pay the redress  into a pension  plan.  If he can, it 
means that the compensation is able to be paid into a pension in the time until Mr K wishes 
to take his pension benefits and he should be able to contribute  to pension  arrangements 
and obtain tax relief. If this is the case,  the compensation  should  be reduced to notionally 
allow for the income tax relief Mr K could claim.  The notional allowance  should be calculated 
using Mr Ks marginal rate of tax. For example, if Mr K is a basic  rate taxpayer, the total 
amount should  be reduced by 20%.
On the other hand, Mr K may not currently be able to pay the redress  into a pension plan. 
But had it been  possible to pay the compensation into the plan,  it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount to be paid to Mr K should be reduced  to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ks marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, 
if Mr K is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional  allowance would equate 
to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic  rate of tax. However, if Mr K 
would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum,  the notional allowance should  be applied  
to 75% of the total amount.
4.SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed  from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, Liberty  should  pay Mr K an amount  equivalent  to five years of 
future fees,  to ensure  its unlikely  Mr K will have  to pay further fees for holding the SIPP.  Five 
years should  allow  enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt  with, and for 
them to be removed from the SIPP. As an alternative  to this, Liberty can agree  to waive  any 
future fees which might be payable  by Mr Ks SIPP.  
5.interest
Pay Mr K interest of 8% simple a year on the above  compensation from the date of the 
decision to the date compensation is paid  if compensation isnt paid within  
28 days of Liberty being notified of acceptance.
6.trouble and upset
I also think Mr K has been caused upset  as a result of Libertys actions. The sudden  loss of 
nearly all his pension  fund would have come  as a shock to him, and has clearly had a 
significant impact. In the circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Liberty to 
pay Mr K £500 compensation for this. 
Ref: DRN611557245My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint. Liberty Sipp Limited should calculate  and pay 
compensation to Mr K as described  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6115572