K820x#14Complaint
Miss Y complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC recorded a CIFAS marker against  her name. 
She says this meant she couldnt open a bank account. CIFAS is one of the UKs fraud alert 
services.
Background
On 16 January 2017, Miss Ys account  was credited with £29,160. Within a few minutes, the 
money was withdrawn. There  were four online banking transfers to third party payees; 
£2,000 was withdrawn at an assisted service device (ASD) in a branch; and £500 from an 
ATM.
Barclays received notice from the third party bank that the money had been taken 
fraudulently from its customers account.
Miss Y said she knew nothing about the transactions.  She said shed lost her bank card but 
hadnt told the bank because she hoped  it would turn up. But she couldnt explain how a 
third party could have  obtained her card, her PIN and her security details for online  banking.  
Barclays wasnt satisfied that Miss Y knew nothing about this so it closed  her accounts and 
recorded a CIFAS marker against  her.
Miss Y had difficulty trying to open  an account elsewhere, so she complained to Barclays but 
it wouldnt remove the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the 
CIFAS marker  had been filed correctly because Miss Y couldnt explain how her details had 
been compromised. He was also concerned that, based on Miss Ys version  of events, a 
third party had her card for several  weeks before the fraudulent  funds were received  and that 
Miss Y had been  able to make  ATM withdrawals with the card after she said it had been  lost.
Miss Y didnt agree. She said the transactions must have been  carried out by someone  she 
knows; the card must have been back in her possession  when  she made the ATM 
withdrawals of her benefits; and that, because she suffers from poor mental  health,  shes not 
clear what  could have  happened.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The money credited  to Miss Ys account was a fraudulent transaction  the money had been  
debited from a third partys account  without their authority or consent. But before placing the 
CIFAS marker  against  Miss Ys name,  Barclays needed to have a reasonable belief that 
criminal charges could  be brought against  Miss Y as a result of the activity. A suspicion or 
concern isnt enough. So I need to decide  if theres  enough evidence  to show that Miss Y 
knew more about  this than shes told us. 
I think there was enough evidence  to show that Miss Y knew  about the fraud. Let me explain  
why.
Ref: DRN60209082Miss Y said she lost her bank card. She didnt report it missing  because she thought  it would 
probably turn up. She told the bank shes always losing things, so I accept  this is plausible. 
But there were several ATM cash withdrawals using the card after 16 January  2017 which  
Miss Y has not disputed. So it seems she did have  the card back  in her possession by 
19 January. But she didnt tell the bank about this when it phoned her to discuss the 
fraudulent transactions; she simply told it shed lost her card,  not that shed found it again, or 
how and where  she found it.
The majority of the fraudulent credit  - £26,580  - was transferred to third parties through  four 
online banking transfers. The payees had been set up on Miss Ys online banking account a 
couple of weeks  before the fraudulent credit was received  and some  small payments had 
been made to each  of them. Barclays told us these online  banking  sessions were from the 
same IP address as for genuine transactions carried out by Miss Y. And that the card was 
needed to complete these transactions. This means,  if Miss Y knew nothing about  this, an 
unknown third party was able to access her online banking and had Miss Ys card, knowing 
that she wouldnt report it missing for at least two weeks when the fraudulent  credit  was 
received. This seems very unlikely.  
Whilst I accept  its possible Miss Y may have lost her card for a short  period, theres no 
reasonable explanation  as to how the same individual was able to find out her PIN (to make  
the ATM withdrawal) and her online banking log on details (to make the online transfers).  
And Miss Y agrees  that she wouldnt have given somebody all of these  details.
As noted by our investigator,  CIFASs  standards  for recording a marker are very high. But 
I think there is enough information  here for a marker  to be placed against Miss Y. A financial 
crime was committed  money was paid into her account from a third party account without 
their authority. The money was withdrawn almost  immediately using Miss Ys online banking 
log in and her card and PIN. Theres no evidence that this information had been 
compromised. 
Taking all of this together, this all points to Miss Y knowing more about the transactions than 
shes told us. And I think Barclays does have enough evidence to report  this matter  to the 
police.
In reaching this decision I have taken into account  that Miss Y has told us she suffers  from 
mental health issues. Shes not told us how this impacts on her, but I can see from one of 
her calls with the bank that it may make  her forgetful. But, even taking  this into 
consideration, it doesnt make a difference to my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6020908