K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs M took out in 1997.  It was 
sold to her in store.  Its been  agreed  in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should  take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in June 2019  I have 
attached a copy of it to this decision. In it I explained I was thinking  of coming to a different 
outcome to that of our adjudicator and I gave  my reasons why. But I asked everyone to 
come back  to me with any further comments before I issued  my final decision.
Both parties  confirmed they had received the provisional decision, but no one had anything  
more to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case. 
Having done this, and without any new information  to consider, my decision remains  the 
same for the same reasons. Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Ref: DRN65178662Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65178663complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs M took out in 1997. It was sold to 
her in store.  Its been agreed  in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. 
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
FICL and Mrs M agree  the policy was sold in store.  During that interaction FICL should  have made 
sure Mrs M was aware the policy was optional. Mrs M says the PPI was added  to her account without 
her knowledge. 
Its not possible  for me to know exactly what was said at the time this policy was taken  out. So I have 
based my decision on the evidence  thats available alongside what Mrs M has told us. Looking  at a 
copy of Mrs Ms application form Ive been given, I can see it asks applicants to tick a box if they want 
the PPI. 
On the form, the box has been selected and Mrs M has signed the application. And Mrs M would have 
the opportunity to review  and query anything on the application she wasnt  sure about  before she 
signed it. So I think its most  likely  FICL  made Mrs M aware she had a choice  about buying the policy 
and she chose  to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this. 
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. Mrs 
M says she had a medical condition  at the time of sale and our adjudicator  thought  this condition was 
something that wouldve made it difficult for Mrs M to make a claim  on the policy, so they upheld her 
complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about  the information Mrs M has told us about her condition. Having done this, I 
dont have enough evidence that Mrs M would  have  thought this would  be the main reasons she 
might have needed to claim on the policy  in the future. And the policy  wouldve  covered her for other 
things. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the other exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs M says she had three months full sick pay benefits from her employer. The PPI wouldve  paid out 
alongside her employee benefits  and for a longer period. It also wouldve  covered her if she became  
unemployed. And it doesnt look like Mrs M had any other means  she couldve relied on to make her 
repayments  such as savings.  So I think it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong.  
Ref: DRN65178664Overall, I dont think Mrs M has lost out by anything FICL might have  done wrong. 
Ref: DRN6517866