K822xcomplaint
Miss B is unhappy that Santander  UK Plc wont refund payments from her 123 student 
account that she says she didnt authorise.  Miss B says she was tricked by fraudsters into 
handing over information  which they then used to transfer funds  out of her account.
background 
Miss B held a 123 student current account with Santander. In March 2017 Miss B was the 
victim of a social engineering scam  which involved vishing. This is where a fraudster calls a 
consumer and uses a range of persuasive  techniques to manipulate them into sharing 
personal information. Here the fraudster pretended to be from Miss Bs bank, Santander, 
and convinced her to take certain  steps and share  information in order to gain access  to her 
bank account  and steal money  from Miss B.
what happened?
Miss B says that, on 1 March 2017,  she received a call from a fraudster pretending to be 
from Santander. She was told there was suspected fraudulent activity on her account from 
people claiming  to be from HMRC. Its not in dispute that what  happened  was an act of 
fraud. So I have used the term fraudster throughout to refer to the third party involved.
Miss B thinks the fraudster knew she had been  in contact  with HMRC regarding a genuine  
tax rebate and that she may have fallen victim to a phishing  email.  As the day before she 
received the call from the fraudster she recalls divulging her card details  on an email  
pertaining to be from HMRC. Miss B has said that, on realising  it may be have been 
fraudulent, she has since  deleted the email  as she was concerned  about  viruses.
Miss B thought the call from the fraudster was plausible, as she had been dealing with 
HMRC and the fraudster  knew a lot of personal information about  her. Shes told us she was 
led to believe she was being defrauded and that she had to act quickly.
Miss B was asked to provide three  numbers from her five digit online security code, which  
she provided. She says the fraudster told her that she would receive a text message and 
that shed need to read the code so that she could block  the suspect payments from going  
out. Miss B received  the text which said it was from Santander, which said use this code to 
pay the £800.
Miss B said she asked the fraudster why they wanted the code if it was to pay the £800   
she says she was told she had to give it to the fraudster  to enable him to block the 
suspicious payments. 
Miss B said she received another text with a different code  but she only recalls giving one 
code out to the caller. Shes  said she became suspicious when the caller asked her to give 
him the two remaining  numbers  from her security code  at this point she told the caller that 
she was going  to call Santander.
These codes were One Time  Passcodes (OTPs) from Santander.  Miss B has said that she 
deleted the texts. Santander  has told us the text messages actually read:
OTP (code) is to SETUP  A NEW  PAYEE on account ending XXXX. Never share this code 
with anybody. Please call us immediately if you did not request this and;
Ref: DRN63113372OTP (code) is to make  a new payment for (Amount) to account ending  XXXX. Never share 
this code with anyone.  Call immediately if you did not request this
Miss B gave the code to the fraudster and, shortly  afterwards,  £800 was transferred out of 
her account  to a new payee that the fraudster had set up.
Miss B ended the call with the fraudster and called the genuine Santander  number. 
Santander confirmed  to Miss B that it wasnt  them shed been speaking to and that it had 
been trying  to contact  her while  she had been  on the phone.  
Miss B already had online banking set up on her account and the fraudsters got access to 
this. Information from Santander  about  the activity on Miss Bs online account  shows  that the 
forgotten customer ID option was selected.  Santander has said this can be requested  if 
forgotten, just by providing personal  information. Santander said the partial details of the 
security number that Miss B gave the fraudster enabled them to then activate her online 
banking.
Santander has said that three OTPs were generated and a text message was sent for each 
one, all three were validated  its said that three  new payees  were set up and a payment of 
£800 was made to each of these new payees.  The first transaction for £800 was processed, 
but Santander has said it was successful in preventing the other  two transactions for £800 
going through.
Santander has said it attempted to recover the successful transaction shortly  after speaking 
to Miss B. But on contacting the beneficiary bank (Barclays) it wasnt  possible for it to be 
recovered. So overall, Miss B suffered a loss of £800 from her Santander account. 
Santander says as there were three payments  set up it triggered its Fraud  Detection system 
and Miss B would have  received an automated call. Miss B has said that she received  a 
voice message from Santander  saying she was potentially  being defrauded, which  she 
picked up after shed  finished the call with the fraudster. Miss B said this genuine voice 
message and the genuine fraud call from Santander were very similar  to the fraud  call, which  
she says indicates  what an easy mistake this was to make. 
Santander has said that its Fraud Detection  System  put a block  on Miss Bs account which 
caused the second and third transactions to pend.  When Miss B contacted Santander  and 
confirmed the transactions to be fraudulent, the agent she spoke to was able to cancel them.
Below are some  of the key timings  of the online banking activities during the scam, 
according to Santanders online banking records:
date time online activity amounttransaction outcome
1/3/201710:25:17 Fraudsters accessed Miss Bs online 
banking via the forgotten password 
route
1/3/2017 10:28;10 OTP sent via SMS
1/3/2017 10:28:43 first new payee set up
1/3/2017 10:28:43 OTP validated
Ref: DRN631133731/3/2017 10:28:47 payment made to first new payee £800.00 successful
1/3/2017 10:31:38 second OTP sent
1/3/2017 10:32:12 second OTP validated
1/3/2017 10:32:12 second new payee set up
1/3/2017 10:32:15 payment made to second new payee £800.00 blocked
1/3/2017 10:32:47 third OTP sent
1/3/2017 10:33:12 third new payee set up 
1/3/2017 10:33:12 third OTP validated
1/3/2017 10:33:14 payment made to third new payee £800.00 blocked
Miss B reported the scam at 10:48 on 1 March 2017. This was around 15 minutes  after the 
final transaction was attempted and around 20 minutes after the first transaction  had been 
sent.
The beneficiary bank  has said the money for the first transaction  of £800 left the receiving 
account at 10:39,  which  was around 10 minutes after it had been sent by Santander. 
Miss B acknowledged that shed played a part in the fraud through  divulging certain 
information. But shes said this is the first time that such a highly  plausible fraud has been 
attempted on her and she was panicked into doing  what  she thought was the right thing to 
do.
Miss B has also questioned why the transaction wasnt stopped immediately when 
Santander suspected it to be fraudulent. Shes said even if this wasnt possible it should 
have been possible  for the receiving bank to have blocked it. In summary she concludes  the 
money could have been retrieved if action had been  taken  quickly enough. 
Santander didnt  refund Miss B. It was sorry Miss B had been the victim of a scam but it said 
it hadnt upheld  Miss Bs complaint on the basis that shed divulged  sufficient  information  for 
the scammer  to gain access  to her online banking, set up 3 bill payments and make  
transfers from the account.  It says the fraudster  was only able to gain access to the funds 
because of their manipulation.
Santander said it has system security in place which was bypassed  through  manipulation. It 
added that it had exhausted all avenues in pursuing the funds.
It says it sent important security messages to Miss B via her internet  banking  facility in 
November 2016  and January 2017.  It says the emails provided information on how 
customers are being scammed and how to keep details secure by not divulging information  
such as OTPs.  Overall  Santander didnt think it could be held liable for Miss Bs loss.
As Miss B wasnt  happy with Santanders final response she brought her complaint to our 
service and its been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN63113374my provisional decision
On 28 January 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  on Miss Bs complaint. After  considering  
all the evidence and arguments presented by both sides, I was minded to conclude that:
Miss B did not authorise the transactions in question;
Miss B had not acted with gross  negligence;  
Santander should fairly and reasonably refund  the money  obtained from Miss B by 
the fraudster, plus interest at the rate she would have received had the money 
remained in Miss Bs account;  and
Santander should pay Miss B £200 for the trouble and upset she experienced.
Miss B responded to say she accepted  the findings set out in my provisional decision.
Santander also responded  to say it had nothing further to add and accepted the findings 
reached in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accept  my provisional  
findings I see no reason  to depart  from these.
For clarity Ive set out the relevant considerations here and an extract  of the findings from my 
provisional decision, as well as my directions  to Santander to put the matter  right:
relevant considerations
Santander as an FCA regulated firm provided a current deposit account. As such  the FCAs 
overarching Principles for Businesses  apply including the requirement to pay due regard to a 
customers interests and treat them fairly  (Principle 6). 
The transfer from Miss Bs account  was made in March 2017.  So of particular  relevance  to 
my decision  about what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009  (PSR 2009). I think these sections of PSR 2009 are of 
particular relevance  here:
Consent and withdrawal  of consent
55.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Ref: DRN63113375Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must 
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the Terms and Conditions 
governing its issue  and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use 
of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe.
Evidence on authentication  and execution  of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some  other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly  executed  payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a) refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised  payment  transactions
62.(1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment 
instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
Ref: DRN63113376(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
consent
Regulation 55 says that the payer  must give consent, and it must be given in the form, and 
in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and its payment  service 
provider. The payment  services directive  itself (which PSR 2009  implements)  says In the 
absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered to be unauthorised. 
But neither  PSR 2009 nor the FCAs 2013  guidance  on PSR 2009  provide a definition of 
consent. 
I therefore think it is fair, when considering whether consent was given, to apply the common 
definition of consent, which is to give permission for something to happen.
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in PSR 2009 nor in the first Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances.  The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated  according to national  law. However, 
while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should  
mean more  than mere  negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction  
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable by third 
parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret gross negligence to be a higher  standard than the standard of negligence 
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of 
carelessness.
Although neither of these is directly relevant  to this complaint, they are of value  as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because they 
inform the meaning  of a concept  that has been in place for some  time (in the Banking Code). 
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The Ardent) [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:  
If the matter is viewed  according to purely English principles of construction,   Gross 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence  as a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of embracing 
not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation  of the risks involved, but also serious 
disregard of or indifference to an obvious  risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. But as I have 
described above, gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  
Ref: DRN63113377ordinary negligence. So I have to consider whether what  Miss B did fell so far below the 
standard expected of a reasonable person that it would  be fair to say she failed with gross 
negligence to keep  her personalised security details  safe or to comply with the Terms and 
Conditions of the account. 
the Terms & Conditions of Miss Bs account 
Santander has referred to its Terms  and Conditions when considering Miss Bs actions.
The following  are extracts from the general  Terms and Conditions  applicable  to Miss Bs 
account at the time. These Terms and Conditions broadly  reflect the provisions contained  in 
the PSRs 2009.
7. 7.1 Notification of Unauthorised or Incorrect Payments If you believe  that a payment 
on your account  was not authorised  by you or was made incorrectly, you must notify 
us as soon as possible either  at a branch or by telephoning us.
7.2 your remedies for unauthorised payments a) if you notify us that a payment was 
not authorised  by you, we will immediately refund your account with the amount of 
the unauthorised  payment taken.. b) before we refund your account, we are 
entitled to carry  out an investigation if there  are reasonable  grounds for us to suspect 
that you have  acted fraudulently, deliberately or have been  grossly negligent. We will 
conduct our investigation as quickly  as possible and may ask you to reasonably 
assist in that investigation.
9. you must keep your Personal Security Details secure and follow  the safeguards  in 
this document  and on santander.co.uk  to keep your Personal Security  Details, PIN, 
card and chequebook secure 
9.7 the care of your chequebooks, cards, PINs,  Personal Security  Details  and selected 
personal information is essential to help prevent fraud and protect  your account. To 
ensure this you must:c) always take reasonable steps to keep your cards safe and 
your PIN, Personal Security Details and selected personal information secret and 
dispose of them  safely f) not disclose your PIN and Personal Security Details  to 
anyone else, not even a member of Santander  staff.  h) only enter your Personal  
Security Details where you are requested to do so by an online banking  screen;  i) act 
on any further instructions we give you to ensure that your online banking is secure. 
Any instructions  will reflect good security practice, taking  account of developments in 
e-commerce.
13.1 in each case we have to show that you acted fraudulently,  deliberately or with gross 
negligence or that you failed  to notify  us as required.
13.3 we have to prove: any allegation  of fraud; or that you were grossly  negligent  in 
failing to follow any of the safeguards listed in 9.7
key questions
In my view the above relevant considerations mean that, if the transactions  were 
unauthorised, it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to refund the amount stolen from 
Miss B, unless Miss B, with intent or gross  negligence failed  to comply with the Terms and 
Conditions of the account and the obligations set out in Regulation  57.
Ref: DRN63113378In its final response to Miss B, Santander doesnt  give a clear  reason for deciding not to 
refund the amount stolen.  It simply says that the claim  was reviewed by a member  of its 
investigation team and Miss B was advised the claim had been  declined. It goes on to say 
that it cant be held responsible for the loss on Miss Bs account. 
Santander has told us the reason for deciding not to refund the amount  stolen  from Miss B is 
that the funds  wouldnt  have been  sent if Miss B had refused to provide the OTP. Its said 
that the compromise of personal data was made at the customers  end. So it doesnt think  
its at fault for the loss, as under the Terms and Conditions of the account its not liable for a 
loss incurred when  personal security  details are disclosed. 
In these circumstances I think there  are two key questions relevant to my consideration 
about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances:
1.Were the disputed  transactions authorised by Miss B? and;
2.If they werent, can Santander  demonstrate  that Miss B failed with intent or gross  
negligence either to comply with the Terms and Conditions  of her account  or to keep her 
personalised security  details safe?
were the disputed transactions  authorised by Miss B?
On the balance of evidence  Im not persuaded that Miss B authorised  these transactions 
from her account. Ill explain why.
Miss B has told us that the fraudster  knew  a lot of personal information about her. Miss B 
thinks this might have been  through a phishing email she had received pertaining to be 
from HMRC, whom  she had genuinely  been  in contact with about  a tax rebate. While its not 
completely clear how the fraudster had obtained personal information  about Miss B, what 
Miss B has described is very possible.
 
Ive not seen anything that enables me to say for sure how the information was obtained. 
Fraudsters use highly  complex and varied  methods to gather information from what can be 
many different sources.
Information received  from Santander about  the activity on Miss Bs online account shows  
that the forgotten customer ID option was selected. When this happens a customer can get 
a reminder of their customer  ID by providing personal information, such as full name,  date of 
birth and card/account  number. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed between Miss B and the fraudster, but it appears as 
though, along with personal information the fraudster already had about  Miss B, she gave 
the fraudster enough  information  for them to gain access to her online banking. The 
information Miss B divulged was all in the context  of protecting her account  and trying  to stop 
unrecognised transactions,  rather than to authorise  payments. 
Miss B accepts she gave  over one OTP to the fraudster, but shes done so on the 
understanding that this was to allow unrecognised payments to be stopped. Given what  
happened next, its clear the fraudster used this OTP to set up a new payee.  The fraudster 
then transferred money out of Miss Bs account to payees unknown to her.
Ref: DRN63113379Miss B recalls  that she did receive a second  text, but that she didnt give this over as she 
became suspicious.  The activity records that Santander has provided suggest that three 
OTPs were sent to Miss B and each  were validated. On balance,  I think it most likely  that 
there were three OTPs sent to Miss Bs phone  and that she most  likely gave all of these over 
to the fraudster. I say that as without these  the fraudster wouldve been unable  to progress 
with setting up the new payees.
Miss B describes the situation surrounding the call with the fraudster, and the level of trust 
built through what seems  to have been  the considerable sophistication of the scam. I think in 
those circumstances  it would have been understandable that Miss B, believing  she was 
speaking with her bank, gave over the codes in messages shed been sent  even  though 
she may not have recollected it after the event.
Ive not seen any compelling evidence  that suggests to me that, at any point during the call 
with the fraudster, Miss B knew that any payments  were going to be made from her account.  
Miss B says she thought she was speaking to somebody from Santander, they told her the 
text would be coming and she gave it to them as she thought  it was to stop an authorised 
payment. For the reasons explained,  I think its most  likely  this is also what happened with 
the second and third OTPs, even though Miss B may not have recalled  giving this 
information over. 
Regardless, its clear the fraudster used the OTP codes to set up three new payees on the 
account. The fraudster  then transferred money  out of Miss Bs bank account  to new payees  
unknown to her. 
Miss B recalls  becoming suspicious during the call with the fraudster and chose to end the 
call. While on the call with the fraudster shed received a message from Santanders fraud 
department and so she called the bank to raise  her suspicions. During this call Miss B told 
Santander that she didnt recognise the disputed transactions. 
Santanders fraud prevention system  had been  triggered, seemingly due to the unusual 
activity on Miss Bs account of three new payees being set up. This resulted in the second 
and third payments  for £800  pending   once Miss B confirmed to Santander these were not 
authorised by her, it was able to cancel these. From  the information  Ive seen Santander did 
act promptly in contacting the beneficiary bank about the first payment for £800  it was 
unfortunate that it wasnt able to recover the funds due to the money  being  moved  on quickly  
on from the beneficiary bank.
Miss B has said that it should have been possible for the beneficiary bank to block  the 
payments. But I havent considered a complaint against the beneficiary bank in this decision. 
Overall, I dont  think Miss B was aware that any payments were being  made  from her 
account. On balance, Im persuaded she didnt  consent to or authorise these transactions to 
be made from her account.
So, my starting point here is that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Miss B to be held liable 
for these  transactions  which I think are more likely  than not to have been unauthorised  
unless she had failed  with intent or gross negligence to comply  with the terms and conditions 
of her relationship with Santander and the obligations set out in the PSR 2009.
Ref: DRN631133710did Miss B fail with gross negligence  either to comply with the Terms and Conditions  
of her account,  or to keep her personalised security details safe?
It is not enough to say Miss B was grossly negligent  simply because she shared security 
details for the account. Careful consideration needs to be given to the circumstances under 
which those details were  shared.
Miss B was tricked by a fraudster into giving  some account security  information. Miss B was 
also then tricked into handing over OTP codes  which allowed new payees  to be set up. 
However, on the balance of evidence, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that, 
in falling for these  tricks  and failing to keep  her security details safe,  Miss B was grossly 
negligent and Ill explain why.
As I set out earlier, negligence  is often referred  to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. 
I think it is fair to say that gross negligence involves a degree of negligence that is higher 
than ordinary negligence. That is consistent with what has been held by the courts in a 
commercial contract context (as mentioned, Mance  J held that Gross negligence is clearly 
intended to represent something  more fundamental than failure to exercise proper skill 
and/or care constituting negligence), and the FCAs guidance, which says that gross 
negligence is a higher  standard  than the standard  of negligence under common  law. 
Ive thought carefully about the actions Miss B took in the circumstances here, and whether 
what she did fell so far below the standard of a reasonable person that it would be fair to say 
she failed with gross negligence to keep her personalised security details safe or to comply 
with the Terms and Conditions of the account.
Gross negligence  isnt an abstract  concept. Its important to take into account  all the 
circumstances when  considering whether an individuals  actions amount to gross 
negligence. The scam here involved vishing, social  engineering  and most  likely 
phishing, where the fraudsters use a range of sophisticated techniques to trick,  deceive  
and manipulate their victims into giving out confidential information. Here Miss B was made  
to believe she was talking  to her own bank, needing to act quickly  to protect  her bank 
account which she was told was being used  for fraudulent  spending. So Ive thought about 
Miss Bs actions in that context, and considered  her overall actions. 
Miss B thought the text message she was sent was to stop a payment, as this is what she 
was told by the caller,  who she thought was from her bank. This is a sophisticated method 
used by fraudsters  to trick their victims into a sense  of security and safe environment that 
they are dealing with their genuine bank and that they need to act quickly to protect their 
account. So I can understand  why it wouldnt, reasonably, have  raised any obvious suspicion 
from Miss B  or any reasonable person in these circumstances.
I do not think, at the time, Miss B thought  anything other than the actions  she was taking 
were for any other purpose than to prevent  a fraudulent payment leaving her account and to 
secure her bank account. Rather than appreciating  the risk she was taking by following the 
fraudsters instructions but disregarding or being indifferent  to them,  she was under the 
opposite impression that if she didnt follow those instructions she was at risk of losing 
money. 
Miss B recalls  receiving  three OTPs, but only divulging  one to the fraudster.  Although, for 
reasons already explained I think it likely all three codes were  received and given to the 
fraudster. In this case, it seems likely  that the fraudsters convinced  her that the codes were  
Ref: DRN631133711needed in the process  of protecting her money  and the various stages the bank needed to 
go through to do that. And I wouldnt  expect  Miss B to know  what Santanders  processes are 
for stopping  a payment or to necessarily question what  she was being  asked  to do  
because she genuinely believed she was working with her bank to protect  her account. She 
reasonably felt worried about the security of her bank account,  and felt a corresponding 
pressure to act. In similar circumstances,  I think a reasonable person  wouldve acted in the 
same way that Miss B did here.
So on balance I dont  think the codes provided  by Miss B to the fraudster were enough to 
break the spell she was under. Ive also considered that Miss B acted promptly in contacting 
Santander to raise her concerns when they dawned on her. This is what she was expected  
to do under the Terms and Condition of her account. Overall, Im not persuaded that her 
actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would  do in the circumstances to amount  
to gross negligence.
warnings
Santander refers  to a number  of things it has done to raise the general awareness  of fraud 
risk amongst  its customers,  including specific warnings which it says Miss B would have had 
which provided information on how customers are being scammed  and how to keep details 
secure.
But even if Miss B engaged with these things  it doesnt follow that she was grossly negligent 
for falling victim to fraud thereafter. Nor would it be necessarily be fair to say Miss B was 
grossly negligent  if she did not engage  with these things and then fell victim to fraud. I am 
required to consider whether what Miss B did, or failed to do, fell so far below the standard  of 
a reasonable person that it would be fair to say she failed with gross  negligence to keep her 
personalised security  details safe or to comply with the terms and conditions of her account.
To be clear, Im not saying that fraud  warnings by a bank arent ever relevant at all, or 
couldnt, potentially,  make a difference in a specific example of fraud.  Nor am I condoning 
failure to comply with terms and conditions or to read and comply with in the moment  and 
other warnings. But by way of balance to this point, I also think  its right to appreciate and 
understand that, in a busy world, such messages are not always  read by consumers  and 
even if read may not, reasonably, be in a consumers mind  when  faced with a sophisticated 
real time confidence trick of this nature some  time later. It is encouraging to hear that banks 
are increasingly looking  at ways to provide  more  real time and impactful  fraud specific 
warnings with this in mind.
On the facts of this particular case, I dont  believe Miss Bs failure  to read or heed the 
warnings in question  is enough, on the balance of evidence, for Santander to demonstrate 
gross negligence occurred here.
Ref: DRN631133712putting things right
As both parties agree, I now direct  Santander  to:
-refund  Miss Bs account  with £800; and
-pay interest on that amount at the respective account interest rates,  from the date of the 
withdrawals to the date of settlement.  If Santander deducts tax from the interest element 
of this award, it should provide Miss B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
-I think it would be fair for Santander to pay Miss B a further £200 compensation. This is 
to recognise that Miss B has been without her money for some  time and for the trouble  
and upset Ive no doubt this would  have caused.  
Under PSR 2009,  and the Terms and Conditions of the account which reflect that legislation,  
Santander is entitled to hold Miss B responsible for the first £50 of their loss. If it intends to 
do this, it can take this amount from the £800,  before adding the interest  element.
my final decision
As Ive concluded above I now direct Santander UK plc to settle Miss Bs complaint as Ive 
set out both here and in my provisional decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2019.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6311337