K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about a letter he received  from Bank of Scotland  plc. It referred to an 
account thatd  already  been closed. 
background
Mr D received a letter  from Bank  of Scotland. It said he was due a refund of £23. But it also 
mentioned his account was still £668 in debit.  Mr D was very upset. Hed entered bankruptcy  
in 2012 and it shouldve been completed  in 2013. It took a further six weeks  before the bank 
confirmed there was no debt outstanding. And during that time Mr D was worried that debt 
collectors would  turn up at his door. Hes also unhappy the bank was able to contact him 
after hed moved several  times. 
Bank of Scotland said itd got Mr Ds address from the credit agencies because  it thought  it 
needed to send him a refund. But its letter  had been sent in error. It could see Mr B had 
entered into bankruptcy in May 2012. And the £23 credit had already been applied  to his 
account before it was closed. Bank  of Scotland apologised for any distress its letter had 
caused. It confirmed  nothing had been  reported to the credit reference  agencies. And it 
agreed to pay Mr D £100 compensation for any stress hed suffered.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with the banks response. So he contacted  our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He understood the amount of worry that Bank  of 
Scotlands letter wouldve  caused. But he felt the bank had provided a clear explanation. And 
he felt the compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.  He was satisfied Mr D didnt 
owe Bank of Scotland any money. And his dealings  with the bank were complete. 
Mr D was unhappy with our adjudicators view. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr D was upset.  Hed entered into bankruptcy  in 2012. And after a 
year it shouldve been discharged. Although the letter  mentioned a refund  of £23 it also 
showed a debit balance on his former account  of over £600. Mr D said thatd been  dealt  with 
in 2012. So Ive looked carefully at everything thats happened.
Bank of Scotland explained  itd been reviewing some historical accounts. And in some  cases 
itd decided to refund fees thatd been charged  in error. So it sent letters to all of the account  
holders involved.
Mr D is unhappy Bank  of Scotland was able to contact him despite moving house a few 
times. But the bank  has explained it used the credit  agencies to get his current  address. And 
I dont think it did anything  wrong. The bank thought it owed Mr D some money. So it was 
trying to contact him to send a cheque. When Bank of Scotland  looked into the matter it 
realised itd already  re-credited the £23 to Mr Ds account. Itd taken place  just before his 
bankruptcy. So the bankruptcy figures were  correct. And there hadnt been  any mistakes. It 
shouldnt have contacted Mr D.
Ref: DRN64859252But the letter  also mentioned a debit  balance of over £600.  Mr D thought the debt had been  
dealt with by his bankruptcy. And he spent a number of weeks  worrying that debt collectors 
would try and collect it from him. Although that wasnt the case, I do understand why Mr D 
wouldve been so concerned. When businesses  investigate  complaints they have up to eight 
weeks to reach a decision. And I can see Bank of Scotland  responded within six weeks.  But 
thats six weeks during  which Mr D was very worried.  
The bank has explained it kept a note on its internal  records of Mr Ds debit balance. But its 
records also showed that Mr D had been declared bankrupt. As far as the bank is concerned  
Mr D doesnt owe it anything. It wont chase him for any money. And theres  nothing  about 
the matter recorded on Mr Ds credit file. 
Its not the role of this service to tell Bank  of Scotland how to write its letters or conduct its 
business. Thats the role of its regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority. But Im sure the 
bank looks at the outcome of all its complaints to see if it can improve  things. And I can see 
why it caused  Mr D such concern. Although the letter didnt say the bank was going to take 
any action it did mention a former debt thatd already  been  dealt with.
While I cant say Bank of Scotland has made any errors I do think  it caused  Mr D a lot of 
stress and upset. And Im pleased to see the bank has now confirmed Mr D doesnt owe it 
any money. And his credit file doesnt  show  anything  in relation to his former  balance.
I dont underestimate  the upset this has caused  Mr D. And I hope Ive explained everything 
thats taken place. Bank of Scotland has offered Mr D £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset its letter caused him. And I think thats a fair and reasonable amount given everything 
thats taken place. The bank has also apologised for its mistake and confirmed Mr D no 
longer owes it any money. So I dont  think  Bank  of Scotland needs  to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I wont  be asking Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6485925