K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC Life (UK) Limited  mis-sold him an annuity  in 2012.
background
In 2012 Mr M requested  a retirement  pack from HBCS.  They  sent him a letter in March  
explaining his retirement options. In April Mr M had a meeting with HSBC. Shortly  after he 
took out tax free cash and an annuity  with them. He says he was advised to take a single life 
annuity as this would give him a higher income. He says he wasnt  told that he could buy an 
annuity with a different provider and whilst he was told about  enhanced annuities, HSBC  told 
him that he wasnt eligible for this. 
Mr M had health issues which might have enabled  him to get an enhanced  annuity, so he 
feels he was given  unsuitable advice and has lost out as a result.
HSBC didnt uphold  his complaint. They said he wasnt given any advice by them  and that 
this was a non-advised sale during which he was given all the information he needed  to 
make an informed choice.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complain either. She thought based on the information 
available this had been a non-advised  sale and that HSBC had given Mr M all relevant 
information about his option to shop around  and about enhanced annuities.
Mr M didnt  agree so this was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I understand that this will be disappointing  for him. Ill explain my 
reasons in more  detail  below.
The first issue to decide is whether HSBC advised Mr M in his meeting  with him on 17 April 
2012. Mr M is adamant HSBC gave him advice and HSBC says they didnt. I wasnt present 
at the meeting, so I dont know what exactly was discussed. So I needed to decide  what I 
think most likely  happened based  on the information I have.
I first would like to explain the difference between an advised  or a non-advised sale. In an 
advised sale, the adviser would recommend a particular  product  based on the customers  
circumstances and they would need  to ensure the product was suitable  for this particular 
customer in their particular circumstances. In a non-advised sale, the customer  would be 
given clear and non-misleading information  about  different products to allow them  to make 
an informed choice for themselves.
Ive looked at the paperwork Mr M received.  In March 2012, before he met with HSBC,  he 
received a letter from them explaining that different providers would offer annuities with 
different rates  and that he should research the open market. It explained that he was likely to 
get a higher income by researching the open  market than restricting  himself  to one 
company. The letter  also explained that he might be eligible for an enhanced annuity  and 
that lifestyle, health and sometime occupation  and postcode might  affect  annuity  rates.  
Ref: DRN68313902HSBC said in this letter that they could arrange a referral  to a third party  independent 
financial adviser who could give guidance  in the choice  in products and the best rates 
available on the open market. HSBC  said Mr M was under no obligation  to accept this 
service, but they recommended  Mr M to use this service to see whether he could get a 
higher income.  A fee was charged  for this service.
They explained that, alternatively,  HSBC  could provide him with an annuity. And if he had 
questions about  his pension plan or wanted an appointment with a Financial Planning 
Adviser in branch or wanted to be referred to the Open Market Option Service  provided by 
the third party,  then he should  get in touch.
I think from the letter it was clear that if Mr M wanted advice on different rates and products 
on the open market, he could be referred  to a third party. And HSBC would only offer their 
own products.
The annuity  application itself also included a declaration which  Mr M signed which said:
I am entering into this arrangement on the understanding that no advice has been  provided 
by or is available from HSBC Bank pic or HSBC Life (UK) Limited or HSBC  Trust Company 
(UK) Limited.
The key fact document which was sent to Mr M had a questions  and answers  section which 
said:
Can I get advice?
No advice regarding  the suitability of the contract or the way in which  you should take your 
pension benefits  will be given by HSBC Life (UK) Limited.
So looking  at the evidence I have, on balance I think its more  likely here that HSBC  didnt 
provide Mr M with any advice on his annuity  but  that they discussed various options of 
annuity they could offer him. The key facts document made it clear that HSBC didnt offer 
enhanced annuities themselves.
Even when  not giving advice, HSBC needed  to give Mr M sufficient  information  to make an 
informed choice. An annuity can still be mis-sold  without advice, for example if not enough  or 
misleading information is given to a customer. However, I think HSBC did provide Mr M with 
all relevant information here. The key facts documents explained different options of 
annuities (with or without  spouses pension, including guarantee periods and the differences  
between level payments or increasing  payments over the years.). And Ive seen illustrations 
sent to Mr M that showed the difference  between taking tax free cash  and an annuity with 
the remainder of the fund value or using the whole  pension  fund towards an annuity.
Mr M also provided his own notes from the meeting  which  indicates  he was looking  at 
options of taking a maximum tax-free  cash lump sum and annuity options with or without  a 
spouses pension  and with a level or index-linked payment.
It looks like Mr M called HSBC after receiving the annuity application forms to ask questions. 
HSBC sent him a letter the next day explaining that in order to choose a spouses pension 
he needed to provide  his wifes  identity  documents. Mr M replied by letter that he had read 
all the helpful  pension information and after careful consideration and discussion had 
decided to remove the spouses  pension  in order to have a higher income for himself.
Ref: DRN68313903Mr M says he was told by HSBC that a single life annuity would  provide  more income than if 
he added  a spouses pension. He says this shows he was given advice. I think the above 
letters support  that Mr M discussed the spouses pension with HSBC. However, I have to 
disagree that this means he was given advice.  Explaining the differences  between annuity 
options and what  the advantages and disadvantages are is not the same as giving a 
recommendation. A single  life annuity  does give a higher income  than a joint life annuity.  
This is simply  factual information.
Based on the information available to me I think Mr M was provided with annuity  options and 
chose the one he thought  was right for him at the time.
I appreciate Mr M is suffering from ill health  and feels  his income should be higher. However,  
based on what Ive seen HSBC gave Mr M all relevant  information  he needed. He was told 
about the open market  option and that higher rates (including enhanced  annuity rates) were  
potentially available  from different providers. They even recommended him to the services of 
an independent financial adviser. Mr M chose not to accept this service, but decided to buy 
an annuity with HSBC instead. 
I havent seen  any indication that Mr M was misinformed about  anything at any stage or that 
he was given unclear,  unfair or misleading information. So I dont think HSBC  did anything  
wrong here.  I therefore wont ask them to do anything further.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr M.to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6831390