K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about @SIPP LIMITED.  Hes unhappy about the delays in a trade that 
was made  in his SIPP  account.
background
Mr W held a Self-Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP)  with @SIPP. Within  the SIPP  account 
he held a gold trading  account with another business. Ill refer to that business as G.
On Thursday 28 February 2019  Mr W attempted to make a sale through his account with G. 
He then sent an email  to an employee at @SIPP which said:  Please note that I arranged to 
sell my gold holdings today and am now sat back in cash.
Mr W didnt receive  any confirmation from G that the sale had been  made.
The email  to @SIPP generated  an out-of-office response from the employee, but Mr W 
didnt see that as it was stopped by his spam filter.
Unaware of that response, Mr W sent a further  email on 1 March 2019 asking for 
confirmation of the transaction as nothing was showing in his account. @SIPP responded 
the same  day asking that Mr W sign an instruction for the transaction.  Mr W responded on 2 
March querying why he needed  to do so, given he had completed the transaction on-line.
Mr W sent a second message that day pointing out that the gold price  had fallen.
@SIPP responded on 4 March 2019  saying that the instruction had been sent to G, and that 
it required a signed  instruction.
Mr W sent an email  on 5 March 2019  pointing out that he had completed the transaction on-
line and had stated  the currency he wanted. He also said that he wanted to receive the price 
he had transacted  at. 
On 6 March 2019 @SIPP  told Mr W that G had no record of his transaction  on its system.
On 7 March 2019 Mr W received confirmation of the transaction but he had received a lower 
price than the price  available  on 28 February  2019.
Mr W made a complaint. @SIPP didnt uphold the complaint and it was referred to this 
service where it was considered by an investigator. She decided that the complaint should 
be upheld in part. She said that @SIPP had informed  Mr W of the need for a written 
instruction before this and the terms and conditions stated that @SIPP would not be 
responsible for price  changes between an instruction being received and being executed.
The investigator added that Mr Ws email on 28 February 2019  had generated an out-of-
office response so @SIPP  didnt have  any instruction until 1 March 2019. Mr W could  have 
used another,  generic, email address if he wished.  G had then confirmed that there  was no 
trade in its system and Mr W accepted that he had not received confirmation from G as he 
would have expected.
So @SIPP  didnt have an instruction until 4 March  2019  and this was passed on to G on 5 
March 2019. G responded saying that it needed a clear instruction and told @SIPP of the 
Ref: DRN69484802deadline of 2.30 pm to secure  the price. @SIPP responded at 2.50 pm and the sale was 
made, but based  on the prices for 6 March  2019  (which were lower).
The investigator concluded that @SIPP only had a clear instruction  on 5 March  2019 but this 
wasnt provided to G until after that days deadline. She felt that @SIPP ought to have 
provided it in time to secure the price for 5 March 2019.
The investigator set out how Mr Ws loss should  be calculated and said that @SIPP should  
pay £100 for his trouble and upset.
Mr W disagreed,  he said that he had always been in contact with a particular person at 
@SIPP and didnt use any generic address. The on-line facility  was useless if he then 
needed to contact @SIPP to make a transaction. He understood that a transaction  had been  
made. He also questioned  why @SIPP had gone  ahead with the transaction at the lower  
value and questioned what authority it had from him. The investigator responded saying that 
an out-of-office response had been sent, there was no confirmation  of the transaction and Mr 
W hadnt withdrawn his instruction to sell.
@SIPP didnt agree. It said that it received  a message from G at 9.17 am on 5 March 2019  
and responded  by 2.50 pm. This wasnt unreasonable given the instruction had to be 
checked and signed off by two signatories.  It also disagreed with the award for trouble and 
upset as Mr W knew clear  instructions were needed.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised above what each party has said in this complaint but Ive read everything. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive decided that I agree with the investigator  and with 
her conclusions which are set out above. I uphold this complaint in part and Ill explain why.
I can appreciate that this transaction  will have caused Mr W a lot of frustration. And this 
frustration can only have  been compounded by the losses he suffered when the gold price 
fell between the time he first attempted to sell, and the sale being  completed.
However, I dont think it would be fair to conclude that @SIPP are responsible  for all of those 
losses.
The terms and conditions  of the SIPP agreement say that @SIPP wont  be responsible for 
price changes which occur during a transaction. That is what  happened here, but Ive 
considered whether it did contribute  to the delays. 
The transaction Mr W attempted  online with G on 28 February 2019 didnt happen. Its not 
clear why, but G didnt  receive his instruction, Mr W didnt  receive  any confirmation from G 
and, as he said, nothing  was showing on his account to say the transaction  had been made. 
Mr W sent a message to @SIPP on 28 February  2019 telling it about the transaction. This 
generated an out-of-office response but unfortunately  this response was stopped  by Mr Ws 
Ref: DRN69484803spam filter, and had he received it he would have  known that his instruction wasnt  being 
actioned by @SIPP.
So it was only on Monday 4 March 2019 when @SIPP actually sent an instruction to G, and 
after that when  it became  clear that G didnt  have Mr Ws earlier online instruction. Once this 
was apparent, I think @SIPP could have ensured  that the transaction was completed in 
good time on 5 March  2019 so that price could be secured. It knew by then that Mr W had 
been trying  to make the transaction since 28 February 2019 and his emails over the 
weekend had made his frustration with the situation  very clear. So I agree with the 
investigator that it would  be fair if @SIPP compensated  Mr W for any loss he suffered for the 
price differential between 5 and 6 March 2019.
Ive considered Mr Ws point that @SIPP processed this transaction when it didnt have his 
actual authority to do so. He had tried to sell on 28 February 2019 at the price  available then. 
The price  fell and was lower on 6 March  2019  when the sale was finally  made. He did say in 
his emails that he wanted the price form 28 February 2019.
I do understand Mr Ws position. I can see his argument that once the price form 28 
February 2019 was missed, @SIPP shouldnt have gone ahead. As he says, when @SIPP 
confirmed the instruction  to G, it didnt have a further instruction from him and he had 
expressed his concerns  in his email of 2 March 2019. However, its equally true that Mr W 
didnt give a clear  instruction that he didnt want the transaction to go ahead, He knew  the 
gold price was falling, he was experienced in trades like this and I think  he could have 
stopped the sale if he had wished  to. Overall, I dont  think @SIPP was acting unreasonably 
when it went ahead  with the transaction. So far as I can see, the instruction  it had wasnt  
date or price  specific, and I dont  think it was unreasonable for it to infer from Mr Ws 
messages, that he wished  the transaction to go ahead as soon as possible.
I agree  with the investigator.  I uphold the complaint in part. I agree that @SIPP should have 
completed the transaction sooner than it did. Its failure to do so will have  caused  Mr W 
frustration and an award of £100  is fair to reflect that.
To put things right @SIPP should  calculate  the price differential between 5 and 6 March 
2019 (I understand this is £112.45) and apply the apply the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income total return index  to this sum over the period 6 March  2019 up to the date of 
payment. 
The final sum should be paid into Mr Ws pension but not if would  conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. If @SIPP is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ws pension  
plan, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated assuming Mr W will be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax. If Mr W would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75 per cent of the 
compensation.
Ref: DRN69484804my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about @SIPP LIMITED.  It must  pay redress  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6948480