K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax forced her into debt following 
a loan she says she was pressurised into taking out in 2011.
background
Miss H says in 2011 Halifax  reviewed  her finances. She says at the time she had about 
£24,000 in savings and a credit card debt of about  £3,800. Miss H says Halifax  told her she 
needed to repay the credit  card debt by either using her savings or by taking out a loan. She 
says she felt pressurised into taking  out a loan and Halifax was hostile to her. Miss H says 
she has taken out other  loans and has now been  left in a position that she no longer has any 
savings and that the interest rate was too high on one of the loans.
Halifax received Miss Hs complaint in 2016 and said in summary that Miss H agreed to the 
loans and it was her choice how she repaid her debt. It says all the loans were correctly  
assessed and that Miss H used the loans  to repay  other debts. Halifax says it should have 
removed Miss Hs overdraft facility in 2015  but says its now removed that overdraft debt of 
about £1,700. Halifax also says Miss H agreed  to the loan interest rates.
Miss H accepted Halifaxs offer in 2016 but now says it should pay her compensation for 
what took place.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  Halifax had dealt fairly with it. The 
adjudicator thought Miss H had agreed to the loans  and their interest rates and could  have 
used the 14 day cooling off period to cancel them if she wished. The adjudicator thought  
Halifax had dealt fairly with the overdraft problem by writing off the balance  of about £1,700.
Miss H doesnt accept that view and says she had money invested with Halifax  and 
questions why she was asked to repay her debt in 2011. She also questions why she wasnt 
referred to debt advisors sooner  and says the original  loan caused  the later problems.
The adjudicator looked at the complaint again but came to the same overall view and also 
thought there wasnt any evidence  of Miss H being pressurised into taking out that original 
loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Miss H will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats  happened.
I appreciate that Miss H says she felt pressurised into taking out the original loan in 2011  
and that it wasnt  needed. But Im satisfied  that was Miss Hs decision and that she didnt 
have to proceed with it. And even if she felt she couldnt cancel the loan within  a branch  then 
she could have cancelled  the loan within the 14 day cooling off period. I think  it would be 
impossible for Halifax staff to provide their side of what took place in 2011 due to the 
passage of time and I would have expected  Miss H to have raised that issue  at the time or 
shortly afterwards if she felt pressured  into taking out the loan.
Ref: DRN60542522Im satisfied that the later loans were  all agreed by Miss H and that they were correctly 
assessed by Halifax. I also think that again Miss H had the option of not proceeding with 
them if she wished.
There is no question here that Halifax ought  to have removed the overdraft  facility  in 2015. I 
can see that Halifax accepted that in 2016  and I think  acted fairly by crediting Miss Hs 
account with about £1,700 which was the overdraft balance at the time.
I appreciate Miss H says the interest rate on one of the loans was too high. But Im satisfied 
that Miss H agreed to it and signed  the loan application agreeing  to its terms and conditions.
Overall Im satisfied Halifax has dealt fairly with this complaint and so it follows  that I cant  
fairly order it to do anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6054252