K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc didnt treat them  fairly when 
they experienced financial difficulties.
background
Mr and Mrs R said they ended up in debt in 2007 as a result of Mr R losing his job. Theyve 
said they incurred  bank charges between 2007 and 2014 on their joint current  account  and 
theyve said these were  unfair  and extreme. They think it doesnt make  sense  for them  to be 
charged fees when  a payment cant be made  as if they cant  afford the payment, then they 
cant afford the charge.
Co-op said when  they became aware  of Mr and Mrs Rs financial difficulties they took a 
range of measures  to help them out. This included:
agreeing reducing  overdraft limits
cancelling direct debits or standing  orders  that wouldve taken  Mr and Mrs R over 
their agreed overdraft limit
changing Mr and Mrs Rs debit cards  to Electron
not giving Mr and Mrs R a chequebook
Mr and Mrs R have said they didnt  think these measures were  helpful. They felt the charges 
were still unfair. A reducing overdraft was only agreed because  Co-op wanted the debt 
repaid. The direct debits  and standing orders still had to be paid. The Electron card wasnt 
widely accepted  and not having a chequebook  caused embarrassment as they had to ask 
family members to write  out cheques.
Our adjudicator considered everything  hed received and decided  the case shouldnt  be 
upheld. He said in summary:
Charges cant be challenged on the grounds  theyre too high or unfair, due to the 
Supreme Court  ruling in 2009. But he could  see if they were applied  reasonably   
and he decided they were applied in line with Co-ops terms and conditions,  so he 
didnt think Co-op had done  anything  wrong.
Overall he felt Co-op had been engaging with Mr and Mrs R about the account and 
had taken appropriate measures. He said those  measures meant Mr and Mrs R 
couldnt spend funds that werent in their account.
Although they agreed with some parts of the adjudicators findings, Mr and Mrs R still felt the 
charges were high,  and given their income they couldnt really afford it. And when direct 
debits or standing orders were cancelled the bills to which those  instructions  related still had 
to be paid. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN64701072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, which I know  will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs R. Ill explain why.
charges
As our adjudicator has said, there  was a Supreme Court ruling in 2009 which means the 
amount of charges cant be challenged on the grounds theyre too high. But, like our 
adjudicator, I can consider whether  the charges were applied  fairly and in line with Co-ops 
terms and conditions.
Ive looked through all statements from January 2007 until December 2014, and based on 
what Ive seen Im satisfied the charges  were  applied correctly. I understand Mr and Mrs Rs 
point of view on this, in that if they cant afford  the payment, then they cant afford the charge 
 so it shouldnt  be applied. But Co-op  is allowed to apply  charges in line with the terms and 
conditions  which theyve  done.
financial difficulties
When a bank becomes  aware of a customer being in financial  difficulties, best practice 
suggests they treat them positively and sympathetically. This doesnt mean charges will 
always be waived or refunded.  I dont think Co-op should have to do anything further in this 
case. Ill explain why.
I can see in the contact notes that Mr and Mrs R have  regularly been in touch with Co-op 
about their account  and how its running.  And on at least  one occasion  I can see Co-op  did 
refund a charge to Mr and Mrs Rs account.
Ive seen notes  of conversations between Mr and Mrs R and Co-op  about  temporary 
overdrafts  including a time in May 2010 when Mrs R called  and asked for a temporary 
overdraft for a month,  but Co-op felt giving this over two months was more likely  to help 
Mr and Mrs R. I can also see Co-op  sent out letters to Mr and Mrs R agreeing temporary 
overdrafts on multiple  occasions   including  March 2013, June 2014, April 2015 and 
July 2016. Im satisfied  these wouldve  come  off the back of conversations between  Co-op  
and Mr and Mrs R  and presumably  Mr and Mrs R were happy with the arrangements  at the 
time, since they agreed to them. I think Co-op have  tried to help Mr and Mrs R when 
agreeing to these  overdrafts arrangements   and Ive not seen anything to suggest  
otherwise.
Ive also thought about Co-ops actions when returning payments, changing  the card type 
and not issuing a chequebook  and think these actions were reasonable. By making these 
changes the bank was trying  to help stop Mr and Mrs R from using money  they didnt have. 
Missing payments and going into their overdraft wouldve  resulted in more fees being 
charged which, in turn, would cause them further difficulties.  I appreciate  Mr and Mrs R still 
needed to pay their bills, but they didnt always have the money  available  to do so. And the 
bank isnt obliged  to continue lending to them,  particularly when their financial situation 
means theyre likely  to have difficulties  repaying the related debt.
Ref: DRN64701073Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs R have said, and although  I may not have 
reflected everything  theyve said in this decision,  I want them to know  Ive read it and taken  it 
into account. But overall Im satisfied  Co-op  have treated  Mr and Mrs R positively  and 
sympathetically, so I wont be telling them to refund any further charges or take any other 
action.
my final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6470107