K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that fees and charges Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax applied to 
her current  account which  she feels were unfair.
background
Mrs K had a current account with Halifax. She decided to close  it in 2013 as she was 
incurring charges for exceeding her overdraft  limit, and she felt this was impacting  on her 
financial situation. She says that at the time Halifax didnt offer her any help to regain  control  
over her finances and was told she wouldnt  be able to claim the charges back.
In 2018 she complained and asked for a full refund of the charges that had been  applied to 
her account  as she felt they were unfair.
Halifax said it wouldnt be able to review  any charges that had been  applied before 
December 2012,  because of the time limits  for making a complaint about these. But it 
reviewed the charges  Mrs K incurred from then until her account was closed and it said that 
these had been applied in accordance with the account terms and conditions. 
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and explained that she would be 
considering only those fees and charges applied after 22 December 2012. And the 
investigator thought  that these had been  correctly applied.
Mrs K didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She said the charges had been applied  at a 
very difficult time and this took its toll on her. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the charges  Mrs K incurred on her current account during this period until she 
closed her account. These were planned  overdraft  charges and fees for when she exceeded 
the limit of her overdraft.  And I do appreciate all Mrs K has said about the impact of these  on 
her financial  situation  at that time.
However, from what Ive seen, the charges  Mrs K incurred for using her overdraft and 
exceeding this limit were  applied  in accordance with the terms and conditions of her current 
account. 
I know Mrs K recalls  speaking to her local branch about these fees and charges or her 
difficulties in 2011 and again  in 2013.  However Halifax has told us that it doesnt have any 
record of Mrs K speaking to it about  them  before 2018. So its difficult  to conclude that it 
shouldve done  more to help her at that time.  And whilst Banks  do have a duty to consider 
circumstances of financial hardship  positively and fairly, that doesnt  necessarily  mean that it 
should refund charges and interest that have been incurred. 
Overall, although I can fully appreciate that these  charges wouldve been  applied for Mrs K 
during what was already a difficult time for her financially,  I dont think  they were unfairly 
applied and I dont  think Halifax should  be required to refund them.
Ref: DRN67532982I can see that Halifax has sent Mrs K two cheques for £50 to acknowledge  the delays in 
initially addressing  her complaint, and for including some wrong information in its initial  
response to her. Taking  everything into account, I dont think  Halifax needs to do anything 
more to resolve Mrs Ks complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6753298