K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr D bought the policy in 2004, during an inbound  telephone call, sometime  after hed taken 
out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint because:
Although a call recording is now no longer  available, Ive considered what  we know 
more widely about how Capital  One sold PPI during  this type of phone call around  
the time this policy was taken out. Ive not seen strong  supporting evidence  that they 
didnt follow their normal sales  process  and I think that its more likely than not that 
Capital One made Mr D aware  that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did still have to give him good  enough  information  about the PPI so he 
could decide if it was right for him and if he wanted to take it out.  
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But Capital One doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his 
circumstances, including  his employment circumstances, it looks  like the policy 
couldve been useful  to him. So I dont  think better  information  wouldve stopped  him 
buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ds comments,  including what hes said about  being told that he 
had to take PPI or the card wouldnt be activated.  As Ive already said,  I think  that its more 
likely than not that Capital One followed their normal sales  process  and made Mr D aware 
that PPI was optional before he agreed  to take it out and these points dont change my 
decision. I appreciate  that this isnt the outcome that Mr D would have wanted,  but I thank 
him for his time and patience whilst  waiting for an answer on his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Ref: DRN64992392Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6499239