K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complaint concerns advice  given by Mattioli Woods Plc to set up a SIPP  (self 
invested personal pension).  Mr R is unhappy that his SIPP fund wasnt invested. He also 
says hes been  overcharged and hes suggested a SIPP wasnt  suitable for him.  
background
Ive considered Mr Rs complaint before.  I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2020.  Ive 
attached it and it forms part of this decision. 
For the reasons  I set out I wasnt sure a SIPP was suitable for Mr R at the time it was 
recommended. I also said there  was a failure to advise him to invest  the employers 
substantial contribution. I suggested redress based  on what  that contribution (made  on 
15 March 2016) would have  been worth on 18 May 2017 (the date when the SIPP  fund was 
transferred and Mattioli  Woods ceased to be Mr Rs adviser). That loss was to be brought  up 
to date using the same  benchmark (the FTSE UK Private  Investor  Income Total Return  
Index). Our calculations indicated Mr Rs total loss (as at 28 April 2020 and which  would 
need updating to the date of settlement) was £17,506.33.
Mr R wasnt entirely  happy with the decision.  He thought the compensation should be more. 
His representative initially said Mr R would accept the payment of £17,506, paid direct and 
less the 15% notional  deduction. But he later clarified that Mr R was also seeking  a full 
refund of the fees hed paid. 
Mattioli Woods  disagreed with my provisional decision and asked that further consideration 
be given to several points.  Ive summarised  the main  issues raised.  
The adviser who gave  the initial advice is still Mr Rs adviser. Mr R must have been 
pleased with the advice he got otherwise  hed have  employed  a new adviser.  
That adviser had taken some information  relating to Mr R with him when he left 
Mattioli Woods. It had asked us to find out about that. Its unclear if we did. Its an 
important point  as to the lack of proof about the risk profiling,  which  is critical to the 
outcome of the complaint.
The original complaint dated 5 June 2017  related  to the fees charged by Mattioli 
Woods. A full refund of £6,018.53 was requested. Thats  the complaint Mattioli  
Woods investigated and responded to.
The original investigator  said the fees charged for the management of the fund were 
fair as these were  outlined in the client agreement. But more should  have been done 
to prompt Mr R to invest  so he may have seen  some growth.  But she couldn't be sure 
how hed have  invested. She suggested Mattioli Woods should refund all the fees 
charged, except  those  specifically for setting  up and managing the SIPP.
Wed expanded the scope of the original  complaint and other investigated areas,  
such as whether the SIPP  was suitable and investment loss. That wasnt  fair or 
reasonable, especially as several investigators  had been involved  and had given 
inconsistent responses and included new assertions. The suitability of the SIPP was 
never part of the complaint. It was recommended by Mr R's current  adviser. 
The SIPP was established  for both future investment and to house  a contribution. It 
served its purpose at outset, although the original intention wasnt  fulfilled as the 
investment into the company didnt take place. But neither  Mattioli Woods nor Mr R 
were aware of that at outset. This doesnt make  the SIPP  an unsuitable vehicle. 
Ref: DRN62117552Investing the monies at outset wasnt the primary concern. The fact find (private 
client information questionnaire)  confirmed that investment  planning was Mr Rs 
second priority,  to revisit later.  The contribution was earmarked for a specific reason.  
A SIPP can be a low risk vehicle as it depends on the underlying assets. If the 
investments are held in cash,  then it is by nature a low risk wrapper. The investments 
remained in cash at Mr R's request, so he had immediate access  to funds should he 
need them.  
During the initial meeting the adviser  explained,  if Mr Rs intention was simply to 
contribute £80,000 and not utilise any self-investment, a SIPP  may not have been 
appropriate for him. But the SIPP was appropriate based on the possibility of 
contributing £180,000  and investing £100,000 into company  shares.  That type of 
asset cant be purchased  in some other  pension  products. Unless Mr R or his adviser 
had provided information  that Mattioli Woods wasnt privy to, Mr Rs primary concern 
at the time was immediate access to his funds  for share purchase.  
Mr R hadnt signed the Portfolio Management  Service (PMS) agreement. In the 
absence of any investment instructions his fund remained uninvested. 
As mentioned, the adviser had taken some client details with him when he left and 
Mattioli Woods  couldnt find any formal record of the discussions between  the adviser 
and Mr R at the time. But that didnt mean none took place. It cant  be determined 
what was actually  said about  immediate access to funds. But, from the original 
advice letter, it is clear  it was important to Mr R for funds to be immediately available.
The SIPP is member led. Mr R is a member trustee with equal  responsibility for all 
decisions made about his fund. Id said Mattioli Woods should have made it clearer 
the fund was being depleted by fees. But Mattioli Woods  couldnt force  Mr R to make  
an investment or act without a completed  agreement or investment instruction. 
Significant work was completed by Mattioli  Woods in liaising  with Mr Rs other 
pension providers when the SIPP was established,  although  no transfers were 
arranged and no additional funds were transferred into the SIPP  the employer 
contribution of £80,000 was the only deposit.  The work was completed at Mr Rs 
request and charged for in line with the agreement hed signed at the outset. 
Mattioli Woods  disagreed with the redress Id suggested. The SIPP  was suitable. It 
cant be held responsible for Mr R refusing to sign and return  the PMS  agreement or 
not giving  any investment  instruction.  No investment could be made without his 
instruction or authority.  Redress of £17,506.33 isnt fair and reasonable and when a 
refund of £6,018.53 was requested. 
A fair outcome would  be to match  the fees currently being charged by Mr Rs existing 
provider. Upon receipt of evidence Mattioli  Woods proposed to refund the difference  
to Mr R as a gesture  of goodwill. That would  effectively  return  him to the position  hed 
be in if his adviser had recommended a simpler product as he subsequently did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive paid particular  attention to the comments made by the parties in response  to my 
provisional decision. I note what Mattioli  Woods  has said about several investigators having 
been involved and different approaches  taken. Thats why I issued a provisional  decision  
so the parties  could  see my views and how they differed  from what wed said earlier  and had 
the chance to comment  before any final decision was issued.  
Ref: DRN62117553Mattioli Woods  has stressed that Mr R is still with the adviser  who left Mattioli Woods. But I 
dont think that means  Mr R cant complain about the service he received from Mattioli 
Woods when the adviser  worked for Mattioli Woods. I assume Mr R was happy with the 
advice at the time otherwise he wouldnt have  followed  it. But he later complained to Mattioli 
Woods. So, whatever  he thought about the advice at the time and even  if hes followed the 
adviser to his new firm, it seems Mr R later came  to the view that he had cause  for complaint 
about Mattioli Woods services. I dont see any reason  why we shouldnt  investigate that 
complaint in the normal way. 
Id also point out that the original adviser  left Mattioli Woods in September 2016 and after 
that Mr R had a new adviser with Mattioli Woods.  Mr Rs complaint spans the period from 
March 2016 until May 2017. For over half of that period a different adviser was in place.  
I dont agree the original complaint related just to the fees. The letter dated 5 June 2018 was 
headed: Complaint  re: fees charged. But it went on to explain the employer contribution of 
£80,000 was never  invested before it was transferred to a new provider, when Mattioli 
Woods ceased to act for Mr R. There was reference  to the fees charged  over a sixteen 
month period  during which time no investments were  made.  And that no specific investment 
recommendations were  made to Mr R. 
In its final response Mattioli Woods responded to the point about the contribution not having  
been invested and said why that hadnt  happened   essentially that Mr R hadnt  completed 
the PMS  agreement and had expressed  an interest  in buying a share  in the business  and 
access to liquid funds  was important to him. 
I think the failure to invest Mr Rs fund was raised  at the outset  and as part of Mr Rs 
complaint, even if that complaint centred on the fees Mr R had paid. 
But, even  if I thought differently, we do have an inquisitorial role. Well look at the whole 
picture and whats led to the consumers dissatisfaction and any losses.  Were not confined 
to just dealing  strictly with the complaint thats actually been made. Although  I dont think  
thats relevant  here because the failure  to invest  the contribution was raised at the outset. 
As to the suitability  of the SIPP, the letter of complaint also requested a full investigation and 
response to some eleven points, including the following: 
8) A SIPP  was recommended to [Mr R] without a full understanding of his history of 
investing or his financial  understanding. How was this recommendation arrived  at? Indeed,  
[the] letter of 5 March 2017  admits that a SIPP "may  not have been  appropriate".
Again I dont think theres any doubt that the suitability of the SIPP was being  called  into 
question as part of the original complaint. 
I note what Mattioli Woods says about the adviser  having taken  with him some details 
relating to Mr R, including an attitude  to risk assessment. But I think  I can fairly decide  the 
complaint based  on what  Ive seen. I didnt share the investigators view that the SIPP  wasnt 
suitable as there was nothing to indicate Mr Rs attitude to risk had been assessed. I agreed  
there should be clear  evidence that Mr R's attitude to risk had been considered and, without 
that, it was difficult to say if a SIPP was suitable. But I went  on to explain why I thought Mr R 
could take some risk. I agreed with Mattioli  Woods the SIPP  wasnt unsuitable from the 
perspective of Mr Rs attitude to risk. And, given  he was looking to buy shares using his 
pension fund, he needed a pension vehicle, such as a SIPP,  that would allow  him to do that.
Ref: DRN62117554I did go on to express  concerns about the viability of the share purchase proposal and how 
advanced Mr Rs negotiations with his employer  were.  I was concerned about the timing of 
the matter and the fees that would be incurred, possibly for no result  which  is, in the end, 
what happened. 
Whether I thought the SIPP was suitable or not, that still leaves the problem  of the 
employers substantial contribution not being invested and when it seemed, from the 
recommendation letter, that any share purchase  might be some way off. I didnt  think Mr Rs 
need to be able to access the money  quickly if a share purchase was agreed justified the 
money remaining  in cash for what turned out to be a prolonged period. It could have been 
invested in readily  accessible  funds and disinvested if an agreement  was close  to being 
reached between  Mr R and his employer. Thats still my view.  
Mattioli Woods  says Mr R gave no investment  instructions  and he failed to complete and 
return the PMS agreement. I dont think thats the end of the matter. I think  it was up to the 
adviser to point out to Mr R that his fund would be eroded if it remained in cash.  It seems  
that Mr R was in regular contact with the adviser.  As Mattioli Woods points out, we cant  be 
sure exactly  what  was said. But I havent seen any clear evidence that investing the money 
in the interim was discussed with Mr R. Mattioli  Woods did point to letters  about possible 
investments. But those didnt refer specifically  to Mr Rs SIPP.  And Mr R has said no specific  
investment recommendations were made to him. 
Im not satisfied the consequences of leaving the money uninvested were brought  to Mr Rs 
attention  particularly as time went on and the share purchase still hadnt happened   and 
that he made an informed  choice to keep the money in cash. I think, if the adviser had 
recommended the contribution was invested  while the share purchase was being explored,  
Mr R would have followed that recommendation.  
Nor do I agree with what Mattioli Woods says about investment planning not being of 
primary concern to Mr R. The fact find recorded  that retirement planning was a priority for 
him. A failure to invest a substantial contribution  could impact  adversely on Mr Rs available  
fund at retirement. I think it fell under the heading  of retirement  planning. And I note the fact 
find indicated that Mattioli Woods review would cover all areas of financial planning needs 
as shown, except  those marked as not relevant. On that basis, investment planning would 
feature anyway, even  it if was Mr Rs second priority.  
I maintain the redress Ive suggested  is fair and reasonable.  Ive considered Mr Rs point 
about fees being refunded.  But I think the redress Ive suggested,  which doesnt make any 
adjustment for fees and means Mattioli Woods will retain the fees Mr R paid, is fair. I dont 
think Mr R is entitled to a refund  as well.
Mattioli Woods  will need to update the calculation to the date of actual payment (by bringing 
the loss figure of £14,166.44  up to date).  Mr R has told us that the redress  cant be paid into 
his pension plan as that would conflict with his annual allowance.  Mattioli Woods will need  to 
pay it direct  to Mr R after making the 15% deduction  Ive indicated. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Mattioli Woods Plc must  redress Mr R as Ive set out in my attached  
provisional decision and above. 
Ref: DRN62117555Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62117556PROVISIONAL DECISION dated 4 May 2020
complaint
Mr Rs complaint concerns  advice given by Mattioli Woods plc to set up a SIPP (self invested 
personal pension). Mr R is unhappy that his SIPP  fund wasnt invested. He also says hes been 
overcharged and hes suggested a SIPP wasnt suitable for him.  
background
Mr Rs SIPP was set up in early 2016 on advice  from Mattioli  Woods. Mr Rs employer made  a 
contribution of £80,000  in March 2016. That remained  in cash until May 2017 when, having appointed 
a new adviser, Mr Rs fund was transferred to an investment platform with a new provider.  
Mr R (through his representative) complained to Mattioli Woods in June 2017.  The amount transferred 
to the new provider was £73,981.57. So Mr R had been charged fees totalling  £6,018.43 over a 
sixteen month period, during  which time no investments had been made. Mr R wanted the fees 
refunded in full. 
His representative made  some further points, including that Mr R had been told fees would be capped 
at £1,500  pa; why a SIPP had been recommended; and why the transfer of funds  to the new provider  
had taken almost two months.  He said the general  poor level of service warranted a payment to Mr R 
for distress and time spent  in correcting  errors. 
In response Mattioli Woods said the contribution wasnt  invested  as Mr R hadnt completed and 
returned the Portfolio Management Service (PMS) Agreement. Access  to liquid funds was important 
as Mr R had expressed an interest in buying part of the business he worked for in the future. The fees 
had been charged in line with the client agreement. And the paperwork didnt  suggest fees were  
capped at £1,500.
Mr R wasnt  happy with that response and referred the complaint to us. An investigator reviewed  the 
complaint and said the fees charged  in relation to the management  of the fund were  fair as these  
were outlined in the client agreement. But more should have been  done to prompt  Mr R to invest so 
he may have  seen some growth. But we couldnt be sure how Mr R would have invested.  So she 
suggested Mattioli Woods should refund all the fees charged, except  those specifically for setting up 
and managing  the SIPP.  
Both parties made further comments which a new investigator  reviewed. She wrote to the parties  on 
25 June 2018 setting out her further findings. In summary  she said:
The recommendation to open a SIPP wasnt suitable. There  was no evidence that Mattioli 
Woods had assessed Mr Rs attitude to risk. And the fact find provided little evidence of his 
financial circumstances at the time. Theres a bit more detail  in the suitability  letter. It says the 
SIPP was recommended on the basis Mr R was negotiating  the ability to purchase a 
shareholding in the company he was working  for. 
About charges the Client Agreement says:  Time-costed fees are charged for all work relating 
to the basic and complex scheme administration  services needed to ensure the smooth 
running of the scheme in accordance with all legal and regulatory  requirements.  The 
reduction in Mr Rs fund appeared to be due to time costed  fees and it wasnt always 
appropriate for these to be taken from the pension  fund. 
To put things right Mr R should be put in the position hed be in if he hadnt invested  in a 
SIPP. Hed since  transferred  to a new personal pension. So Mattioli Wood should  calculate  
what Mr Rs current pension fund would  be now had the £80,000 been invested in the new 
plan as at the time the SIPP  was set up. If this amount is greater than £80,000, then Mattioli  
Woods should pay the difference,  taking account of any tax relief,  into Mr Rs pension fund.
Ref: DRN62117557Mattioli Woods appeared  to have charged for activities  that dont relate  to the pension  itself. It 
wasnt appropriate  for these fees to have been taken from Mr Rs pension fund. Should 
Mattioli Woods wish to invoice separately for these  costs it should  provide evidence of the 
work carried out so that the fees could  be reviewed in line with the Client Agreement. 
Mr R was pleased with that outcome. His representative said Mr Rs current  portfolio  (very  high risk) 
had achieved  growth of around 41% over the period. A payment into the pension was problematic  
Mr R had used his annual allowance and carry forward provisions. And confirmation of exactly  what  
fees would be refunded  was requested and whether that was in addition to investment  growth.
Mattioli Woods didnt  agree with the investigators assessment. In summary it said:
The SIPP  is a member led product and Mr R is a joint trustee. Mattioli  Woods  continued  to 
provide him with details of what it considered  were suitable investment  opportunities, it was 
up to Mr R to direct whether any fund movement should be made. He made  the decision not 
to invest  and that wasnt something Mattioli Woods  would ever try to enforce. 
Mr R had discussed holding  sufficient  cash  to enable the SIPP to buy shares  he held 
personally. Discussions had also taken place about purchasing a property.  Mattioli Woods 
understood that access to liquid  funds was important to him. If the funds  had been invested, 
they wouldnt have  been immediately accessible. And in any even without completion of the 
PMS agreement no investment could be made  and Mr R knew that. 
The original consultant had left and taken files with him. But it seemed Mr R was still using his 
services so it might be appropriate to contact him direct  to ask about the risk conversations he 
held. 
Wed said, in the absence  of any risk assessment,  theres nothing to suggest the SIPP or the 
intended investment was suitable. But neither was it possible to say it was unsuitable. And the 
original complaint was just about charges.  
If examples  of the charges for activities that didnt  relate  to the pension  itself could be 
provided it would look into them. 
Further information was needed to calculate the redress suggested. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Although I agree with the investigator that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld,  my views and reasons  
arent exactly the same.  And my approach  to redress differs too. So Im issuing a provisional  decision 
to give both parties  the opportunity to comment further. 
Ive thought first about if a SIPP was suitable for Mr R. The investigator  said it wasnt suitable  on the 
basis there was nothing  to indicate that Mr Rs attitude to risk had been assessed. I agree that there 
should be clear evidence that Mr Rs attitude to risk had been assessed and discussed. And without 
that its difficult to say that a SIPP was suitable. 
But the investigator  also said redress should be on the basis of the pension  plan Mr R had 
subsequently set up. I understand thats invested on a very high risk basis.  That plan was set up only 
was only some  eighteen months later. That would, in my view, tend to indicate that Mr Rs attitude  to 
risk, at the time the advice  was given,  was likely to be commensurate with establishing a SIPP  
medium or balanced  at least. And, looking at whats recorded about his overall  financial 
circumstances and taking into account his age, I think he was in a position  to take some risk. So Im 
not sure its right to say a SIPP wasnt suitable  just from an attitude to risk perspective. 
Ref: DRN62117558I also note that the recommendation letter dated 15 January 2016 records that Mr R was currently 
negotiating the ability to purchase a £100,000 shareholding  in the company  he worked for. The letter  
said that with a sophisticated pension structure (such  as a SIPP) that would be possible. Theres  
also mention  of Mr Rs partner joining  and so establishing a multi member family arrangement. Im 
not sure to what extent the latter was a real possibility.  But if Mr R was going to buy shares  using  his 
pension fund then a SIPP would be an appropriate pension vehicle to achieve  that. So, on that basis,  
a SIPP might  have been suitable for him. 
But Im not sure how viable the share purchase prospect  was, or how advanced Mr Rs negotiations 
with his company were. The SIPP was an expensive  option.  I dont think setting  it up to facilitate 
something that might  not even happen (and which  depended on a contribution from Mr Rs employer  
that had yet to be made) was justified. I note the recommendation letter records that the share  
purchase would be discussed in more  detail over the next twelve months. That doesnt indicate it had 
definitely been agreed and that Mr R needed to set up a pension plan immediately to accommodate 
that. 
So, all in all, Im not convinced that a SIPP was suitable  at the time it was recommended. 
Ive also looked at the whether there was a failure to advise Mr R to invest. The employers 
contribution, made  in mid March 2016, was substantial - £80,000. Even if the adviser thought it had 
been earmarked for to buy shares, its clear from what the adviser said in his recommendation letter  
that he didnt think any purchase was imminent. The adviser should  have recognised that, if the 
contribution wasnt invested,  Mr Rs fund would  simply be depleted  by fees.  
I dont agree with what Mattioli Woods has said about Mr R needing (immediate and ongoing) access 
to liquid  funds. Depending on where  the money was invested, it could have been made  available to 
Mr R relatively quickly  if his negotiations with his employer were  successful and the share purchase 
was agreed.  
Mattioli Woods has said that Mr R failed  to complete  and return the PMS agreement. But over the 
period Mr R was in contact with the adviser  (and a number of invoices were raised). I note what  
Mattioli Woods says about the SIPP being member led. But Mattioli Woods was also advising Mr R. I 
think it was up to the adviser to make  it clear to Mr R that his fund would  be eroded if it remained in 
cash. And, as time went on, the adviser  should have ensured  the lack of investment was brought to 
Mr Rs attention  and that hed made a conscious decision not to invest his fund,  rather  than simply 
having overlooked that. I havent seen anything to show the adviser did discuss the position with Mr R 
and the potential consequences of leaving the money not invested. 
The letters Ive seen which refer to possible investments were largely generic or not related to Mr Rs 
SIPP (ISA related for example). But from the fees charged and the meetings which  were held I think 
the adviser had plenty  of opportunity to point  out to Mr R the downside of his SIPP fund not being 
invested.  
Lastly Ive looked at the fees Mattioli Woods charged. From what  Ive seen  the following  charges were 
made (all including VAT):  
April 2016 £1,074 
November 2016 £2,395.62 
March 2017 £776.62 
April 2017 £1,497.94 
May 2017 £304 
In total, Mattioli Woods fees were £6,048.18 for a seventeen month period. That left Mr Rs SIPP fund 
balance at £73,951.82. The actual transfer value paid was slightly higher  £73,981.57  which is 
£29.75 more. Im not sure how that discrepancy  arose. 
Ref: DRN62117559Mr R signed a wealth management client agreement on 27 January 2016. It included some general 
information about fees. More specific information as to the level of fees in included in the Mattioli 
Woods SSAS/SIPP client  agreement which Mr R signed on the same date. The fee for establishing  
the SIPP  was clear - £895 plus VAT.  So thats the £1,074 charge shown above.  But if, as Ive said, 
the SIPP  wasnt suitable then Mr R wouldnt have  incurred that fee. Nor would have he have paid the 
annual scheme charges  of £587 plus VAT which were included in the fees charged.  Or the fee for 
transferring out  I assume that was the £304 in May 2017. 
Im not entirely  clear what exactly all the other charges  were  for. I think they were  the time costed fees 
mentioned in the agreement. The hourly  rate would  depend on the complexity and nature of the task 
and the experience of the person completing  the work. They  do seem high particularly when its 
unclear exactly what advice or other services were provided and when it seems Mattioli Woods  did 
recognise, following  the original advisers  departure, that some refund of fees was due. 
Overall fees totalling over £6,000 were  incurred  during a period of some seventeen months. I havent 
scrutinised the time costed fees in great detail. Thats because  the redress Ive suggested  whether  
on the basis the SIPP  wasnt suitable or because there was a failure to advise Mr R to invest   isnt 
adjusted to reflect the charges that have  been  levied. 
Where we suggest, as Ive done below, that a benchmark  is used, thats designed to reflect the sort of 
return the consumer might  have  got if a suitable investment had been made. It isnt an exact 
comparison and so we dont generally make any adjustment for fees and which would add a layer of 
complication to the redress calculation. The redress Ive proposed does return  to Mr R the full value of 
the employers contribution with an investment return. So I dont think  I need to spend more time 
examining the fees in any further detail.
Ive suggested redress should be based on what  Mr Rs employers contribution  of £80,000 (made on 
15 March  2016) would have been worth on 18 May 2017 which is when the SIPP fund was 
transferred and Mattioli  Woods  ceased to be Mr Rs adviser.  And Ive said that loss should be brought 
up to date using the same  benchmark.  
Thats different to what the investigator suggested.  Sometimes where we think  unsuitable advice had 
been given (or theres been a failure  to give advice)  we can say what an investor would have done 
instead. For example,  if the advice at the time focused  on a different investment as an alternative  
and we conclude  that the consumer would have chosen that (and we think  it would have  been 
suitable)  we might  tell the business to pay compensation as though the consumer  had made that 
investment instead. We will usually tell the business to calculate  compensation  based on what  the 
consumer would have  got from those  investments.
But most of the time it will be hard to say exactly what the consumer would have done differently and 
at that particular  time and when subsequent decisions  may have been based on different criteria and 
priorities or indeed, as here, advice from a new adviser. 
Where it isnt clear  what the consumer would  have  done  instead then wed probably award redress on 
an index basis. That also avoids  the need to seek information from third party providers  who arent  a 
party to the complaint. Mattioli Woods  has referred to the difficulty in calculating  the redress 
suggested by the investigator without information from Mr Rs current provider.  
I note Mr Rs current adviser has said that Mr R is currently adopting a very high risk investment 
strategy. My aim in redressing Mr R is to put him in the position  hed have been in if hed been given 
suitable advice. Im not sure that taking a very high risk strategy  would have been  appropriate. So I 
dont think redress should be awarded  on that basis. I think it would  be fairer, and in the absence of 
any clear  evidence  as to what Mr Rs attitude to risk was at the time,  to calculate  redress by reference 
to a benchmark  which  reflects  the sort of return a medium  or balanced investor  might have achieved 
during the relevant period.  
Ref: DRN621175510To that end Mattioli Woods must:
Calculate what £80,000 invested on 15 March  2016 would have  been worth on 18 May 2017 
had it achieved a return in line with the FTSE UK Private  Investor Income Total Return Index. 
Thats the index wed generally use as a proxy  for the sort of return  a medium  risk investor 
might achieve.
That loss should then be updated to the day of settlement using the same  index. 
If possible the redress  should  be paid into a pension  plan held by Mr R. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. But the compensation  shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance  (and I 
think Mr Rs representative had indicated that might be the case here).
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - 
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately 
reflects this.
To assist  the parties  weve  undertaken some  calculations  based on the above. Weve calculated that 
£80,000 invested on 15 March 2016 would have been worth £94,166.44 on 18 May 2017 had it 
achieved a return in line with the index Ive said. So thats a loss of £14,166.44. Adding a return using 
the same index (up to 28 April 2020 which is the date we did our calculation and will need updating  to 
the date of settlement/payment) adds an extra £3,339.89. So Mr Rs total loss is £17,506.33.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  the complaint and require  Mattioli Woods plc to redress Mr R as Ive set out above. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6211755