K822xcomplaint
Mr K has complained  that he received  unsuitable  advice  from LEBC  Group  Ltd, an 
appointed  representative  of TenetConnect  Limited  (Tenet).  In particular,  Mr K has said 
that, although  Fixed  Protection  (FP14)  was established  by that business  on his behalf,  
he was continuing  to contribute  to a personal  pension  plan (PPP).
These  ongoing  contributions  invalidated  the protection,  leaving  him with a potential  
liability  of over £300,000,  which  was only mitigated  by the involvement  of a different  
business.
Mr K has also said that he should  have  been  advised  to apply  for Individual  Protection  
(IP14)  at the same  time.
background 
I issued a second provisional decision on this case on 27 November 2020, in which  I said 
that I was minded to uphold the complaint.
That decision is attached,  and forms part of this final decision. In summary, I said that 
TenetConnect Limited should have done more to ensure that Mr Ks exposure  to any tax 
charge levied for breaching the Lifetime Allowance  (LTA) was appropriately mitigated.
To resolve  the matter, I said that TenetConnect Limited should refund the £2,500 advice  fee 
he paid it, with the addition of 8% pa simple interest from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement.
I also set out my proposed methodology for calculating  the redress  relating to the LTA 
charge as follows.
FP14  provided  a LTA of £1.5m,  but prohibited  further  contributions.  IP14  would  
have  protected  his pensions  savings  as at their value  on 5 April 2014,  but whilst  
further  accrual  could  have  occurred,  my understanding  was that he would  have  paid 
tax in the normal  way on any benefits  in excess  of his "personalised"  LTA set at that 
date.
But even  if he wouldn't  have  had the scope  for further  contributions,  Mr K would  have  
had the additional  headroom  for investment  growth.  So I thought  Tenet  should  pay to 
Mr K the tax that he would  need  to pay between  the protection  offered  by FP14  and 
IP14  - that is £1.5m  minus  the IP14  level  of £1,473,683.46.  This amounted  to £14,474.
Mr K also continued  to contribute  to his PPP beyond  5 April 2014,  at which  point  
FP14  was invalidated,  and even  under  IP14,  any additional  contributions  would  
have  been  subject  to the LTA tax charge.
I thought  that, had Mr K known  this, he would  have  redirected  those  pension  
contributions  elsewhere  rather  than facing  the LTA charge.
I said that, to compensate  Mr K for the loss equating  to the unnecessary  LTA tax 
charge  on the contributions  which  he continued  to make  would  involve  quite  
complicated  calculations  involving  projected  fund values  at the time Mr K is likely  to 
take the benefits.  But as the contribution  amount  was relatively  small,  for the sake  of 
Ref: DRN68908022simplicity  and speed  of resolution,  I proposed  an alternative  additional  payment  to Mr 
K amounting  to 55% (the LTA tax charge  he'll pay) of the total amount  Mr K continued  
to contribute  to his PPP beyond  the (retrospective)  establishment  of his personalised  
LTA on 5 April 2014.
I also thought  it was fair to say that Mr K would  have  been  caused  not inconsiderable  
stress  and anxiety  when  realising  that FP14  had been  invalidated  and that, without  
intervention  and needing  to pay a further  fee, a significant  tax bill could  follow.  And so 
I thought  that an additional  payment  of £250  was warranted  in this instance.
Mr K accepted my proposal. TenetConnect Limited said it had no further comments to make 
on the merits of the case, but said the following in relation to the proposed  redress:
There was no guarantee that Mr K would incur  the tax charge I had suggested, and it 
didnt therefore  think that it should  compensate  Mr K for a loss which hadnt  occurred.
Whilst it appreciated the simplicity of the proposal in respect of the payments into the 
PPP, it couldnt see that the fact that these  would  have  otherwise been subject to 
income tax had been taken into account.
At my request,  the investigator  contacted  TenetConnect  Limited  to explain  that its 
comments  suggested  that the proposed  simplified  manner  of calculating  redress,  and 
which  I considered  would  resolve  the matter  sooner,  might  not be appropriate  here.  
And that an alternative,  possibly  more  complex,  manner  of redress  might  therefore  be 
needed  to determine  loss.
The investigator  sought  its confirmation  as to whether  it wished  to accept  my existing  
simplified  proposal,  or whether  an alternative  should  be used,  in which  case  I said I 
would  write  further  to both parties  setting  out my further  thoughts  on this.
TenetConnect  Limited  has responded  to confirm  that it was prepared  to accept  the 
simplified  proposal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has submitted further comments on the merits of the complaint, and 
TenetConnect Limited has accepted  the proposed principle of calculating  redress,  my view 
remains that the complains should be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional  
decision, and that redress should  be calculated as set out in that decision, and as reiterated 
above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  TenetConnect Limited should calculate  and 
pay redress to Mr K as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Ref: DRN68908023Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68908024COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr K has complained  that he received  unsuitable  advice  from LEBC  Group  Ltd, an appointed  
representative  of TenetConnect  Limited  (Tenet).  In particular,  Mr K has said that, although  Fixed  
Protection  (FP14)  was established  by that business  on his behalf,  he was continuing  to contribute  
to a personal  pension  plan (PPP).
These  ongoing  contributions  invalidated  the protection,  leaving  him with a potential  liability  of over 
£300,000,  which  was only mitigated  by the involvement  of a different  business.
Mr K has also said that he should  have  been  advised  to apply  for Individual  Protection  (IP14)  at 
the same  time.
background
I issued  my provisional  findings  on this matter  on 21 July 2020.  The content  of that decision  is set 
out below,  which  begins  with the background  to Mr K's complaint.
"In April 2014,  Tenet  assessed  Mr K's pension  situation  and recommended  that he apply  for 
Fixed  Protection  (FP14).  This would  give him a protected  lifetime  allowance  (LTA)  of £1.5m,  but 
the maintenance  of that protection  was conditional  on no further  pension  savings  being  made.  Mr 
K agreed  to pay a £2,500  fee to Tenet  for the advice.
Unfortunately,  it later transpired  that Mr K had been  continuing  to make  a relatively  minor  
contribution  to a PPP - albeit  one which  invalidated  the protection  which  had been  put in 
place.
Mr K received  advice  from a further  business  which  sought  to mitigate  a potentially  significant  
tax charge  of approximately  £322,000  by applying  for IP14.  This effectively  provided  protection  
for the value  of Mr K's pension  funds  as at 5 April 2014.  But Mr K paid £5,000  to that business.  
in addition  to the £2,500  paid to Tenet  for the advice  received  in April 2014.
Mr K's view is that Tenet  should  have  realised  that he was continuing  pension  contributions  in 
2014,  and that it failed  to undertake  sufficient  checks  to ensure  that this wasn't  the case.  He 
noted  that he wasn't  issued  with a suitability  report,  which  could  have  alerted  him to the fact 
that he needed  to ensure  no further  pension  contributions  were  made.  He therefore  feels  that 
Tenet  should  refund  the advice  fee it charged  him, along  with the advice  fee the subsequent  
business  charged  to correct  the position.
Mr K has also sought  compensation  for the difference  between  the protection  he has of
£1.47m  with IP14  and that which  he would  have  had through  FP14  of £1.5m.  Mr K further  
considers  that a payment  in respect  of the distress  and worry  this has caused  him is properly  
due.
Tenet  initially  objected  to this service  considering  the complaint  on the basis  that Mr K had 
referred  it more  than six months  after its final response  letter  of January  2017.  Tenet  
subsequently  confirmed  its consent  to us considering  the matter,  although  it said the 
complaint  points  were  slightly  different  from those  in its further  final response  of May 2017.
The adjudicator  considered  the complaint  points  were  effectively  the same  issues  as those  
first raised  by Mr K and that, having  given  consent.  Tenet  couldn't  rescind  it. I note that no 
further  objection  to our considering  the matter  has been  raised.
Ref: DRN68908025Our investigation
An adjudicator  assessed  Mr K's complaint  and issued  his findings  in March  2018.  In 
summary,  he said the following:
 Tenet  wrote  to Mr K twice  in March  2014,  initially  about  the forthcoming  changes  in the 
LTA and then again  providing  the HMRC  application  form for FP14.
 Although  Mr K had no recollection  of completing  the "fact finds"  held on record  by   Tenet  
from October  2013,  given  some  of the detail  contained  therein  (including  the outstanding  
mortgage  and expenditure  amounts)  he was persuaded  that they must  have  had input  from 
Mr K.
 Both  fact finds  held details  of Mr K's pension  plans.  but didn't  record  the PPP in 
question.
 Although  there  existed  an accountant's  report  from 2000,  of which  the adviser  was 
aware  at the time,  it wasn't  reasonable  for the same  adviser  to have  remembered  detail  
from that report  - especially  given  that he was working  for another  business  at that time.
 Although  there  was no suitability  report  from April 2014,  which  Tenet  had conceded  
should  have  been  sent.  this didn't  necessarily  mean  that it had failed  in its duty to give 
suitable  advice  to Mr K.
Mr K emailed  Tenet  in September  2013  to check  his pension  contributions.  to which  it replied  
that he had made  no pension  contributions  in the last tax year,  nor were  there  any new or 
ongoing  payments.  It was reasonable  to assume  that it had checked  its records  before  
confirming  this to Mr K.
The adjudicator  therefore  concluded  that Tenet  wasn't  reasonably  aware  of the 
ongoing  contributions  to the PPP.
Regarding  Mr K's complaint  that Tenet  hadn't  advised  him to apply  for IP14  at the same  
time,  the adjudicator  noted  that this wasn't  an option  at the time FP14  was applied  for- 
but that Tenet  would  have  revisited  this possibility  at the appropriate  time.
As IP14  had subsequently  been  applied  for through  the new business.  Mr K had 
suffered  no financial  loss.
Mr K disagreed,  however,  saying  the following:
Although  Tenet  wrote  to him in March  2014  about  the changes  in the LTA.  this was "at best 
at flyer",  followed  by a covering  letter  and the application  to complete  and forward  to HMRC.  
This couldn't  be deemed  to be adhering  to the requirements  of an advice  process.  
particularly  when  there  was no letter  of recommendation.
It was an extremely  complicated  piece  of advice,  which  would  have  had a significant  impact  
on Mr K's financial  future.  Had a letter  of recommendation  been  issued,  it would  have  
included  a warning  about  the importance  of ensuring  no further  pension  contributions  were  
made.  This would  have  triggered  a discussion  with the adviser  and a full review  of Mr K's 
records.
Although  the fact finds  were  completed  by the adviser,  this was without  his input  and the 
details  contained  in them  were  wrong.  It was also queried  as to how the adviser  would  have  
remembered  his personal  details  such  as date of birth and postcode,  without  having  access  
to previous  records.  The adviser  had full knowledge  of Mr K's affairs  when  he moved  to 
Tenet  in 2000  - and it was disingenuous  to suggest  that he moved  companies  without  Mr 
K's information.
Mr K's tax return  for 1999/2000  was completed  in October  2000  and passed  to Tenet  
afterwards.  It would  therefore  have  had the relevant  information  to be able to advise  him 
appropriately.
Ref: DRN68908026Mr K had always  been  a client  of the same  business  - it just changed  networks.  so any 
suggestion  that it wouldn't  have  had access  to his information  was incorrect.
Mr K also queried  as to why Tenet  would  have  been  in touch  later on regarding  IP14,  if it 
believed  that FP14  was in place  and fit for purpose.
The case  was then considered  by another  adjudicator,  who set out his findings  as follows:
Two different  copies  of the same  fact find dated  31 October  2013  had been  provided  to 
this service.  Tenet  had confirmed  that the updated  version  of the document  had been  
created  on 6 February  2014.
This raised  concerns  about  the audit  trail of an updated  version  which  hadn't  been  re- dated  as 
a later document.  Any revisions  should  have  been  noted  as and when  they were  made.  
However,  the adjudicator  said that the updated  information  wasn't  significant  for the purposes  
of assessing  the complaint.
It was clear,  though,  that the adviser  hadn't  documented  full information  about  Mr K and all 
of his pension  arrangements  before  providing  advice  for the £2,500  fee.
As Mr K had been  a client  of the same  adviser  since  1996,  albeit  with different  networks.  
he would  have  had access  to Mr K's pension  details.  but failed  to keep  them  properly  
documented.
Alternatively,  if the adviser  didn't  retain  information  about  Mr K after moving  
networks.  a full fact find should  have  taken  place.
The adjudicator  acknowledged  that an adviser  could  only rely on the information  he 
received  from a client.  and it appeared  Mr K had forgotten  about  the policy.
But he wasn't  satisfied  that the adviser  carried  out sufficient  checks  to satisfy  the 
regulatory  requirement  of knowing  his client.
There  was also a requirement  for regulated  advice  to be confirmed  in writing.  And for a 
fee of £2,500,  Mr K was entitled  to receive  confirmation  as to why the proposed  course  
of action  was suitable  for him - along  with any relevant  risk warnings.  This should  have  
included  the warning  that further  pension  contributions  would  invalidate  FP14.
For these  reasons.  the adjudicator  recommended  that the complaint  be upheld.  He said 
that, but for the business  error,  FP14  would  still be in place.  And so appropriate  
compensation  would  be a comparison  of the tax liability  Mr K would  now have  under  IP14  
and that which  he would  have  had under  FP14.  If that produced  a loss.  payment  should  
ideally  be made  into Mr K's pension,  or if not possible,  paid to him directly  with the 
deduction  of notional  income  tax at his projected  marginal  rate in retirement.
The adjudicator  also said that the original  £2,500  shouldn't  be refunded  as the purpose  
of the redress  comparison  was to rectify  any loss caused  by the shortfall  in the advisory  
process.  Nor did he recommend  that Tenet  contribute  to the subsequent  fee Mr K paid to 
his new advising  business.
However,  he did think  that Mr K should  be paid £600  plus VAT for further  advice  he'd 
need  to seek  in respect  of the LTA.
He also recommended  a further  payment  of £250  in respect  of the trouble  caused  to Mr K 
in this matter.
Mr K responded  to say that, whilst  he broadly  accepted  the adjudicator's  view,  he 
thought  that he should  be refunded  the fee he'd paid for the advice  from  Tenet,  as he'd 
needed  to pay a further  fee to a new business  to assist  him rectifying  the error.
Tenet  disagreed  with the adjudicator's  findings  and requested  that the matter  be referred  
to an ombudsman  for review.  It said the following:
Ref: DRN68908027It ceased  to be the servicing  agent  for Mr K's PPP  in question  in 2013.  It was 
therefore  reliant  upon  him disclosing  whether  he continued  to contribute  to the plan.
Mr K was advised  to stop pension  contributions  in November  2010  and this was 
reiterated  a number  of times.  It was unreasonable  to conclude  that Tenet  should  
have  any knowledge  of contributions  which  continued  to be made  against  that 
advice.
If the complaint  was upheld,  the redress  should  place  Mr K in the position  he would  
have  been  in had he secured  his LTA by ceasing  to make  pension  contributions  as 
advised  by Tenet.  He shouldn't  then need  further  advice  if redress  was awarded  
and he was returned  to the position  in which  he should  have  been.
Tenet  also added  comments  from  the adviser  concerned,  as follows:
The adviser  left his old employer  in 2000  to start his own venture.  He would  not 
therefore  have  had continued  access  to the client  files which  were  the property  of the 
previous  employer.
It wasn't  reasonable  to suggest  that he would  have  recalled  from memory  all of the 
pension  plans  which  each  of his clients  held after he moved  from that company.
The adviser  would  have  needed  to start from scratch  and it was clear  that a number  of 
fact finds  had occurred  on a number  of occasions.  It was also clear  that Mr K never  made  
Tenet  aware  of the existence  of the PPP in question.
The adjudicator  had commented  that Mr K had himself  forgotten  about  the PPP.  Tenet  
would  therefore  have  had no way of learning  of its existence,  despite  undergoing  
factfinding  with Mr K. It didn't  accept  that there  was anything  else it could  have  done  to 
learn  of its existence.
And so. from a causation  perspective,  there  was no way for Tenet  to have  ensured  
that the contributions  ceased.
The adjudicator  considered  Tenet's  comments.  but wasn't  persuaded  to change  his 
opinion.  Therefore  the complaint  has been  referred  to me for review.
my provisional  findings
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  I'm required  by the Financial  Services  and Markets  Act 
2000  (FSMA)  and DISP  to determine  the complaint  by reference  to what  is. in my opinion,  fair 
and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of the complaint.
When  considering  what's  fair and reasonable,  I need  to take into account  relevant:  law and 
regulations;  regulators'  rules.  guidance,  standards,  and codes  of practice;  and, where  
appropriate,  what  I consider  to have  been  good  industry  practice  at the time.
Mr K wrote  to Tenet  in 2013  to enquire  as to whether  he was making  any pension  
contributions.  Tenet  confirmed  that he wasn't.  It's not clear  what  information  this was 
based  upon,  and it's possible  to enter  into a rather  circular  argument  was to who was 
relying  upon  accurate  information  from whom.
Certainly  a business  can only rely upon  the information  which  is offered  by a consumer  when  
making  recommendations.  But there  was clearly  uncertainty  here on Mr K's part. He was 
unsure  as to what  contributions  he was making,  and it was Tenet  who'd  confirmed  that he 
wasn't  making  contributions.  Therefore,  even  if Mr K had been  aware  in April 2014  of the 
importance  of not making  any further  contributions  to avoid  invalidating  FP14,  it's reasonable  
to assume  that he would  think  this wasn't  possible  due to the information  he'd been  given  by 
Tenet  just months  before.
Ref: DRN68908028Mr K has said that the adviser  ought  to have  been  aware  of the existence  of the PPP in 
question  as there  was evidence  that he would  have  known  about  it many  years  previously  
when  information  was shared  between  the adviser  and Mr K's accountant.  It's further  been  
argued  that, even  when  the adviser  changed  networks/employers.  this is information  which  
would  have  been  transferred  across.
I'm not particularly  persuaded  that an adviser  who would  be dealing  with many  different  
clients  would  necessarily  have  remembered  the specific  pension  details  of one of his 
clients.  or that relying  on information  several  years  out of date would  have  been  a 
reasonable  course  of action.
But he didn't  need  to - up to date and robust  fact finding  should  have  taken  place  at the 
time of providing  advice  in 2014.
So I've therefore  thought  carefully  about  what  happened  in 2014  and the actual  amount  Mr K 
paid to Tenet  for the service  he received.  £2,500  wasn't  an insubstantial  sum,  and I think  for 
that, and given  the potentially  disastrous  effect  on his protection  if pension  contributions  were  
still being  made,  both a thorough  check  into his current  situation  relating  to pension  
contributions  and a letter  outlining  the advice  and absolute  necessity  to ensure  that no further  
pension  contributions  were  made  was the least  Mr K ought  to have  been  entitled  to expect  - 
and the latter  was a regulatory  requirement.
But unfortunately,  both were  absent.  And the consequences.  but for the intervention  of 
the subsequent  business.  could  have  been  significant  for Mr K.
I've noted  Tenet's  comments  about  Mr K being  told on several  occasions  to stop contributing  
to his pensions.  But I don't  think  the way that this was put to Mr K. certainly  in any 
documented  form which  I've seen,  was particularly  compelling.  For example  in the letter  some  
4 years  before  in November  2010,  Tenet  told Mr K that there  was "no benefit"  to him 
continuing  to contribute  to his pension  policies.  This is quite  different  in terms  of impact  from 
telling  Mr K that, unless  he stopped  contributing,  he'd have  a tax bill of over £300,000  to pay.
And I don't  think  that the initial  invitation  letter,  enclosing  the fact sheet  relating  to LTA 
issues.  was sufficient  to have  alerted  Mr K to the potential  issues  associated  with 
continuing  pension  contributions.
So overall,  I think  Tenet  should  have  done  more  to ensure  that Mr K wasn't  
continuing  his pension  contributions.
What  does  Tenet  need  to do?
I've though  carefully  about  how Mr K might  fairly  and reasonably  be compensated  for 
Tenet's  failings  here.  The fact is that he paid £2,500  to Tenet  for advice  which  fell short  of 
both his expectations  and regulatory  requirements.  It did do some  work  on Mr K's behalf,  
and FP14  was established.  But this was then invalidated  by the continuing  pension  
contributions.  So the net value  of Tenet's  service  to Mr K was effectively  nil - for a payment  
of £2,500.  And Mr K had to then apply  for IP14  through  a different  business.
I haven't  seen  detail  of the actual  proportion  of the £5,000  paid to that business  which  was 
dedicated  to establishing  IP14  on Mr K's behalf.  but I don't  think  I need  to. Irrespective  of the 
amount  paid to the second  business.  Mr K needed  to pay for LTA protection  twice.  And as the 
first payment  to Tenet  resulted  in no tangible  benefit  to him. my current  view is that Tenet  
should  refund  this to him. with the addition  of interest  at 8% simple  pa from the date it was paid 
to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN68908029As IP14  is now established,  there  should  be no requirement  for further  financial  
advice  relating  to this.
Mr K has also said that he should  be compensated  for the difference  between  the
£1.5m  protection  offered  by FP14  and that amounting  to the value  of his pension  
benefits  as at 5 April 2014  offered  by IP14.
FP14  provided  a LTA of £1.5m,  but prohibited  further  contributions.  IP14  would  have  
protected  his pensions  savings  as at their value  on 5 April 2014,  but whilst  further  accrual  
could  have  occurred,  my understanding  is that he would  have  paid tax in the normal  way 
on any benefits  in excess  of his "personalised"  LTA set at that date.  So I don't  think  Mr K 
has lost out by having  IP14  instead  of FP14-  both had ramifications  for pension  benefit  
accrual  beyond  that which  had already  occurred.
But Mr K did nevertheless  continue  to contribute  to his PPP beyond  5 April 2014,  at which  
point  FP14  was invalidated,  and even  under  IP14,  any additional  contributions  would  have  
been  subject  to the LTA tax charge.
I think,  had Mr K known  this, he would  have  redirected  those  pension  contributions  
elsewhere  rather  than facing  the LTA charge.
To compensate  Mr K for the loss equating  to the unnecessary  LTA tax charge  on the 
contributions  which  he continued  to make  would  involve  quite  complicated  calculations  
involving  projected  fund values  at the time Mr K is likely  to take the benefits.  But as the 
contribution  amount  was relatively  small,  and for sake  of simplicity  and speed  of resolution,  I 
propose  an alternative  additional  payment  to Mr K amounting  to 55% (the LTA tax charge  hell 
pay) of the total amount  Mr K continued  to contribute  to his PPP beyond  the (retrospective)  
establishment  of his personalised  LTA on 5 April 2014.
Finally,  I think  it's fair to say that Mr K will have  been  caused  not inconsiderable  stress  and 
anxiety  when  realising  that that FP14  had been  invalidated  and that, without  intervention  and 
needing  to pay a further  fee, a significant  tax bill could  follow.  And so I think  the additional  
payment  of £250  is warranted  in this instance."
Mr K responded  to my provisional  findings,  saying  the following  in summary:
He accepted  the proposal  that the fee he had paid would  be reimbursed,  although  he 
commented  that this would  only be a proportion  of the fee he paid to the new advising  firm for 
the advice  which  led to the realisation  about  the LTA issue.
He was also satisfied  that 55% of the pension  contribution  would  be repaid  to him.
But Mr K wasn't  satisfied  that he wouldn't  be compensated  for what  he considered  to be the 
actual  financial  loss he'd suffered  due to the business'  errors  - and this was the difference  in 
the tax that he would  need  to pay between  the protection  offered  by FP14  and IP14  - that is 
£1.5m  minus  the IP14  level  of £1,473,683.46.
Mr K said that the £26,316.54  difference  between  the two levels  of protection  would  then be 
taxed  at 55%,  which  produced  an actual  loss of £14,474.
Tenet  also responded  to my provision  decision  in the following  terms:
It noted  that its first case  handler  had said on 8 January  2018,  that "we are of the opinion  that 
this is outside  the six month  referral  period  ... therefore  Mr K's complaint  cannot  be 
considered  by your service".
Ref: DRN689080210Our adjudicator  then requested  a letter  dated  31 May 2017  upon  which  the "timebar"  argument  
was based,  and this was provided  on 17 January  2018.  But rather  than making  a decision  on 
the issue  of the timebar,  this service  then emailed  Tenet  to enquire  as to whether  it was 
retracting  its objection  to us considering  the matter.
On 17 January  2018,  an "administrator"  replied  that "based  on our second  response  letter,  
this complaint  was referred  within  6 months."  However,  this wasn't  an explicit  provision  of 
consent.
Tenet  said that it wasn't  the responsibility  of its administrators  to make  these  judgement  calls 
and that this should  have  been  referred  back  to its Complaints  Officer.  It was unfair  of our 
adjudicator  to accept  this as confirmation  that Tenet  was withdrawing  the timebar.
It was Tenet's  view that a view on jurisdiction  should  have  been  issued,  and it queried  as to 
why it would  have  consented  to us looking  at the complaint  if a timebar  was applicable.
It conceded  that "this was subsequently  missed",  but it said that consent  for us to consider  
the complaint  had never  been  explicitly  given  at any other  time.
Tenet's  position  therefore  was that it didn't  consent  to this service  considering  the complaint  
on the basis  of its timebar  argument.
With regard  to my findings  on the merits  of the complaint,  Tenet  said that, with regard  to 
knowledge  of the continuing  contributions,  it could  only have  given  back  to Mr K the information  
that he himself  had previously  provided.  It wasn't  possible  for Tenet  to obtain  information  which  
hadn't  been  provided  by him.
It was therefore  reasonable  for it to have  relied  on the information  provided  in the 2012  fact 
find and during  previous  discussions  - and these  demonstrated  that Mr K hadn't  previously  
disclosed  the continuing  contributions.  And only Mr K could  have  known  that he was making  
them  by checking  his bank  statements.
Emails  from 2016  had been  found  which  demonstrated  where  the information  came  from,  
and Tenet  attached  a list of the policies  from the system  record.  This showed  the products  Mr 
K either  established  through  Tenet  or had disclosed  from 2014  onwards.  And the policy  
premium  in question  didn't  appear.
It was Tenet's  further  argument  that both the 2013  and 2014  fact finds  were  robustly  completed  
and made  no mention  of the pension  contribution  in question.  The last fact find on the file was 
dated  31 October  2013  and the advice  was provided  less than six months  later.  The email  from 
2014  demonstrated  that Mr K wasn't  aware  of the continuing  contribution  at this point,  as well 
as in 2012  and 2013,  and so any fact find created  in 2014  would  again  have  omitted  this 
information.
Therefore  the end result  would  have  been  the same.  But the fact find from October  2013  
couldn't  in any case  be characterised  as "manifestly  out of date,  inaccurate  or incomplete"  as 
per the COBS  9.2.5.
Tenet  also contended  that, whilst  there  was no documentary  evidence  to confirm  this, its 
adviser  maintained  that Mr K was verbally  informed  in a compelling  fashion  on multiple  
occasions  that he should  cease  pension  contributions.
As the matter  of our jurisdiction  to consider  this complaint  has been  raised,  I need  to issue  a 
further  provisional  decision  to consider  and address  those  points.  But I'll also take the 
opportunity  to address  the other  points  raised  by both parties.
my further  provisional  findings
With regard  firstly  to the objection  tenet  has raised  to us considering  the complaint,  on the basis  
of timeliness  grounds,  I find the substance  of that objection  to be both surprising  - and indeed  
novel.
It seems  to be Tenet's  position  that this service  shouldn't  accept  the "judgement  call" of its 
"administrator"  to consider  the complaint.  But the logical,  or I'm afraid,  somewhat  less than 
Ref: DRN689080211logical,  conclusion  of this is that this service  would  be in the rather  invidious  position  of 
needing  to second  guess  whether  individuals  who purport  to represent  Tenet  in fact have  
Tenet's  authority  to do so.
It isn't the job of this service  to do this. There  was no reason  for the adjudicator  to think  that the 
"administrator",  or rather,  to provide  the full title of that individual  - "complaints  resolution  
administrator"  - wasn't  authorised  to provide  consent.  We're  entitled  to accept  confirmation  of 
consent  from a representative  of Tenet,  and we can't  be expected  to have  knowledge  of the 
internal  governance  within  businesses  and/or  challenge  whether  a particular  individual  has the 
authority  to provide  that consent.
Tenet's  further  position  is that it was unfair  for our adjudicator  to have  accepted  the comment  
made  by its complaints  resolution  administrator  - "based  on our second  response  letter,  this 
complaint  was referred  to your service  within  6 months"  - as indicating  consent.  And that the 
adjudicator  should  have  issued  a view on the matter  of jurisdiction.  But my first comment  on 
this would  be that, where  the initial  objection  was raised  on the basis  of the six month  period  
being  exceeded,  and we then receive  confirmation  from a representative  of Tenet  that its 
position  was now that the complaint  had been  referred  to us within  six months,  it's an entirely  
reasonable  interpretation  that this confirms  a change  in that position  - and that the position  is 
now consent  for us to look at the complaint.
And if consent  is given,  there  is obviously  no need  for an adjudicator  to then express  an 
opinion  on the matter  of jurisdiction.  But I've in any case  carefully  considered  the chain  of 
communication  which  occurred  here.  In response  to Tenet's  initial  objection,  our adjudicator  
said that he'd noted  a letter  from Tenet  dated  26 June  2017  which  confirmed  that Mr K had six 
months  from the date of its letter  dated  31 May 2017  in which  to refer  his complaint  to us - 
rather  than six months  from the date of the "first"  final response,  which  was 12 January  2017.  
He therefore  requested  a copy  of the May 2017  letter.
Once  he'd been  provided  with that letter,  which  was entitled  "Final  Decision  Letter"  and 
unambiguously  provided  a further  six months  in which  Mr K could  make  his referral  to us, he 
then enquired  as to whether  Tenet  was "therefore  retracting  (its) time-bar  request  on Mr K's 
complaint".  And whilst  I don't  think  semantics  matter  too much  here,  the use of the word  
"therefore"  indicates  that this enquiry  is based  upon  the content  of both that letter,  which  
reiterated  and extended  the six month  referral  period,  and the follow  up letter  in June  2017  
which  confirmed  this. This was Tenet's  opportunity  to either  provide  the consent  the adjudicator  
sought,  for reasons  which  he would  have  quite  reasonably  have  considered  to be self-
explanatory  - and notably  with which  Tenet's  complaints  resolution  administrator  also appears  
to have  agreed  - or to decline  consent  and provide  further  reasons  for this.
As it was,  consent  was provided.  And this also doesn't  appear  to have  been  an unconsidered  
response.  The complaints  resolution  administrator  had clearly  thought  about  the matter,  to 
the extent  that he wished  the adjudicator  to note that the complaint  points  addressed  by 
Tenet  in the second  final response  letter  of May 2017  differed  slightly  from those  in the earlier  
letter.
Tenet  has also queried  as to why it would  consent  to looking  at the complaint  if it was 
timebarred,  and has said that consent  wasn't  given  "at any other  time".
But the simple  fact remains  that, as I've said above,  and for reasons  which  in fact appear  to be 
quite  reasonable,  it did consent  to us looking  at the complaint.  Furthermore,  we don't  need  
multiple  instances  of consent  being  given  to look at a complaint,  and I'm unsure  as to how 
Tenet  has acquired  the notion  that any such  requirement  exists  - and for that matter,  just how 
many  instances  of consent  being  given  might  be considered  sufficient.  And for additional  
Ref: DRN689080212clarity  here in case  any doubt  exists,  in accordance  with DISP  2.8.2a  (R), once  given,  consent  
cannot  be withdrawn.
I'm therefore  satisfied  that this complaint  is one we can look at.
I've then reconsidered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  - pertaining  to the merits  of the 
case  - to decide  what's  fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
To firstly  address  Mr K's further  comments,  I'm inclined  to agree  with his point  about  the 
actual  loss incurred.  My previous  findings  were  based  upon  there  being  no scope  for further  
contributions  to the plan.  But this didn't  factor  in the additional  headroom  there  would  have  
been  under  FP14  for an increase  in the value  of the pension  funds.  And on a plan valued  at 
nearly  £1.5m,  I think  it could  reasonably  be assumed  that it was likely  that its value  would  
increase  beyond  that threshold.
Turning  then to the further  points  made  by Tenet,  it has said that it could  only give Mr K the 
information  that he had himself  provided.  But as I said in my previous  decision,  Mr K had 
enquired  of Tenet  as to what  pensions  he was contributing.  This clearly  spoke  to uncertainty  
on his part on this matter.  But instead  of suggesting  that he make  further  enquiries,  for 
example  closely  examining  his bank  statements  to reconcile  all payments  with known  
recipients,  or assist  him in doing  so, Tenet  simply  confirmed  that he wasn't.
I don't  think  this was good  enough,  especially  when  the consequences  of getting  this wrong  
could  have  been  so significant.  And this is what  I mean  by robust  fact finding.  The clear  
suggestion  was that Mr K was unsure  of whether  he was making  contributions.  And a robust  
and appropriate  response  about  needing  to look into this more  carefully  would  have  revealed  
that he was.  At the very least,  Tenet  should  have  said that its confirmation  was based  upon  
information  which  Mr K had himself  provided.
I've also noted  Tenet's  comment  about  Mr K having  been  told verbally,  and in a compelling  
fashion,  on a number  of occasions  that he needed  to stop contributions.  But whilst  this may 
have  been  the case,  I nevertheless  think  that seeing  this in writing,  in stark  terms  which  might  
also have  outlined  the tax consequences,  rather  than being  told that there  was "no benefit"  to 
continuing  contributions,  would  have  had a greater  impact.
So I still think  the combination  of Mr K being  reassured  that he wasn't  making  pension  
contributions  and the lack of compelling  written  warning  as to the consequences  of doing  so 
has resulted  in the losses  he's incurred.
What  does  Tenet  need  to do?
This section  largely  mirrors  my conclusions  in the last decision,  but with an 
important  amendment.
I've though  carefully  about  how Mr K might  fairly  and reasonably  be compensated  for 
Tenet's  failings  here.  The fact is that he paid £2,500  to Tenet  for advice  which  fell short  of 
both his expectations  and regulatory  requirements.  It did do some  work  on Mr K's behalf,  
and FP14  was established.  But this was then invalidated  by the continuing  pension  
contributions.  So the net value  of Tenet's  service  to Mr K was effectively  nil - for a payment  
of £2,500.  And Mr K had to then apply  for IP14  through  a different  business.
I haven't  seen  detail  of the actual  proportion  of the £5,000  paid to that business  which  was 
dedicated  to establishing  IP14  on Mr K's behalf,  but I don't  think  I need  to. Irrespective  of the 
amount  paid to the second  business,  Mr K needed  to pay for LTA protection  twice.  And as 
the first payment  to Tenet  resulted  in no tangible  benefit  to him, my current  view is that Tenet  
Ref: DRN689080213should  refund  this to him, with the addition  of interest  at 8% simple  pa from the date it was 
paid to the date of settlement.
As IP14  is now established,  there  should  be no requirement  for further  financial  
advice  relating  to this.
Mr K has also said that he should  be compensated  for the difference  between  the £1.5m  
protection  offered  by FP14  and that amounting  to the value  of his pension  benefits  as at 5 
April 2014  offered  by IP14.
FP14  provided  a LTA of £1.5m,  but prohibited  further  contributions.  IP14  would  have  
protected  his pensions  savings  as at their value  on 5 April 2014,  but whilst  further  accrual  
could  have  occurred,  my understanding  is that he would  have  paid tax in the normal  way on 
any benefits  in excess  of his "personalised"  LTA set at that date.
But as I've said above,  even  if he wouldn't  have  had the scope  for further  contributions,  Mr K 
would  have  had the additional  headroom  for investment  growth.  So I think  Tenet  should  pay to 
Mr K the tax that he would  need  to pay between  the protection  offered  by FP14  and IP14  - that 
is £1.5m  minus  the IP14  level  of £1,473,683.46.  This amounts  to £14,474.
Mr K also continued  to contribute  to his PPP beyond  5 April 2014,  at which  point  FP14  was 
invalidated,  and even  under  IP14,  any additional  contributions  would  have  been  subject  to 
the LTA tax charge.
As with my previous  decision,  I think  had Mr K known  this, he would  have  redirected  
those  pension  contributions  elsewhere  rather  than facing  the LTA charge.
To compensate  Mr K for the loss equating  to the unnecessary  LTA tax charge  on the 
contributions  which  he continued  to make  would  involve  quite  complicated  calculations  
involving  projected  fund values  at the time Mr K is likely  to take the benefits.  But as the 
contribution  amount  was relatively  small,  and for sake  of simplicity  and speed  of resolution,  I 
propose  an alternative  additional  payment  to Mr K amounting  to 55% (the LTA tax charge  
he'll pay) of the total amount  Mr K continued  to contribute  to his PPP beyond  the 
(retrospective)  establishment  of his personalised  LTA on 5 April 2014.
Finally,  I think  it's fair to say that Mr K will have  been  caused  not inconsiderable  stress  and 
anxiety  when  realising  that that FP14  had been  invalidated  and that, without  intervention  and 
needing  to pay a further  fee, a significant  tax bill could  follow.  And so I think  the additional  
payment  of £250  is warranted  in this instance.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold  the complaint  and that TenetConnect  Limited  should  pay 
Mr K compensation  as set out above.
Philip  Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6890802