K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Tesco Personal  Finance Plc (Tesco) unfairly closed his account and 
registered a fraud marker against his name  on the national  fraud  database, CIFAS.
background
In October  2015, Mr B noticed  his two Tesco accounts were blocked.  They  were then closed 
without notice, and a CIFAS fraud  marker was added against his name.
He complained to Tesco  that it had closed his accounts without notice, and that when hed 
applied for a new account elsewhere he was declined due to the CIFAS maker.  It replied, 
explaining that it was within its rights under the terms and conditions  of Mr Bs accounts to 
close them,  and that it felt it had sufficient reasons  per the CIFAS guidance Principle 4 
Lawfulness (Standard  of Proof) (the four pillars)- for registering the fraud marker. 
As Tesco refused  to remove  the CIFAS marker, Mr B brought  his complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that on balance Tesco hadnt been able 
to show us that it had met the high bar required to justify the registration of a CIFAS marker 
against Mr B, and felt it should remove it. 
Tesco didnt  agree. It re-stated that it felt it had met the four-pillars required by CIFAS,  and 
that while it no longer  held the original detailed evidence it based the marker on, it explained 
that it had heard from other banks with information that justified the adding  of the marker. 
So Tesco asked for an ombudsmans review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see that this isnt a black and white  case. So its not straightforward  
for me to be able to say if Tesco was right or wrong in 2015.  Its not immediately obvious,  
and requires a balanced view of all the evidence. 
Ultimately, though, I agree with our Investigator that while  Tesco did have  some  evidence to 
justify adding the CIFAS  at the time, its not been able to show us specifically what this is  
and crucially whether  it was enough.  And as the requirement is to keep the detailed  records  
for six years, Id expect it to be able to do so if it had them.  
Its very clear how strongly  Tesco  feels about this case. Its articulated its position  well, and 
done its best to explain  why it feels it met the four pillars burden of proof  CIFAS  requires  
before a fraud marker  can be added. But this evidence is largely anecdotal  i.e. saying  that 
other banks  had been in touch with concerns about  Mr B receiving  a fraudulent  payment. 
While that may have been the case,  we havent  seen any further  detail of what these 
concerns were. And Im afraid its not enough simply to say that the information  was 
sufficient and credible  at the time  and that therefore the CIFAS loading was justified. I 
need to be able to see now why it was loaded, so that I can decide myself  if it was then. And 
there isnt the evidence  to allow me to do that. 
Ref: DRN63674162Further, if Tesco was to argue that another bank had loaded a further  CIFAS  marker since  
2015, it still wouldnt persuade me that it was right to do so when it did. I can only look at the 
circumstances at the time  not retrospectively.  So while cumulatively matters  now might  not 
look good for Mr B, that doesnt make what Tesco did in 2015 okay. It still needed to meet 
the high bar in place  at that time  regardless of what might go on to happen  in the future. 
On the matter of the account closures,  I agree that Tesco was entitled  to do what it did. But 
in respect of the CIFAS  marker  whether justified at the time or not  what  matters to me is 
whether it can be justified now with sufficient evidence, and Im afraid Tescos been unable  
to convince me of that. 
My role is to assess all of the evidence,  and reach  an outcome thats fair to both parties. As 
Ive said, this hasnt  been an easy case to determine, and I was persuaded to some extent 
by the arguments put forward by Tesco. But, ultimately, Ive not been convinced  that theres 
evidence to support  its position that the 2015 CIFAS loading was fair and justified at the 
time. 
So Im going to uphold the complaint and ask Tesco to remove  the CIFAS marker. Im not 
going to ask it to pay any compensation to Mr B, as I feel hes to some  extent  getting  the 
benefit of the doubt here, and I think the lifting of the marker is sufficient redress.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint  in part. To resolve matters, Im asking 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc to remove the CIFAS  marker it placed against  Mr B. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6367416