K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) wont fairly settle a 
claim he made for accidental  damage under his home insurance.
background
Mr F dropped a heavy  item on his bay window frame. The sill broke  and part of an upright 
was scratched deeply.
Mr F asked  Lloyds  to look at a claim for a new window as hed been advised  by a couple  of 
contractors that  as the window was fairly old  when it was taken out to replace the sill it 
likely wouldnt go back in. So the recommendation was the entire window be replaced.
Lloyds accepted Mr Fs claim and said it would  sent a contractor out to make  the window 
safe and assess  the damage.  The contractor didnt  turn up for the first planned visit, but 
when the damage  was assessed this contractor too said there was no guarantee the window 
would go back in once  taken out. However,  its also told Lloyds  that it would attempt a repair 
before replacing  the window.
Mr F says thats not good enough   the repair is likely to be unsuccessful, and he doubts any 
new sill will match the existing frame given the window frame  has weathered over many  
years. He also points  out that the largest pane  is now fogging up  something  that didnt 
happen before the accident. Finally  he told Lloyds his wife is ill, and potentially having two 
lots of work  would be very stressful for her.
Lloyds acknowledged  it hadnt provided  very good service, and sent Mr F £50 to make up for 
the missed appointment. But it says it will, at this point,  either  repair the window  or give Mr F 
the cash equivalent of the repair cost. Thats just over £500  before an excess of £250 is 
deducted. Lloyds  says it will consider replacing the window if the repair  fails.
Our investigator concluded that Lloyds is acting  within the terms and conditions of the policy, 
so its offer to repair is fair. He did ask Lloyds to consider paying 50% of the cost of a new 
window as a way to settle this complaint, but Lloyds  refused.
Mr F remains unhappy with Lloyds position,  so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at photos of the damage  and the various reports sent by contractors.  Ive also 
had a chance to look at Mr Fs policy documents.
matching items
Mr F has matching items cover for his building. Its included as an endorsement on his policy 
schedule, and this says, in summary,  that if Mr F makes a successful claim then, if the item 
being claimed for is part of a set (or of uniform nature with other items), then Lloyds will, 
essentially replace  an entire set of items  if a repair doesnt match the rest of the set.
Ref: DRN62062102It also says Mr F must give Lloyds any undamaged (or damaged  items) replaced if it asks for 
these.
I think that means Lloyds  is obliged to carry out a repair so that the whole window matches, 
colour wise. If that cant be done with a repair to Mr Fs satisfaction then the whole window 
will have to be replaced.
repair or replace
The terms and conditions  in Mr Fs policy allow Lloyds  to repair or replace items damaged. 
That choice ultimately is Lloyds. So I think its reasonable for it to attempt a repair  before 
replacing the window in its entirety. 
I do accept that Mr F wants to avoid the possibility of two lots of repairs (or one repair  and a 
replacement) but I cant order Lloyds to pay more  than it needs to to fulfil its obligations 
under the policy  Mr F holds. Lloyds own contractors say a repair  can be achieved,  and I 
think its fair for Lloyds  to rely on the report it received from them, even if at an earlier stage 
the contractor commented  that a repair might fail.
Ive also thought about the fogging that Mr F says started only after the window was 
damaged. I think its possible the fogging is a result of the accident, which could have broken 
the seal around the base of the window and allowed water vapour in. But Im also aware  that 
none of the contractors  including Mr Fs own - are certain the accidental damage is the 
cause of this. And double  glazed units do fail over time. I think the cause of the problem 
might only become conclusively shown when the repair was attempted.  
later events
Mr F has told us he had the window replaced in late 2018  after our investigator  had 
reached his conclusions (and said he thought Lloyds could fairly attempt a repair). Im 
satisfied Mr F knew our investigators thoughts on his complaint before he replaced the 
window. That suggests he was also aware that if he replaced the window before an 
ombudsman had issued  a final decision he did that knowing he might  then have to bear the 
full cost.
It also means, unfortunately, that its no longer possible  to check any colour matching issues 
or if the fogging was as a result of the accident. 
Im not going  to ask Lloyds to cover  the cost of the new window. Lloyds has offered to pay 
Mr F what it would have  cost it to repair the window after his excess is deducted. I think  this 
is in line with its obligations. The offer is about  £250  once  the excess is deducted, and Ill 
leave it with Mr F to say if he wants to accept  this or withdraw his claim.  I must  tell Mr F that 
if he does the latter the claim it will still show on industry databases, albeit as withdrawn.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Ref: DRN62062103Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6206210