K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled the recovery of his funds 
when he reported  a scam.
background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2020  to explain why I thought Mr As complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to give me. This is 
an extract  from that provisional decision:
Mr A says hes been the victim of a scam. He says in 2017  he instructed a builder  to 
complete some work  on his property. He was told the builder was registered to complete 
gas and electrical  work. To pay for the work and building  materials,  Mr A made  the 
following transfers:
10 May 2017 - £3,000
10 May 2017 - £1,000
16 May 2017 - £1,500
22 May 2017  £1,500
Mr A said he also made some payments in cash.  But when the work had begun,  he 
quickly became concerned about  its quality and the amount of progress being  made.  Mr A 
began to research  the builder and found  he wasnt qualified to carry out gas and electrical 
work and he stopped all work on the property  immediately.
On 1 June 2017, Mr A contacted Lloyds  to report the scam. Lloyds told Mr A it would look 
into whether it could get his funds back for him.
Mr A also got in touch  with the recipient bank and it told him they would freeze  the builders 
account, but Lloyds would  need to get in touch to raise an indemnity to have his funds 
returned to him.
Mr A says Lloyds then refused to issue an indemnity to the recipient bank. They  felt this 
was a civil dispute between him and his builder; the crux of which was surrounding the 
quality of work already completed - and they couldnt do anything more  to recover his 
funds. Unhappy with Lloyds initial response, Mr A got in touch with them  again.  He 
reiterated that he had been  the victim  of a scam. He said the builder wasnt  registered on 
Companies House  and had provided him with a fake name. Mr A felt this had all the 
hallmarks of a scam and it was his belief that that it was the builders  intention  to make  it 
appear that work was being completed in order to keep receiving payments and then 
abscond with the funds. Because of this, Mr A felt Lloyds  should raise an indemnity, but 
Lloyds said this didnt  change its mind and refused to issue  an indemnity on his behalf.
Mr A says he then spoke to the police  who went to visit the builder. Mr A says the 
builder had his solicitor with him and answered  no comment to all questions asked of 
him. Mr A says the police then told him there  was nothing further they could  do.
Mr A also raised some concerns about  how his complaint had been handled by Lloyds. He 
says Lloyds lied to him when he asked  to speak to a manager  he was told he was 
speaking to a manager, but this later turned out to be untrue. He also said Lloyds had sent 
Ref: DRN60005292him letters that were  never received. And had provided him with incorrect information  
about what they would be able to do to help him.
Mr A says he has been caused  much distress by what happened  with his builder and 
Lloyds response  to his complaint.
Lloyds response
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr As complaint. It said it felt its decision to not request a return  of 
the funds from the recipient bank was the correct one. And it didnt think  it had done 
anything wrong  in treating the matter  as a civil dispute and not a scam.
Lloyds said Mr A contacted them on 1 June  2017  to raise some concerns  about four 
payments he had made to his builder. Mr A told Lloyds he had already reported the matter 
to trading standards.
Mr A told Lloyds  he had agreed a quote  of £16,000  for work to be completed on his 
property. Mr A told them the builder had said he was qualified to complete  gas and 
electrical work.
Mr A said the work was supposed  to take around  4 weeks, but the builder had been in 
his property for 4-5 weeks and not much  had been  done - apart from the knocking down 
of some walls.
Lloyds said the circumstances of the complaint dictated it should  treat the dispute as a 
civil matter, not a scam, and therefore it could  not request  the funds be returned from the 
recipient bank.
Lloyds said the work  had started and the builder had been  in the property for around four 
weeks. It said Mr A had told them  hed paid a percentage of the total cost but what hed 
paid wasnt reflective  of the work  completed. Lloyds said this didnt sound like a scam.  And 
so it wouldnt be challenging this further and it wouldnt be raising an indemnity to ask for 
the funds to be returned  as this would leave  Lloyds  legally  liable for the funds should the 
recipient bank later be satisfied that its customer was entitled  to them.
Lloyds said it had contacted the recipient  bank to make them aware of the circumstances 
but had confirmed they would not be submitting an indemnity for the return of the funds.
Lloyds said it mightve given Mr A the impression that it would  be able to help him 
retrieve his funds  during its initial call with him and it acknowledged that some of his calls 
may not have  been returned  as quickly as they shouldve.  It offered Mr A £160  in 
compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Mr A didnt agree with what  Lloyds said so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our involvement so far
One of our investigators  looked into things. She didnt think  this was a scam and was 
more likely a civil dispute between Mr A and the builder. She felt that the fact that the 
Ref: DRN60005293work had started  and had gone on for some four weeks before concerns arose meant  this 
wasnt a scam  it was a dispute about  the quality of work  carried out.
She didnt  think Lloyds should  refund Mr A as it followed  his instructions to make  the 
payments in the first instance. And it acted fairly when it didnt treat his claim as a scam  in 
its attempts to recover his funds.
Our investigator also thought that the amount Lloyds had offered to compensate Mr A for 
its service failings was reasonable and she didnt think  Lloyds needed to offer anything 
more.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators findings. In summary he said:
The money in dispute was his and he shouldnt  have to prove this in order to get 
it back. It should be for the recipient bank  to prove that the money was its 
customers and they had already agreed  to freeze the account.
The builder had been investigated  by the police and had refused to answer  
questions. If the work had been  carried out legitimately there would  have been  
no reason for him to refuse to answer questions.
The probability of the builder being able to make  a counterclaim was zero.
As the matter couldnt be resolved by the investigator,  Mr A asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint  and so it has been passed  to me to consider.
Upon reviewing the complaint, I contacted the recipient bank for some further information. 
Specifically, I asked the recipient bank  to tell me what the outcome of its conversations 
had been with its customer and whether they were now satisfied  that this was a civil 
dispute between  the two parties.
The recipient  bank told me it had spoken  to its customer and was also now satisfied  that 
the matter was a civil dispute between its customer and Mr A.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  everything,  Im 
currently minded to reach the same  conclusion as our investigator - for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr A doesnt  dispute authorising the payments  in the first instance and Lloyds had an 
obligation to follow his instructions in line with the mandate it held on the account. 
Having considered the circumstances of the payments, Im persuaded Lloyds acted 
correctly in executing  Mr As payments to the builder as he initially instructed.
The attempt to recover the funds
When Mr A contacted Lloyds to tell them what had happened, it was for Lloyds  to 
consider good  industry practice in deciding what to do next. And where the matter is 
considered a private civil dispute it does not need to treat the claim as a scam and 
contact the receiving bank  to recover the money.
Ref: DRN60005294Here Lloyds treated  Mr As claim as a civil dispute, and I dont think  this was unfair in the 
circumstances. I say this because Mr A said he reached an agreement with the builder to 
complete work on his property. And the builder was in his property for some weeks and 
completed some work. The dispute  only arose  after a number of weeks  when Mr A became 
unhappy with the quality  of the work carried out and the time it was taking  to complete. And 
it appears that the builder only left the property because Mr A asked him to upon 
discovering he wasnt qualified to carry out some  of the works he had agreed to. This isnt 
the usual actions of a fraudster. And Im satisfied that the crux of this dispute is about the 
quality of the work completed.  I note the police have also said they will not be investigating 
the matter further.
Overall, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Lloyds to consider this a civil matter.  And 
as Lloyds considered the matter as a civil dispute, it didnt need to raise  an indemnity on 
the funds with the receiving bank. And I dont think its actions  here were unfair.
But Ive also thought about  what might  have happened if Lloyds had raised the matter as 
a scam and contacted the receiving  bank.
When a receiving bank  receives notification of a scam it also should consider  good industry 
practice and contact its customer to understand what happened.  If the receiving bank 
considers the matter  is a civil dispute it may decide  to not return  the funds. But it should 
also consider if its customer has received the monies in good faith. It will usually contact its 
customer to understand  more about  the dispute  and make its decision on whether the 
funds should be returned.
In this case, Ive spoken to the receiving bank and I understand it is now satisfied that its 
customer received the funds in good faith and it has unfrozen  their account. It is also 
satisfied that this is a civil dispute and agreed to take no further action. This leads me to 
the conclusion  that even  if Lloyds  had done what Mr A wanted, and raised an indemnity  
with the recipient bank, it most  likely  wouldve been  unsuccessful and would not have 
resulted in the receiving bank returning Mr As funds to Lloyds.
I appreciate Mr A says the receiving bank  told him they would block the account and return 
the funds if Lloyds raised an indemnity.  But this is still dependant  on the above factors 
being taken into account. So, if it was still considered  a private civil dispute by the receiving 
bank then no action  would  have been taken. And if the recipient of the funds (the builder) 
could show entitlement  to the funds then the receiving bank might  not return it in this 
instance either. Given the information provided  to us by the receiving  bank, Im satisfied its 
more likely than not that this is what  wouldve happened in this particular case. And so I 
dont think Lloyds couldve  done  anything more here.
Lloyds handling  of Mr As complaint
Ive taken into account what  Mr A has said about  being lied to by Lloyds  about  speaking to 
a manager, not receiving call backs he was promised and not receiving letters  Lloyds had 
told him had been sent. Ive also taken into account that he may have been given the 
impression Lloyds would be able to help him retrieve his funds and it later turned out that 
they couldnt.
I can see that Lloyds  acknowledged that some of Mr As calls werent returned and that 
they may have wrongly raised his expectations  as to what  would happen  next in their initial  
Ref: DRN60005295conversations with him. But Ive also seen Lloydss technical information that shows  me 
that letters were sent out on time.  And I think there were some crossed-wires during the 
conversation about a manager. The member of staff Mr A was speaking  to was a manager 
but they were  not the case-handlers manager  as Mr A thought.  I dont think this was a 
deliberate attempt to mislead  Mr A, I think it was simply  a matter of crossed-wires during 
the conversation. Overall,  Im satisfied that the £160 offered to Mr A to compensate  him for 
Lloyds service failings  is enough. And, at the moment, I wont be recommending that 
Lloyds pay anything more.
Summary
I appreciate Mr A has lost out here and I can understand why he is frustrated but I dont  
think it would  be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to cover his losses. As it currently stands, 
Im satisfied this is a civil dispute  between Mr A and the builder  and Lloyds is not liable to 
refund him. Im also satisfied that Lloyds offer of £160 is enough to compensate him for its 
service failings is
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds did not respond to my provisional decision with any further  points.
Mr A did not agree  with my provisional  decision. He reiterated that he didnt feel the builder 
was legitimate. He also reiterated that the funds that had been transferred to the builders 
account were his  he wasnt  asking Lloyds  to compensate him, he was simply asking for his 
own money to be returned to him.  He also pointed  out the recipient bank had frozen  the 
account and so all Lloyds had to do was raise an indemnity and he would have got his 
money back. But Lloyds failure  to act meant the funds were released and, presumably, used 
by the owner of the account. 
He also pointed out that the £160 in compensation Lloyds had offered him was for a different 
matter and not the one in dispute  here.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr A said but Ive reached the same overall 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision. Ill explain why.
I have taken into consideration  what  Mr A has said about the builder  he employed not 
being fully qualified to do the work  Mr A wanted him to. But ultimately, the builder had 
entered Mr As home and the work  had started  and had gone on for some four weeks  
before concerns arose.  It was concerns  about  the quality of the work that resulted in the 
builder leaving the property at Mr As request.  And so, Im satisfied that it was reasonable 
for Lloyds  to consider this a dispute  about work that had already been carried  out and, 
specifically, the quality of this work. And so, I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lloyds to 
consider this a civil dispute between Mr A and his builder and to decline to raise an 
indemnity on Mr As behalf.  
I also appreciate what Mr A has said about  simply wanting Lloyds to ask for his money to 
be returned to him. And I understand why Mr A feels that Lloyds lack of action has resulted  
in him losing his money. I also dont doubt Mr A was informed by the receiving bank that if 
Ref: DRN60005296Lloyds raised an indemnity, they would have  returned the funds to him and I can imagine  
how frustrating this must be for Mr A. But as Ive reiterated above, Lloyds do not need  to 
raise an indemnity if they are satisfied the dispute is a civil matter   as they were here. And 
so, I dont think Lloyds  has done  anything wrong.   
I also want to highlight  that I have spoken  to the receiving bank and it informed me it had 
initially frozen the receiving account pending a conversation with its customer. It then 
spoke to its customer (the builder)  and it was satisfied he had received the funds  in good 
faith and was entitled to the funds  for the work  hed completed. And so even if Lloyds had 
raised an indemnity  in this case, I still dont  think Mr A would have got his money back.  
This is because, the receiving bank would  have simply contacted its customer  to discuss 
the funds at that point  as they have done now. And presumably they would have been 
satisfied that the money was received in good faith, as they now are. And so, Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not that it would have declined to return  the funds. 
I appreciate Mr A was told something  different by the receiving bank  at the time, but I think  
this was a simplified  explanation of the process that would need  to be followed and I dont 
think it was necessarily correct. Mr A was not informed that an investigation would need to 
happen first which  could result in his funds not being returned to him. 
I agree  with Mr A that the £160 paid to him in compensation was for a separate matter. And 
as I said in my provisional decision,  this compensation was paid due to Lloyds service  
failings and not the attempted  return of the funds.  
For the above reasons, Ive reached  the same  conclusions I did in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6000529