K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2004. Miss B says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Santander  had to make it clear to Miss B thats  he had a choice about 
it. But Miss B says she wasnt given an option  to take the loan without PPI and was told the 
PPI was mandatory.
Santander has sent us a copy  of the loan agreement  for Miss Bs loan, which  set out the cost 
of the PPI. Santander has also sent us example of the loan application form it says was in 
use around the time of the sale. This included a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes to 
be ticked to show whether the customer wanted  to take it out.
While Miss B has said she was told she had to have  the PPI, she hasnt given us any further 
detail on what happened or what was said during the sale. And theres nothing on any of the 
paperwork Ive seen  which suggests she had to take the PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, and what I understand about Santanders sales practices  at 
the time,  I think its likely  that Miss B wouldve had to complete an application form similar to 
the sample Santander has sent us. And so I think its likely  that Santander made it clear to 
Miss B that she had a choice about  the PPI, and that she chose to take it knowing she didnt 
have to.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss B, so it had to check  that it was right for her. And, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve received sick pay.
Miss B has said she had pre-existing medical conditions  at the time of the sale. But shes 
also told us she wasnt taking any medication for them at the time. And from what shes said 
it doesnt sound like her conditions were likely to cause her to take any further time off work.  
So I dont  think knowing they wouldnt  be covered wouldve  affected  her decision to take the 
policy. And I still think the policy was right for her.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems  like the PPI 
would have been useful for Miss B if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Miss B off taking 
it out.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
Ref: DRN68396362But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Miss B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Miss B any commission and profit share  it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Miss B any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Miss B the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Miss B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss B can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6839636