K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  has placed a fraud-related 
marker against his record.
background
In September  2017 Halifax got in touch with Mr W to tell him they were closing his accounts.  
Mr W tried to open personal accounts  with Halifax in the early months of 2018. He 
discovered Halifax had lodged a CIFAS marker against him which was making it difficult  for 
him to get banking  services. As Halifax wouldnt  remove  the marker, Mr W brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Halifax confirmed Mr W had received funds into his account when theyd  had to return  these 
when they were claimed as fraudulent. After reviewing all the evidence, including Mr Ws 
statements, our adjudicator saw that a number of different claims had been made to Halifax.  
Money had been  returned. Mr W explained these were customers of his business. In some  
cases theyd received the services and hed been  told by a Halifax  branch that there was 
nothing behind these  claims.
Our adjudicator felt overall Halifax had done  nothing wrong in adding a CIFAS marker to 
Mr Ws name. Mr W didnt agree with this outcome. What had happened  had had a real 
impact on his business. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator and for roughly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Halifax withdrew Mr Ws business account facilities in 2016 after theyd repaid two payments 
of £50 to Mr Ws customers. Those  customers had claimed theyd not got the service theyd 
bought from Mr Ws business.
From August  to October 2017, Halifax received  a further four claims from customers  of 
Mr W. Theyd all paid him £50 too and didnt get what they thought  theyd paid for. One 
customer withdrew their claim.  And this may be the case  where  Mr W has explained he went  
to the branch to provide  relevant evidence. Afterwards he believes the branch accepted he 
had no case to answer.
However I dont think this is the case. After two claims  were made in August and 
September 2017 Halifax decided to close Mr Ws accounts. Firstly they were  concerned  he 
was using his personal accounts for business  purposes. And also they felt he was receiving 
money from customers fraudulently.  
The information they got from customers was that once work was booked, nobody turned up 
from Mr Ws business to complete the work.  Then when customers tried to complain, they 
couldnt contact  Mr W by phone or through social media.  
At that stage and as there were further claims; Halifax  decided to lodge  a CIFAS marker. 
They believed he was knowingly receiving money  without providing  a service.
Ref: DRN68264032Mr W disputes this and provided us with copies of invoices for some of the disputed  
transactions. Hes also shown us his businesss terms and conditions of the booking  and/or 
survey fee which  confirms this amount is non-refundable. 
Weve also given Mr W time to provide us with evidence of his discussions and negotiations  
with these customers. Apart  from the invoices and his belief these  people  merely changed 
their mind  about the work  theyd engaged  to have  completed; Mr W had no further evidence.
Ive also looked  at the tests a financial institution  needs to meet  when it decides  to lodge a 
CIFAS marker.  Halifax  must show there  are reasonable  grounds to believe that a fraud or 
financial crime has been committed  or attempted. A CIFAS marker was added to Mr Ws 
record in December 2017.
More generally a CIFAS  marker applies where someone has received funds which  werent 
authorised by the original sender. This isnt the case here where the parties  had a contract  
or arrangement with Mr W for services. The dispute  is about those services. So the question  
Ive considered is whether Mr W was knowingly taking  payment for services he wasnt 
intending to provide. Overall I think this is the case.
In January and February 2018,  Halifax received further claims for payments of £100 that 
Mr Ws account had received.  
I can understand why Mr W feels hes been  the victim of false allegations. Hes also right to 
say his accounts received other  payments of £50 and £100 and no claims were made to his 
bank for repayment.  But I have to balance this with the fact Mr W has been unable  to 
demonstrate he tried to resolve issues with customers. Nor has he given us any evidence  of 
the service he provides  to other customers  including photos of work undertaken or 
customer testimonies.
Overall I dont think theres enough evidence to show  Halifax  has done anything wrong. I 
know the CIFAS marker  has caused  Mr W great  problems but I dont believe I can ask 
Halifax to remove it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ws complaint against  Bank  
of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6826403