K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that shes been  received unwanted marketing material from Barclays Bank 
UK PLC (T/A Barclaycard) by post.  She is also unhappy that she couldnt lodge a complaint  
on its website and that, when she tried to complain over the telephone, she was asked to 
provide additional personal information.
background
Ms K said for the last seven to eight years shes  been receiving unsolicited marketing 
communications from Barclaycard by post.  Ms K said shes never  been  a customer of 
Barclaycard. So, shes  never provided her details to it. But she held a current  account  with 
Barclays until 2014. 
Ms K wasnt happy with the post she was receiving from Barclaycard. So, she decided  to 
contact it to tell it she didnt want to receive  any further marketing communications.  She says 
she wasnt able to complain online as she couldnt  find an email  address to send her 
complaint to. So, she telephoned Barclaycard to initiate a formal complaint. 
When Ms K complained to Barclaycard about this matter  she said she was asked to give 
additional personal information  to the telephone adviser. In her complaint she told 
Barclaycard she wanted to stop receiving unwanted  marketing  information by post. She said 
shed been receiving unwanted marketing  material from Barclaycard since 2011 and she 
wanted to know  how it had acquired her correspondence address. She told Barclaycard she 
was unhappy  she couldnt lodge a complaint on its website and that, when she tried to 
complain over the telephone, she was asked to provide additional personal information.  She 
said she wanted Barclaycard to remove  all of her personal details from its database and to 
confirm it had done this. She also told said she didnt  want  to receive any further  
communications from Barclaycard and she thought it should compensate  her £500 for what  
had happened.
After Barclaycard investigated it upheld Ms Ks complaint. But it didnt agree to pay Ms K the 
compensation she had asked for. Instead,  it offered to pay £75 compensation to resolve her 
complaint. It said this was £25 to cover the marketing  communications  Ms K had received, 
£25 to cover  her difficulties in finding  a way to make a complaint on Barclaycards website 
and £25 to reflect the poor customer service Ms K received when she called to log a 
complaint. Mrs K wasnt happy  with this and rejected the compensation Barclaycard offered 
her. So, she complained to this service.
After our adjudicator investigated this complaint they thought Barclaycard had dealt with Ms 
Ks complaint fairly. And they thought the compensation it offered to resolve  this complaint 
was reasonable  in the circumstances. But Ms K disagreed with the adjudicators  
conclusions. So, the matters been  referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Ms K has experienced  a degree of upset and frustration about receiving unwanted 
communications from Barclaycard. I can see how strongly she feels about this and I 
appreciate the reasons why she brought her complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN60631312Ms K has told our service  she was never  a Barclaycard customer.  So the first issue  Ive 
looked at is whether were able to consider her complaint. 
The DISP  rules which apply to our service  are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook. These rules  say that if the complainant  was a potential customer of the business 
they wish to complain about  theyre entitled  to bring  a complaint to us. Having  thought about 
what Ms K and Barclaycard have said here, Im satisfied Ms K was a potential customer  of 
Barclaycard. I say this because it was sending her marketing information to encourage her to 
become its customer.  So I think shes entitled  to bring a complaint for this reason.
Ms K told our service  that this issue began  seven to eight years  ago. And she raised  her 
complaint with Barclaycard in May 2018.  Under our rules, if a business doesnt  consent, we 
cant consider a complaint which is made  more  than six years after the event complained of 
or, if later, more than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably 
to have become  aware, she has cause for complaint. If they refer their complaint after this 
time we cant consider  it, unless there are exceptional circumstances.
Barclaycard has consented  to us considering Ms Ks complaint from 2012  onwards only. And 
I havent seen any evidence of exceptional  circumstances that may have prevented  her from 
bringing her complaint  to us sooner. So, Im not persuaded this service  can consider Ms Ks 
complaint about what happened  before 2012.  It follows  that Ill be addressing what  
happened from 2012 onwards. 
Ive thought about whether Barclaycard acted promptly in unsubscribing Ms K from receiving 
its marketing communications. Ms K said she contacted Barclay  card prior to May 2018  to 
ask it not to send  marketing communications to her. But Barclaycard said it has no record of 
this. And because Barclaycard said it didnt receive  instructions from Ms K to stop sending 
her marketing information prior to May 2018  it continued to do so. Mrs K hasnt provided any 
evidence to show that she contacted Barclaycard  before May 2018 to ask it to stop sending 
her unsolicited marketing  mail. So, I think its reasonable that Barclaycard continued  to send 
Ms K marketing communications until it was told not to do so. 
Theres no evidence Barclaycard refused to stop send  Ms K marketing  communications 
when asked. And Im not persuaded it did anything wrong in sending marketing information  
to Ms K prior to May 2018.  I think it acted  fairly  in addressing this part of Ms Ks complaint 
because I can see it offered to compensate her £25 even  thought  it didnt receive any 
instructions from Ms K to stop sending her marketing information. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think that once Barclaycard were aware Ms K didnt  want  to 
receive its communications it properly actioned her instructions not to receive further  
promotional information.  I say this as I can see it placed a block  on marketing information  
being sent to Ms K on 7 September  2018. And its agreed not to contact her again. 
Barclaycard explained to Ms K that she should allow  eight weeks for this block to take effect 
because its marketing campaigns were prepared in advance. Ms K thought this should  
happen sooner.  But, Im not persuaded that this period was unreasonable because 
Barclaycard said this time frame is in line with guidance issued by the Information 
Commissioners Office  on direct  marketing. Marketing campaigns  can take time to put 
together and its not unusual for them to be prepared  in advance. So this explains why 
Barclaycard told Ms K she should  allow eight weeks for this to take effect.
Ref: DRN60631313Ms K wants to know  how Barclaycard acquired her address. She believes Barclays passed 
on her personal details to Barclaycard without her permission.  And she thinks  this is 
because to her previous  custom  with Barclays. But Barclaycard has said it hasnt been able 
to locate her Barclays current account. So, it thinks its unlikely it gained her details  in this 
way. It believes its most  likely acquired Ms Ks address from a credit  reference agency. 
Im persuaded that this is how Barclaycard obtained  Ms Ks address here. And I dont think it 
acted unfairly by getting her address from a credit reference agency because that 
information is publically  available.  As such,  companies are able to access  names and 
addresses and use that information for marketing  purposes. I can appreciate  that Ms K 
thinks Barclaycard has abused her personal data. But, Im not persuaded it has here.  And I 
see its suggested which organisations Ms K can approach to ensure her data cant be 
supplied to companies in the future, which I think is good advice. 
Ms K is unhappy that she couldnt  easily identify  a way to log her complaint online using 
Barclaycards website.  Barclaycard has said it doesnt have an official  email address for 
receiving complaints, which is why this information  isnt available on its website. It said,  
because of this, it directs those wanting  to raise a complaint to do so by post, telephone or 
fax. And I can see these options are set out clearly on Barclaycards website.
Id like to make it clear to Ms K that our service cant tell a bank  how information should be 
presented to a customer on its website  because thats a matter for the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. So I cant comment on whether the information it provides 
about making a complaint is clear enough.  But I can see Barclaycard considered what Ms K 
said about her difficulties in logging a complaint  online  and has offered her £25 to resolve 
this part of her complaint.  I think this is fair.
Mr K has complained that she was asked to provide personal details when she tried to raise 
her complaint over the telephone. She said Barclaycard told her it couldnt process her 
complaint without her date of birth. From what Ms K has written in her complaint I can 
understand why this caused upset to her. Barclaycard has apologised for this and explained 
that it was optional for Ms K to provide this information. So, the representative Ms K spoke to 
shouldnt have insisted  on her providing  her date of birth before a complaint could be logged.  
Because of this it offered  Ms K £25 compensation, which I think  is reasonable.
So, while I recognise  Ms Ks strength of feeling about this complaint, I think the overall 
compensation Barclaycard has offered to pay is fair in the circumstances. Its in line with 
awards made by this service in comparable circumstances.  So, I wont  be ordering it to pay 
any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint only to the extent  that Barclays  Bank  PLC 
(T/A Barclaycard) should pay Ms K £75 in compensation to resolve this complaint. But other  
than this I dont  need  it to do anymore. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6063131