K822xComplaint
Miss As accounts were blocked by Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, for a period of 
around nine months  in 2018. She complains, in summary, about the length of time it took for 
the bank to review   and ultimately  to unblock  them, and the impact  that had on her.
Background 
Miss A has held a current account and a savings  account with Halifax for several years.  In 
January 2018  she visited  a branch  of the bank to withdraw £50,000. The bank told her that 
she would  need  to come  back the following day because  it had to order  in the money  but, 
when she returned,  Halifax wouldnt let her make the withdrawal. The bank also removed 
Miss As access to her accounts  this wasnt restored  until the following September.
Miss A complained, saying that the blocking of her accounts caused her significant distress 
and meant  she had to borrow money  from friends  and family. Her health suffered as a result.
Miss As complaint was initially considered by an investigator, who  whilst concluding that 
Halifax had been  entitled to review  her accounts  considered that the bank should pay her 
£250 compensation because it could have completed its review more quickly  than it did.  
Miss A did not accept  that conclusion, and the complaint was subsequently  reviewed  by an 
ombudsman. That ombudsman issued two provisional decisions  the most recent of which 
was dated 10 April 2019. In that second provisional decision the ombudsman made a 
number of findings  which were, in summary:
-Halifax did not have  to give a reason for blocking Miss As accounts, and she was 
satisfied that the bank  had not acted inappropriately in electing to review them. She did 
not therefore believe it was appropriate to require  Halifax to pay compensation for 
something it was entitled to do. The recommended £250 compensation related to the 
period after the bank  could have completed  its review  and the interest  she proposed  to 
award was, in her view, fair in all the circumstances.
-Whilst it would have  been reasonable for Miss A to have  been  able to gain access to 
benefit payments  during the period when her accounts were blocked, she couldnt see 
that Miss A had ever received any such payments  and she couldnt comment on the 
procedures of another organisation. She did not consider it would be appropriate  to 
require Halifax to reimburse Miss A with the other costs she had claimed, and she 
couldnt see that the bank had recorded  any information about Miss A with the credit  
reference agencies.
So, in addition to paying Miss A the recommended  £250 compensation, the ombudsman  
concluded that Halifax should  pay her interest as follows:
-on her current  account, at an annual rate of 8% simple, from 15 June 2018 (the date the 
bank could have  restored her access)  until the date it did so; and
-on her savings account, backdate the interest payable to include the period from when 
the bank could have restored her access (15 June  2018) until the date it did so.
Miss A did not accept  that conclusion and made  further representations. In the meantime, 
the ombudsman  who had issued the two provisional decisions started an extended period of 
time away  so the complaint has been passed  to me for final review and determination.
Ref: DRN69343802In response to the second provisional decision Miss A said,  in summary:
-She did not think the bank had acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations, and 
the length of time she was denied access to her accounts had left her at great 
disadvantage. Whilst she acknowledges that the bank did need to investigate   and 
suspend  her accounts, she does not accept that access to money had to be completely  
denied to her throughout the entire period.
-The bank  failed  to communicate satisfactorily  with her throughout the period, and it 
treated her as non-existing.  In accepting that the bank  did not have to give her a reason 
for its investigation, Miss A said it should  nevertheless have kept her updated about what  
was happening and the likely  overall timeframe.
-She considers  that the bank was only entitled  to freeze her accounts for up to 31 days 
unless it found  illegal  trade or action (when  the period could be extended).  She does not 
believe that applied  in her case  and she would like clarity on a number of detailed 
points concerning the banks authority to do what it did and the procedures it followed.
-She felt the ombudsman might have misunderstood what  she was saying about not 
being able to apply for benefits while her accounts were blocked.  Her point was that, 
because she was unemployed  during that period, the resultant lack of access to money  
meant she had to return to work and so was less able to help care for her father  who was 
seriously unwell at the time.
-The bank  should apologise to her, and she should receive more interest than that 
proposed in the second provisional decision,  along with more  than £250  compensation.
Miss A also set out several  issues which she would like us to look into further,  along  with 
asking for the provision  of certain  pieces of information  and for us to appoint  or order  for 
an independent/impartial investigator to track the Banks records  of matters concerning this 
complaint as currently, the responses which heavily influence [this services] decisions  are 
biased.   In addition, as well as asking for our guidance on what  further steps  she might take 
she submitted a Subject Access Request, with which we have since  complied.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. I do very much recognise that 
this was a difficult  period  for Miss A, especially since her father  was so unwell at the time. 
But, having  carefully reviewed all the evidence   along with Miss As further  representations  
 I find that I have come to the same  broad  overall conclusions as the previous ombudsman 
did, for much the same reasons.
Miss A has said she is concerned that at least some of the evidence  we have received from 
the bank is biased  with the implication being  that that is influencing our conclusions  
inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise  her concern, as an ombudsman service  our approach 
is to consider what both parties say and then reach  our own independent conclusions on that 
evidence. That is what we have  done in this complaint. If Miss A does not agree with our 
view she does not have  to accept it, and if she does  not accept this final decision she will be 
free to continue to pursue  her concerns by other means should she wish to do so. I cannot, 
however, advise her on how to go about  doing  that.
Ref: DRN69343803Also, because this service  provides  an informal dispute-resolution service (we were 
established as an informal alternative  to the civil courts) it is for us to determine how we 
assess and determine  complaints. So, again,  while I understand why Miss A may want  to 
receive specific information and/or evidence through us, that isnt how we operate.  Rather, 
as Ive already  set out, we consider what the parties  to a complaint say and then reach our 
own view  setting out the reasons for our conclusions, as the previous  ombudsman did.
There is, of course, some  common ground  in this complaint   at least to the extent that 
Miss A accepts that Halifax was entitled to block her accounts. Where  the parties positions 
diverge mainly relates to the time it took for the bank to review  her accounts  and the 
adverse consequences Miss A explains she experienced as a result of that nine-month 
period.
I do accept that it took the bank a relatively  lengthy period of time to review Miss As 
accounts. But I do not consider that it would  be right for me to conclude  it should not have 
taken in excess of any particular or specific  timeframe. Because the bank was entitled   as a 
matter of principle  to do what  it did, I consider that I should be slow to conclude that any 
specific timeframe  should  have applied. But, like the previous ombudsman, because  it has 
become clear that the bank could  have unblocked  Miss As accounts  several  months sooner 
than it did I agree that she is entitled to receive some compensation for the inconvenience  
she experienced arising from that delay.
I am not, however, persuaded that  interest apart   the bank  should  be required to meet  
any of the other consequential losses which Miss A has identified  and claimed. Im grateful 
for her clarification on the point about benefits, and I can see that it was unhelpful of the 
bank not to have kept her better informed. But its also clear that Miss A did have access  to 
money during  the relevant period  largely, if not entirely, from family. Moreover, the bulk of 
the blocked  money was in Miss As savings account; she used her current  account 
relatively sparingly.  That account did not, for example, receive regular credits prior to the 
time when  it was blocked, and outgoings  were  also limited.
So, after very careful consideration, Im not persuaded that Miss A suffered a direct financial 
loss as a result of the banks actions for which I should fairly require it to compensate  her.  
(Here, it is relevant to note that, because this is Miss As complaint, it falls outside our scope 
to consider possible consequential losses incurred  by third parties.)
In summary,  therefore, Im satisfied that the previous ombudsmans  conclusion  about the 
amount of compensation  that is, £250  was both fair and appropriate in all the 
circumstances. I also agree that the formulation for the calculation  of interest which  she set 
out in her second provisional decision was appropriate; any additional  sums  would risk over-
enriching Miss A, because its right to calculate  interest on her savings account at the rate 
that was applicable to that account.
However, I consider  that the interest calculation should run beyond the date when Halifax  
released Miss As accounts in September 2018,  because it does not seem that it told her at 
that time.  Instead,  it was not until six weeks or so later  on 29 October  2018   when Miss A 
contacted the bank  that it became clear the block had been released. I consider that the 
interest calculations  should,  therefore,  more fairly run until this later date.
Ref: DRN69343804My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To 
settle it, Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should:
-Pay Miss A interest on her current account, at an annual rate of 8% simple,  from 15 June 
2018 to 29 October 2018;
-Re-work Miss As savings account  such that interest  at the rate payable  on the account 
 is backdated  to include the period from 15 June 2018 to 29 October 2018; and
-Pay Miss A £250 in compensation.
I make  no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A name here 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6934380