K821x#15complaint
Mrs K is seeking to recover around £143,000  from HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as 
First Direct) (HSBC) which she lost from her bank accounts as a result of a scam.
HSBC say they are not liable for the loss because Mrs K authorised the payments  and 
they couldnt reasonably have intervened or done  more to try to recover  the money  from the 
beneficiary banks. 
background
In December 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, Im intending to conclude that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the 
circumstances, would  be to uphold this complaint for the following  reasons:
1.It is common ground that Mrs K authorised  each  of the four scam  payments that 
totalled £143,083.84 from her accounts  with HSBC. She was duped  by the 
scammers into believing that delisted shares shed held in a US Company now had 
value. She believed she was paying fees and charges to realise the value of the 
shares. She was in near daily phone contact  with scammers who presented  
themselves as lawyers or regulators  and who provided documentation purporting  to 
evidence why each  further payment was required. 
2.Mrs K was given the account details to which she needed to make each payment. 
The payments  were made  through either  telephone banking or online and three  of 
the four were  international payments. For clarity  the payments made  as a result of 
the scam  were:
1.£10,625 on 22 June  2017;
2.£26,050 on 7 July 2017;
3.£38,908.84 on 7 August 2017;  and
4.£67,500 on 6 September 2017.
3.I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mrs K was the victim of a 
scam. She used  her security credentials  to request the payments. So although she 
did not intend to pay the scammers,  under the Payment Services Regulations  2009  
(then in force), and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs K is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
4.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing or 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that their customers  were at risk of fraud (among other  things). 
Ref: DRN63214142This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks  are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
5.The first payment Mrs K made  as a result of the scam was for £10,625 on 
22 June 2017.  The scammers had told Mrs K this was needed to derestrict  her 
shares. Upon completion of the payment, she received confirmation this had taken 
place and an email  copy of her share certificate. The payment was to a new payee  
and it was an international payment. It was unusual for Mrs K to send this amount of 
money and particularly so as it was an international payment (something she hadnt 
previously done). Given the common activity on Mrs Ks account,  this would have 
clearly stood out as unusual  and uncharacteristic for Mrs K and her account. The 
account was typically used for day to day spending  with card payments, direct  debits 
and bill payments   but most transactions were  for a few hundred pounds or less. 
Banks have obligations to be alert to suspicions of fraudulent activity and to look out 
for unusual  transactions or anything that might  indicate one of their customers  is in 
the process of being defrauded or at risk of financial loss. 
6.It cant be established with certainty (due to the passage of time) whether  the 
instruction for this payment was given online or via the telephone. But irrespective of 
the payment channel  used, HSBC ought  to have picked up on this as an unusual  
transaction and to have taken steps to confirm Mrs K wanted to make  the payment  
and that she wasnt  at risk of financial harm. They also should have discreetly asked  
Mrs K probing questions designed to uncover a potential scam.  I would have  
expected them  not to have taken her answers at face value (because banks know  
that scammers often  give their victims a cover  story). There  is no evidence  to 
suggest that Mrs K was asked questions by HSBC with regard  to this payment. 
7.In this case, Mrs K wasnt provided with a cover  story by the scammers.  So, I think 
she would have  truthfully told HSBC what she believed to be the case, that being  that 
she was releasing  the value  of old US shares  by paying for them to be derestricted. 
I also think she would have disclosed,  if asked, that she had been cold-called by a 
lawyer from the USA who made her aware  of this opportunity. In these 
circumstances, I think  this would  have sounded  alarm  bells with HSBC.  Its 
implausible that a large international bank would have been unaware of investment 
scams of this nature. I would have expected HSBC to have warned Mrs K that what 
she was describing  closely  matched the circumstances of a common scam. I also 
think there was enough  going  on here for HSBC to have advised Mrs K against 
instructing the payment.  
8.But even  if this had happened, Im not persuaded it would have made  a difference  for 
this payment. My reasoning for this focusses on something which happened further 
into the scam. Much of the money  Mrs K sent to the scammers, she borrowed. 
Between payments two and three, Mrs K approached  a broker  to source  further 
lending. On 28 July 2017 the broker sent Mrs K an email  which  said I have carried  
out some  research and this does not appear to be a legitimate transaction  to me. 
Therefore, I will not be able to source a lender for you.  The broker  also 
recommended that Mrs K contact the Securities and Exchange  Commission  (SEC) if 
Ref: DRN63214143she had further  concerns.  Mrs K says she made efforts to contact both the SEC and 
FBI without success. There is also evidence to support  that she started  trying  to 
report matters to HSBC during a phone call in July 2017, but she didnt remain  on the 
line long enough  to complete the call or speak to the relevant department.  She also 
says that during her daily phone calls with the scammer she was talked round and 
reassured that it was a genuine investment. This is why she went  on to instruct  
payments three and four totalling around  £106,000,  even after the broker  (an 
independent finance professional) had effectively  told Mrs K that he believed she was 
being scammed.
9.Mrs K was given a clear warning  by an independent third party  but continued to 
instruct significant payments. So, based  on this, I think  its reasonable to conclude  
this is how she would  probably have reacted to warnings or recommendations from 
HSBC about the first payment.  I think its more likely than not that Mrs K would have 
done the same and gone ahead, either  at that time, or shortly  afterwards,  after likely 
being similarly reassured by the scammers.  I dont think  the circumstances of the 
scam, or the value involved would have given  HSBC reasonable grounds,  at this 
stage, to refuse Mrs Ks instruction outright, as long as sufficient  warnings had been 
given, highlighting  the risks Mrs K was taking. As I dont  think HSBCs intervention 
here would  have made a difference, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell them  to refund 
this payment. It was not the effective  cause of that particular loss. 
10.The second payment  instruction Mrs K provided was to send £26,050 on 7 July 2017, 
again to an international bank. The scammers had told Mrs K that the shares had 
warrants attached  to them and that a further payment was due, but in doing so value 
would be added  to the shares.  Mrs K says she searched online and found  that 
shares do sometime have  warrants attached.  So she then instructed the payment in 
line with what the scammers had said.  
11.This payment was for significantly more money. It also very clearly stands out as 
unusual in relation to Mrs Ks common account activity, particularly in the context of 
her payment from the previous  month. This payment instruction was given over the 
phone, with a direct opportunity for HSBCs staff to have  intervened. HSBC were  now 
presented with their customer, whose account balance  was typically  under £2,000,  
asking to transfer over £26,000 to Hong Kong only a few weeks after having made 
another payment for £10,625. I think its fair and reasonable to have expected HSBC, 
at this point, to have  had serious  grounds  for suspecting that Mrs K was at risk of 
fraud and/or financial harm. And I think HSBC had an obligation to look out for 
Mrs Ks best interests and to intervene. 
12.Again, I would have expected some probing  questions to have been asked of Mrs K 
in relation to this payment. Im not suggesting  that Mrs K suddenly  would  have seen 
the light and been more receptive to a warning. I think its likely she would have 
again explained the circumstances  that she believed  to be the case. That this was a 
payment in lieu of warrants on shares she was in the process of acquiring. But I think 
by this stage, and with the significant sums involved,  HSBC  would have been justified 
in refusing to follow Mrs Ks instruction to send the money. This is a significant  step 
to take for any bank  given its regulatory obligations  as a payment services  provider. 
To be clear, I do not expect a bank to refuse  a payment request lightly  or without 
reasonable grounds for suspecting fraud. But HSBC  would have been faced with an 
ordinary consumer telling  them she was sending these significant  sums of money to 
Hong Kong to release the value in formerly  worthless shares in a US company. I 
Ref: DRN63214144think it would  have  been fair and reasonable for HSBC to have  refused the 
instruction. 
13.And whilst HSBC had the power to do this, a bank cant  indefinitely refuse to allow a 
customer access to their funds.  So, I think HSBC would have asked Mrs K for 
documentation to evidence the payments she was instructing  to either  confirm  or 
allay their concerns. And whilst  the documents the scammer had shared with Mrs K 
might have  been convincing to a layperson, I think HSBC  would have quickly  
identified they werent  genuine (as the broker later did). Mrs K wholeheartedly 
believed this to be a genuine investment at that point, so I dont think  shed have  had 
any reason not to share information  and documents with HSBC.  I think  HSBC  
refusing Mrs Ks instruction to send  a payment would  have  been  very impactful on 
her. And I think this, in combination with HSBC highlighting that the documentation  
wasnt genuine, would have been  enough for Mrs K to realise she was the victim of a 
scam. As a minimum, I think  this would have given her cause  to think and prompted 
her to confide in a friend (as she did when the scam  was finally  discovered).  In either 
case, the result would have been the same: the scam would have been discovered 
and any further  payments  (and losses) would have been prevented. 
14.The further payments made  in relation  to the scam were for £38,908.84 on 7 August 
2017 which was instructed  via online banking and £67,500 via telephone banking  on 
6 September 2017. Had HSBC intervened as set out above, I doubt  these  additional 
losses would have  occurred. But for completeness, I also consider each of these 
payments to be highly  unusual, both in their own right and when  considered as part 
of the series of payments. I note that payment three came  from a different account 
Mrs K held with HSBC, but again  I still consider a payment of that amount to be 
clearly unusual in relation  to that account  and worthy of intervention by HSBC. Each 
payment was again made following Mrs K being  told that there  was another charge / 
fee to enable the release  of the value of her shares,  for which  she would then receive  
a significant return.  And for the same reasons Ive already covered, I think  HSBC  
ought to have taken the actions Ive described  in relation to payment  two for each of 
these payments. I think by not doing so, there  was a failure  by HSBC. They fairly and 
reasonably should  have done more to protect  their customer. Action  taken sooner 
would probably  have reduced  the later losses, particularly given the significant  
increases in the value of the payments  as the scam  progressed. 
15.Even  though I believe HSBC ought to have intervened at the first payment, Im not 
persuaded that intervention would  have prevented it being sent. So, I dont think 
HSBC need to refund Mrs K that amount. But I do think their intervention  (as 
described above)  would have prevented the second  payment of £26,050 being sent. 
So, I think HSBC should pay that amount to Mrs K. 
16.But Ive gone on to think about the remaining two payments. As Ive said, I consider 
that HSBC were at fault for allowing  them to be made. So, logically it could be argued 
that HSBC are also liable for Mrs Ks loss in relation to payments three and four. But, 
I also have to consider all the circumstances of this complaint. And I cant ignore the 
fact that prior to making those payments  Mrs K received clear advice from a broker  
that this was likely to be a scam. And whilst  Ive considered Mrs Ks likely state of 
mind at the time,  and the effective grooming she experienced  from the scammers,  I 
dont think it would  be fair to hold HSBC liable for the full value of those payments. 
Ref: DRN6321414517.During a recent court case in the Supreme Court, it was held that a bank could and 
should have intervened  to protect their (commercial) customer  from fraudulent  
activity that ought reasonably to have  triggered  concerns (Singularis  Holdings Ltd v 
Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd [2019] UKSC 50). And Im mindful that in that 
case, the court made a reduction  in the damages awarded  as a result of the 
customers contributory negligence.  And on the facts of this case, I think Mrs Ks 
actions were negligent from the point of receiving independent advice.  She had been 
made aware of the risks involved  in the transactions, and (admittedly in part due to 
the skill and persistence of the scammers) she continued to instruct  the payments. In 
short, HSBC ought to have stopped the payments, but Mrs K too, by that stage, 
reasonably ought to have taken steps  to protect her own interests.  In failing to do so, 
I think she is partly to blame for those losses. As such, I think  (in the circumstances 
of this complaint)  it would be fair to make a reduction of 50% of the value of the final 
two payments made to the scammer  because of Mrs Ks contributory negligence.
 
18.Given my findings above, its not necessary in this case to consider the urgency with 
which HSBC tried to recover the funds  from the beneficiary banks. But it does appear 
to be a feature  of these scams that the money is promptly  moved on by the 
scammers to frustrate any attempts  at recovery. And recovery  is often more 
challenging when  international payments are involved,  as they are here. 
19.In summary, Im intending  to direct that HSBC  pay Mrs K £79,254.42. That being the 
sum of payment two and 50% of payments three and four. This represents  just over 
half of Mrs Ks loss. And stepping  back and looking at all the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable outcome. HSBC failed in their 
duty to protect  Mrs K from financial harm. And Mrs K too could have done more  to 
protect herself from the scammers  by heeding  the advice the broker gave her. Im 
satisfied this approach  of splitting the liability is both fair and appropriate to all the 
circumstances. 
20.I also think that its appropriate to award 8% simple  interest  on this amount to 
compensate Mrs K for being without  those funds.  Im aware that in the aftermath of 
the scam, Mrs K faced financial difficulties and re-mortgaged her home to consolidate 
her debts.  And that she also borrowed funds to pay the scammers. Ive taken all of 
this into consideration,  but I think that 8% simple is the fairest way to compensate  
Mrs K for being without funds she otherwise could  have had the benefit of. I dont 
think it would be reasonable to ask HSBC to pay the significant early redemption  
penalties of the mortgage agreement  she entered into. There would have been a 
range of factors that influenced Mrs Ks decision to enter into that agreement and it is 
too far removed for me to consider it a direct result  of the failings by HSBC. 
21.I also think it would be fair and reasonable to make a compensation award  of £300 
for the distress and inconvenience Mrs K experienced. Im mindful that the primary 
source of her distress  is the criminal act of the scammers, but ultimately, had HSBC 
intervened, as I think they ought  to have  done, much of this could have been 
prevented.
HSBC responded  to say they accepted the provisional decision.  Mrs K responded  and made 
some further  points which Ill address below. Now both sides  have had an opportunity to 
comment, I can go ahead with my decision.  
Ref: DRN63214146my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K says that she would have  listened  to any warning from HSBC  and that she believes 
this would have  prevented  the scam and therefore her losses. She says that as a large, 
reputable, international bank, anything they might have said would have had weight which  
would have influenced her.
In my provisional decision,  I made  clear  that I think HSBC ought  to have taken steps  to 
intervene in each of the payments Mrs K made. But the issue  in dispute  is about whether or 
not this would have made  a difference. Where  there  is incomplete,  inconclusive or 
contradictory evidence,  I have to make  my decision based on the balance of probability  as to 
what I think most likely  would  have happened. 
Here, Mrs K is saying that she would  have heeded any warning. But I have to balance  that 
with what actually happened following the email  from the broker.  And despite what  Mrs K 
now says, Im not persuaded she would have  acted differently to how she did when  the 
broker gave what I consider to be a clear warning that she was in the process of being  
scammed. Ive considered what Mrs K has said about the broker being  just someone she 
found online  and HSBC being a respected international  bank. But again, the broker involved 
was a finance professional, and I dont think its reasonable to not place as much  weight  on 
the advice he gave due to the comparatively smaller size of his business.  Arguably, he was 
turning away business  due to his concern for Mrs K, which is still a significant  step to take 
and particularly so for a smaller business. 
Mrs K also pointed out that she did take action following the email from the broker,  that being 
that she contacted  HSBC  and told them she had concerns about the first two payments 
shed instructed. I agree this is the case and the records from HSBC support this. At the time 
of the call Mrs K didnt stay on the line to speak to the relevant  team.  The notes  from HSBC  
record that she said she would call back when she had more time. And irrespective of this, 
Ive already concluded that HSBC could and should  have intervened at the second payment 
by refusing the instruction, and if they had done so, the further loss likely would have been 
prevented. So even if I were to conclude that HSBC  ought to have done more in relation to 
the contact from Mrs K (which took place between payments two and three)  the outcome is 
effectively the same.  
Mrs K says the focus should remain on HSBCs actions. But my role requires that I consider 
all the circumstances  of a complaint. And here, just as HSBC ought to have done more, I 
cant ignore that Mrs K too could have  done more to protect herself in relation  to the final two 
payments. This isnt to say Im unsympathetic  to what has clearly been  an incredibly 
impactful crime. But I must remain impartial and reach a decision that I consider to be fair in 
the wider circumstances. 
I appreciate Mrs K feels that Ive let HSBC  off the hook with regards to the third and fourth 
payments. I dont agree this is the case. Im still directing that half of these are returned to 
Mrs K, with interest.  And Ive been clear that HSBC were at fault for allowing them to be 
processed. 
Ultimately, I accept that Mrs K has been  the victim of a complex scam.  And I similarly accept 
that this was perpetrated with skill and persistence by the scammers involved. But Im 
Ref: DRN63214147satisfied that the outcome Ive reached is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Mrs K 
isnt obliged to accept my final decision,  in which case it wont  be legally binding. Mrs K 
would then be free to pursue her dispute through other avenues, such as the courts, should 
she choose to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
order HSBC to pay Mrs K the following:
£79,254.42 for the stolen payments (less any amounts recovered from the payee 
banks and already  reimbursed to Mrs K); plus
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Although I have not awarded the interest Mrs K actually  incurred  on the loans she took to 
pay for the scam (for the reasons explained above),  HSBC should still pay interest on this 
proposed award  of £79,254.42 at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the 
respective scam payments to the date of actual refund. Whilst no interest is currently  
payable on the compensation  for distress  and inconvenience, interest will also accrue at that 
rate on the £300 distress and inconvenience  if it is not paid within 28 days of HSBC  
receiving notification of Mrs Ks acceptance of my final decision. 
If tax is properly deductible on the interest awarded, HSBC  may do this but should  provide 
Mrs K with a tax-deduction certificate upon  request.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6321414