K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about what  British  Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) did when he called on it 
under his home emergency insurance  policy to repair a leak.
background
Mr N had a home emergency policy with BGI. Mr N had tenants  living  in the property. They 
discovered water coming through  his kitchen ceiling from the bathroom above. He called  BGI 
who arranged for a plumber to attend. The plumber identified that the floor tiles in the 
bathroom were cracked and there  was no shower  curtain. Mr N says because  the leaking 
continued a second plumber attended the property  a couple of days  later. This plumber 
identified that the bathroom tiles were cracked  and the grout had deteriorated. Mr N says 
because of this he changed his bathroom floor and installed  a shower  curtain but the leaking 
continued. 
A third plumber from BGI attended  the property and identified that the bath waste  pipe was 
disconnected and the taps were leaking. The plumber  reconnected the waste pipe and a few 
days later BGI replaced the taps.  This resolved the leak. 
Mr N says he wouldnt have replaced  the bathroom  floor if BGI didnt recommend that he did 
so and he says the kitchen  ceiling  wouldnt have been as damaged if BGI had identified the 
cause of the leak earlier. Mr N would like BGI to cover  the costs  of replacing the bathroom 
floor, installing  the shower curtain and repairing the kitchen ceiling. Mr N is also unhappy 
with the service hes received from BGI. 
BGI says the bathroom floor tiles and kitchen ceiling were already damaged. So it offered  
£125 towards the cost of replacing  the bathroom  floor tiles which covers 50% of the costs 
Mr N paid for replacing the bathroom floor and installing a shower  curtain. BGI also offered 
£250 towards the cost of repairing the kitchen ceiling which covers around 53% of the costs 
Mr N paid for this work. BGI acknowledges its service couldve been better so it offered Mr N 
£209.12 of which it says £29.12 amounted  to four months premium for plumbing  and drains  
cover under his HomeCare policy as a gesture of goodwill.  
Mr N was unhappy with this so he brought the complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and she thought the offer of £250  towards  the cost of repairing the 
kitchen ceiling and the offer of £209.12 for the inconvenience caused  was fair. The 
investigator thought  Mr N replaced  the bathroom  floor unnecessarily  as BGI were  not able to 
say that the cracked floor tiles caused  the leak.  She thought BGI should  pay Mr N £250 to 
cover the full costs  of Mr N replacing the bathroom floor and installing a shower  curtain.  
Mr N and BGI didnt agree  and asked for an ombudsman  to consider the complaint. Mr N 
says the kitchen ceiling wasnt already damaged so the full costs of repairing it should  be 
covered. BGI says the bathroom floor tiles were  already damaged  so it doesnt agree it 
should pay the full costs  of repairing it, so the complaint has been  passed to me.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold Mr Ns complaint in 
part - Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN66411952An insurers  rules and regulations say that it must handle  claims promptly and fairly. Part of 
doing this puts a reasonable  expectation  on BGI to investigate the cause of the damage and 
provide reasonable guidance on what is needed  to put the damage right.  BGIs policy terms 
and condition says,  Our engineer will use their expert judgement  to determine how the 
damage was done.  So Ive considered whether  BGI has acted in accordance with this. 
Mr N says that BGI shouldve identified  that the bath waste pipes  were  disconnected and 
that the taps were leaking when it first visited the property. If it had done  so, Mr N says that 
whilst the bathroom  floor tiles were  cracked he wouldnt have replaced  them.  Mr N says he 
replaced his bathroom floor and installed a shower curtain because BGI recommended  he 
did so.
BGI says the bathroom floor tiles were already damaged and were part of the problem of the 
water leaking  through  to the kitchen ceiling  below. So it says its recommendation to have the 
cracked floor repaired was correct and its policy doesnt  provide  for it to cover the costs  of 
this. BGIs policy cover  provides for it to stop a leak in an emergency and not to pay for any 
damage resulting  from the leak. 
I can see that it took BGI three  visits by its plumbers to identify the cause  of the leak.  As Ive 
said above, BGI policy terms say that its engineers will determine how the damage  was 
done and its rules and regulations set out that a claim will be handled promptly.  So I think  it 
shouldve identified the cause of the leak sooner. Had it done so, I dont think Mr N wouldve 
replaced the bathroom floor or installed  a shower curtain. I say this because, even after Mr N 
replaced the bathroom floor and installed a shower  curtain following the recommendation 
made by BGI, the leak continued.  This suggests  these  issues  werent the cause  of the leak. 
The only reference  I can see regarding the bathroom floor by BGIs  plumber is a cracked tile. 
So I think that if Mr N hadnt  been led to believe these were the issues, I dont think  he would 
have been inclined to pay to carry out the work. So I think  BGI should  pay Mr N £250 which 
covers the full costs  of Mr N replacing the bathroom floor and installing a shower  curtain 
which I think is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.  
Mr N says that BGI should also cover the full costs of repairing the kitchen ceiling  as its 
failure to identify the cause of the leak sooner  meant the ceiling was damaged. BGI says it 
didnt cause the leak so it shouldnt cover  the full costs of repairing it. BGI says Mr Ns 
tenants at the property  told its plumber that some  of the damage to the ceiling was 
pre-existing. Mr N says he had an inventory  completed  before  his tenants moved in which 
doesnt show that there was pre-existing damage to the ceiling.
Mr Ns HomeCare cover  with BGI provides for getting access and making good a repair.  
It doesnt cover damage to the property. I understand Mr N says there  was no damage  to the 
kitchen ceiling before  his tenants moved in but Mr N called BGI because his kitchen ceiling 
was leaking, so there would have been some  damage to the kitchen ceiling before BGIs 
plumbers attended  the property to identify the cause  of the leak.  So I think  BGIs offer of 
£250 which is around 53% of what Mr N paid towards the cost of repairing the kitchen ceiling 
is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.  I say this because as Ive said above, 
I think BGI shouldve identified the cause of the leak sooner and had it done so, I think the 
damage to the kitchen  ceiling wouldve been  reduced.
Ref: DRN66411953Mr N is unhappy with the service hes received from BGI. He says BGI didnt  call him back at 
times and that there were  delays. BGI accepts that some of its service  was poor, some of its 
visits were unproductive  and there  were  delays so it offered Mr N £209.12. Mr N also says 
that on one occasion BGIs plumber attended the wrong address. Ive considered whether 
the offer BGI made was fair and reasonable and I think it was in the circumstances of this 
case. I say this because  I think  the offer recognises the level of impact  this inconvenience  
wouldve had on him, so I dont think BGI needs to do any more  here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following if it hasnt already  done so:
pay Mr N £250 for the cost of replacing  the bathroom floor and installing  a shower 
curtain and add 8% simple interest* from date of payment  to date of settlement.
pay Mr N £250 towards the cost of repairing the kitchen ceiling and add 8% simple  
interest* from date of payment to date of settlement.
pay Mr N £209.12 for the trouble and upset  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
*If British Gas Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr N how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr N a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6641195