K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2003 to cover  a mortgage 
that started  in 2002. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Barclays  disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the case, I 
reached a different view. So I sent out a provisional  decision and asked  for comments.  I 
said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
On the information I have,  I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold. I will explain 
why. 
Mr and Mrs M say that PPI was added  to their account without their knowledge. 
However Barclays has pointed out that the PPI policy didnt start until over a year 
after the mortgage started. It says that, to start the policy,  Mr and Mrs M would have 
had to fill in a direct debit  form, and an application  form,  and they would have been 
sent policy documents once the policy started. 
I think this is likely to be true. So I think its unlikely the PPI was added without 
Mr and Mrs Ms knowledge or consent. Also I wouldnt expect  someone  to recall in 
detail everything  that happened about  15 years ago when the application was made, 
and so I think its quite  possible  Mr and Mrs M have forgotten agreeing to the PPI. 
Ive looked at whether there  might  be other  reasons the PPI was mis-sold, but I dont 
think there are:
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, but it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  at the time.  
Being unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr M (the person covered) 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it doesnt 
seem that Mr and Mrs M had other means  they could fall back  on. So the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs M in a more secure  position, if they eventually  lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  
Its hard to know how well Barclays  explained  the cost of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs M took the PPI.
Ref: DRN67169952Its possible Barclays didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have been affected by any of 
these.
Barclays said it had no comments to make. Mr and Mrs Ms representatives said they 
accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6716995