K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains about how HSBC UK Bank plc dealt with a payment she made from her 
current account in December 2017.  She made the payment online and was charged much 
more than she expected. It took her significantly overdrawn, and she says HSBC shouldnt 
have let the money come out of her account.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. I 
explained why I proposed  to uphold the complaint.
I also invited Miss C and HSBC to let me have any more evidence  or arguments they wanted 
me to consider before making my final decision.
HSBC had nothing  more to add, so it said it accepted my provisional decision. Miss C said,  
in summary:
-She was fairly comfortable with the outcome, but there were some  mistakes in my 
provisional decision. 
-The interest rate on her HSBC credit card was 0% until September 2019.  She had to 
take out the loan because it didnt look as though she was going to get a refund for the 
payment in question  here, and she had to sort something out before the 0% credit  card 
rate ended.
-She received  a refund through a chargeback with HSBC, not from the website. This took 
several attempts  and a lot of time and effort. HSBC also told her not to use the money 
until she received  written confirmation  of the refund  which she never got.
-She did pay the loan off early, in February 2020.  She accepted she could have done so 
earlier but thought she should  wait until her complaint was concluded. She finally  felt she 
couldnt wait any longer.  She was charged  for repaying early and lost her bonus payment 
at the end of the loan term.
-She was disappointed with £300 for the impact on her of what happened,  considering  the 
time and effort  she had put into her case and the length  of time it had taken to be 
concluded. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, but I have made  some  adjustments 
to the redress I proposed.
Its helpful to know  that Miss C received  a refund through HSBC, rather  than from the 
website directly. That had not been  clear before, and it means she shouldnt  have  lost out as 
a result of the original  transaction having  been  made  in euros.
Ref: DRN60129962Ive noted what  Miss C has said about why she didnt settle the loan earlier.  I can understand 
her reluctance to use the refund  she received  straight away  to clear  the loan, given the way 
the chargeback  process works and Miss Cs recollection of what HSBC told her about  
spending the money. In the light of that, I think it fair that HSBC  should refund interest on the 
loan for an additional two months, until 1 August 2018. It should also refund any costs 
Miss C incurred for settling the loan early.
Miss C has pointed out that her HSBC credit  card had a 0% interest rate, and the loan she 
took out did not. But she hasnt provided any more details about the other  credit  card she 
had mentioned previously. I must also bear in mind  that the HSBC  credit card balance  which  
the £3,500 loan repaid  was only around  £850   it wasnt  the most  significant debt. And, while 
I recognise that it has taken some  time for Miss Cs complaint to be concluded, I think  it was 
her decision  to wait as long as she did to settle the loan.  In all the circumstances, I dont 
require HSBC to compensate  her for any interest costs on the loan beyond  1 August 2018.
Finally, Ive carefully considered Miss Cs additional  comments about the time and effort she 
has put into her complaint. Taking the matter as a whole,  I remain  of the view that £300 is 
fair compensation to recognise the overall impact on her of what went  wrong.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to uphold  this complaint.  In settlement, I require HSBC UK Bank  plc to:
-refund  any interest and other  charges Miss C paid on her current account as a result of 
the transaction being paid;
-refund  interest  charged on the loan Miss C took out in January 2018 from inception  until 
1 August 2018, and refund any set-up  costs,  as well as costs for early settlement;
-remove all records of the overdraft  applications and increased overdraft limits in 
December 2017 from any credit  reference  agencies; and
-pay Miss C £300 by way of compensation, in addition to the £50 it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60129963copy provisional decision
complaint
Miss C complains  about how HSBC UK Bank plc dealt with a payment she made from her current  
account in December 2017. She made the payment online and was charged much  more than she 
expected. It took her significantly overdrawn, and she says HSBC  shouldnt  have let the money come 
out of her account.
background
On 26 December  2017,  Miss C used her card details to buy some tickets  through a website. She says 
she expected to pay around £700. After making the purchase,  she received a confirmation  e-mail  
from the website and found she had been charged more  than £2,200.  
Miss C got in touch with both the website and HSBC.  The website refused to refund her and HSBC 
said it couldnt  stop the transaction.
Miss C had an arranged overdraft limit of £300 on her HSBC account. The transaction  caused her to 
go more  than £1,600 overdrawn  which  left her with no money and no means to pay pending direct 
debits. Miss C asked HSBC to increase her arranged  overdraft limit. It did so, but Miss C says she still 
had to ask her partner for money and use some of her savings.  
In January 2018, Miss C took out a £3,500 loan with HSBC to repay  the overdraft, as well as her 
credit cards. She says this was the only option open  to her in order to reduce the amount she would  
have to repay. The loan was for a three-year term.
Miss C also tried to get the payment to the website refunded through a chargeback with HSBC.  That 
didnt work but, a few months later, in or about May 2018, she got the amount of the transaction  back  
from the website.
In the meantime, Miss C had complained. She said HSBC should  never have let the transaction  go 
through because of the overdraft  it had created; this left her struggling financially and caused an 
enormous amount of stress which had affected her health. She was also unhappy with the way HSBC 
had treated her: she said it had given her conflicting information, failed to return promised calls,  and 
failed to deal properly with her complaint.
HSBC said it had treated the transaction as an informal  overdraft  request, and it had decided to 
approve it. It also said it accepted  Miss C had had some problems in applying for a formal overdraft  
later. It credited £50 to her account by way of apology.
Our investigator thought HSBC hadnt done anything wrong in paying the transaction and treating it as 
a request for an unarranged overdraft. But she found it hadnt explained things very clearly to Miss C. 
HSBC had said it would pay Miss C an extra £50, and the investigator thought that was fair.
Miss C didnt accept that conclusion. She still felt HSBC was wrong to have approved a transaction 
which left her with such a substantial  unarranged overdraft and which she couldnt  afford  to pay back 
in the short term  and certainly  not within  the 31 days set out in the account terms for this type of 
overdraft. She said shes been left with a loan which she has to continue to pay, and the ongoing 
impact of what happened  on her health.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN60129964The crux of Miss Cs complaint is that HSBC  shouldnt  have approved  her payment to the website. 
The payment took her account more than £1,300 over her agreed overdraft  limit. In making the 
payment, Miss C was asking for an unarranged overdraft. Thats  set out in the account  terms and 
conditions: she hadnt asked for a higher overdraft limit in advance,  and any increase to her limit 
would only have been to allow this particular payment to go through.
HSBC was entitled to decide whether or not to approve the payment. Thats also provided for in the 
account terms and conditions. In addition, those  terms say HSBC  will only agree  an overdraft if it 
thinks its customer can afford it and, for an unarranged overdraft like the one Miss C got, Well give 
you up to 31 days to repay .
HSBC says it assessed whether to increase Miss Cs overdraft limit when the transaction came 
through, and the assessment was done  automatically. It took account  of Miss Cs income, how she 
ran her HSBC  accounts,  her credit score, and her level of debt.  
I can certainly understand why HSBC needed to make a decision quickly, and its usual  practice to 
use automated assessments. But, in the circumstances  here, I find it difficult  to see how HSBC 
expected Miss C to pay back more than £1,300 in the short term, and particularly within 31 days  as 
set out in its terms and conditions. 
Miss C says there was no way she could have paid the money back  that quickly. Her net monthly  
income was just over £1,200.  That is reflected  in her HSBC account statements  from late 2017.  So 
the extra  overdraft borrowing came to more than Miss Cs income each month.  Out of that income, 
Miss C had regular bills to pay, which she says came to around £800  a month. They  included 
payments to two credit card accounts,  one of which she held with HSBC.  And I can see from Miss Cs 
bank statements that she was using  her overdraft regularly in late 2017,  sometimes going over the 
£300 limit.
Against this background, the increased overdraft limit HSBC granted  in order to pay the transaction to 
the website doesnt  appear to me to have been affordable for Miss C in the short term.  She had no 
means to pay it back quickly. It follows that I find HSBC shouldnt have allowed the transaction to go 
through, and the fair outcome is for it to compensate  Miss C for getting this wrong.
Miss C told us in May 2018  that she had received a refund of her payment  from the website. Its not 
clear whether that refund was in euros or pounds sterling, so she should  provide details  of how much 
she got back  in her response  to this provisional  decision, in order that HSBC can refund the 
difference. This is on the basis that the payment wouldnt have gone through if HSBC had looked  
properly at whether Miss C could reasonably afford to repay  in the short term  an overdraft  at the 
level she got. 
Im satisfied that Miss C wouldnt have taken out a loan in January 2018 had she not had such a large 
overdraft, so I think HSBC should refund any costs arising from that. However,  the loan proceeds 
repaid her credit  cards as well as her overdraft, so she has saved on interest on the cards.  The loan 
had a much  lower interest rate than her credit cards. She could also have repaid at least some of the 
loan early when she got the refund from the website, but I understand she hasnt done so. I will set 
out in my proposed direction below how I think HSBC should put this right. 
Finally, I think  Miss C should fairly receive some  compensation for the impact on her of what has 
gone wrong. I recognise that she has found this whole  matter very stressful, and Ive noted  what  she 
has said about the health problems shes had and the way HSBC has treated her. Ive also noted the 
conflicting information it has given and the additional  anxiety this has caused her. However, I dont 
consider I can fairly  attribute  all of what Miss C has set out to HSBC, and I cant  fine or punish 
financial businesses.  In all the circumstances, I assess a fair award  at £300, in addition to the £50 
HSBC has already paid.
Ref: DRN60129965my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision   subject to any further evidence or arguments I receive  from the parties by 
26 March  2020  is to uphold  this complaint. In settlement, I propose to require HSBC  UK Bank plc to:
-pay Miss C the difference between the refund she received  from the website and the cost of the 
transaction when it was debited to her account in December 2017,  including  the non-sterling  
transaction fee;
-refund any interest and other charges Miss C paid on her current account as a result of the 
transaction being paid;
-refund interest charged on the loan Miss C took out in January  2018 from inception until 1 June 
2018  soon after she received the refund from the website  and refund any set-up costs;
-remove all records of the overdraft applications and increased overdraft limits in December  2017 
from any credit reference agencies;  and
-pay Miss C £300  by way of compensation, in addition to the £50 it has already paid.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6012996