K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr S says Santander UK Plc (at the time Abbey National) mis-sold him the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Santander isnt able to provide much paperwork from the time the policy  was sold to 
Mr S  but this isnt unusual for a sale that took place so long ago, and businesses arent 
required to keep  records indefinitely.  But because of the lack of information, I dont have 
enough to say that Santander didnt give Mr S a choice  in taking the MPPI   so I cant 
uphold his complaint for this reason.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr S so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr S about the MPPI  wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Santander  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr S.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr S because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about having  to wait to 
make a claim and that the PPI only paid out for 12 months. But its not unusual  to have an 
excess period on an insurance policy, and looking at Mr Ss policy,  I dont think  the one that 
applied was unreasonable given  his own circumstances. The policy  couldve also paid out 
for up to 12 months per claim  not only 12 months  during  the life of the policy. So I still think  
that it couldve been useful.
Ref: DRN66746902Mr S has also said that when he tried to make a claim for unemployment after redundancy, 
he was asked to provide  evidence  and that this wasnt practical.  But I dont think  its 
unreasonable for a business  to ask for some information to support a claim.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. Santander should also pay back  to Mr S any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6674690