K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about Barclays Bank UK PLCs handling of two payments from their 
Barclays euro account to their Barclays current account. They also complain  about  the 
handling of seven payments that followed when trying to transfer these funds to an account 
held elsewhere.  
Mr and Mrs S would like a full explanation  of what happened to their money as well as 
compensation for the stress, anxiety and inconvenience they were caused. 
Mr S has taken  the lead in the complaint so for the sake of simplicity I will refer only to him in 
the body of my decision, but the reference should be understood as meaning both Mr S and 
Mrs S. 
background
On 27 February 2019, Mr S attempted to make two online transfers from his euro savings 
account to his current account. The combined  value of the two payments was close to 
€400,000. Mr S expected the transfers to be made immediately,  in line with the information 
he could see on screen. 
When the transfers did not credit the current account as expected, Mr S called Barclays  to 
try and find out what was happening. He was on the phone  for around an hour in the early  
evening but couldnt obtain  any clarification because the relevant department had closed for 
the day. Mr S asked  for a manager to call him back first thing the following morning, but that 
didnt happen.
Mr S said the funds were  showing  in the current account at around 8.40am the following day. 
Mr S then wanted to transfer the funds  to an account held with another  provider.  To do so 
through online banking, he needed to make seven separate  payments. The first payment 
was made  on 28 February 2019 and the last payment on 8 March 2019.  
When Mr S made the first payment, online banking showed his current  account  as being 
significantly overdrawn, which wasnt correct.  In addition  to this, the bank repeatedly  stopped 
the payments  Mr S was trying to make to carry out additional verification checks. 
Barclays had logged  a complaint for Mr S on 27 February 2019. Mr S spoke to the banks 
customer service  team  on 28 February 2019.  He wanted to know  what  had happened  to his 
money. He said the transfer from the euro account to the current account  should have been 
immediate. Mr S explained hed had an anxious and tense evening with very little sleep 
thinking his life savings were lost. Mr S also wanted to know  why his current account  showed 
a debit balance  when he made  the first transfer out. He thought the banks  call centre  staff 
lacked product knowledge and training. 
He was frustrated  that every transaction to his account with the other provider was stopped, 
meaning he had to keep calling the bank. He said the banks fraud detection  system should  
have identified these  repeated, identical transactions as genuine.  In addition, he said that 
Barclays had handled his complaint about these matters poorly. 
Barclays investigated Mr Ss concerns. It said transfers can get picked up for additional 
security checks  but pointed out the money was successfully credited  within  24 hours.  It 
explained that its online banking system is designed to show credits and debits separately 
so sometimes can show an interim debit balance. It confirmed the current  account was never  
Ref: DRN66416282in debit and apologised for any confusion. It offered Mr S £200  compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  the poor customer service caused. 
Mr S remained unhappy  with Barclays response. He said he wanted  a full and detailed  
explanation as to why he encountered these issues when carrying  out fairly simple 
transactions. He also explained the compensation offered didnt properly take into account 
the anxiety and stress caused by Barclays or the time and cost of the phone  calls he needed 
to make.  So he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He thought  Barclays offer of compensation was fair. 
He said the transfers from the euro account to the current  account were credited in line with 
the relevant account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations 2017. He 
acknowledged it was frustrating for every transfer to the external account to be flagged  up 
but noted the fraud detection system was in place to help combat fraud and ultimately to 
protect account holders.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. He pointed out that 
hed never  received any terms and conditions for the euro account but said as it was an 
online only account,  the online banking timescales  should apply. He said it was still unclear 
why the transfers  were  not made immediately. He pointed out that hed spent a lot longer on 
the phone  than the investigator had acknowledged and has since  provided an itemised 
phone bill highlighting around ten phone calls to Barclays between 27 February and 8 March 
2019. He said the investigator didnt take into account his distress at the apparent loss of a 
large sum of money and the frustration he experienced when having to contact the bank so 
many times. He concluded  by saying that Barclays systems are flawed and do not learn  
from previous transactions in relation to fraud detection. 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 May 2020.  In it, I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.  An extract of that decision is set out below:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am currently  minded to 
think Barclays offer is fair. I know  this outcome will be a disappointment  to Mr S, so I will 
explain why. 
The transfers from the euro account to the current account 
Mr S has provided a screenshot of his online banking  facility that he took when he made the 
payments. It shows he could transfer  up to £250,000 at a time between his accounts  and 
that he could make as many transfers as he liked each day. 
In the help and guidance section of Mr Ss screenshot, it says transfers  into your Smart 
Investor account can take up to 30 minutes  to complete. All other transfers  are processed 
immediately if sufficient  funds are available in the account youre transferring from.  
Barclays agree that a personal customer can make a transfer  of up to £250,000 a time 
between their Barclays accounts if cleared funds are available. So I can appreciate why Mr S 
expected the money to be credited to his current account straight  away  when he initiated the 
transfers at around  4.30pm that afternoon. I can also understand his alarm when almost  
€400,000 vanished seemingly without trace. 
Ref: DRN66416283Throughout this complaint,  Mr S has wanted to establish why the transfers  were  not made 
immediately, in line with the information he could see at the time. In its final response, 
Barclays explained that its system can pick up payments for extra  screening.  
It is unfortunate the telephone operatives Mr S spoke to that evening did not explain  this at 
that time.  It may have alleviated some  of Mr Ss concern to know that his life savings had not 
been lost. 
Fraud is a major problem for banks. They should be taking proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character transactions  that could 
potentially involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This means that there are circumstances, 
irrespective of the payment channel used, where a bank should,  in my opinion, fairly and 
reasonably take additional  steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, 
or in some cases decline to make  a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from 
the possibility  of financial harm. 
The general terms and conditions for Barclays customers explain that the bank can stop a 
payment if it reasonably  thinks it is necessary  to protect the security of an account or if it 
suspects there could be unauthorised or fraudulent use. They  go on to say that there  could 
be a delay whilst checks are made, even if everything turns  out to be fine. 
Barclays hasnt gone into great detail about its fraud measures and the circumstances when 
they may apply. I wouldnt expect  it to do so either- sharing specific  details about payments it 
may wish to verify more  closely would  undermine the integrity of its security systems. But 
activities that can indicate fraud include  transfers  to other accounts, sudden changes  to the 
operation of an account, a withdrawal or payment for a large  amount  and a payment or 
series of payments  to a new payee.  So its not surprising that the payments Mr S wanted to 
make were  flagged up for further investigation.  
The transfers were  credited to Mr Ss current account the next morning. Although the 
payments took longer than Mr S was anticipating,  I cant see that hes lost out as a result.  
From what  Ive seen, neither the euro account  or the current  account attracted credit 
interest. In addition, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mr S incurred any additional fees 
or charges as result of the transfers being made  later than he was expecting. In any event, 
the transfers appear to have been faster  payments, which  can still take up to a working day 
to process in some circumstances.  
I do appreciate there is a delicate balance to be struck when monitoring for potentially 
fraudulent activity. Mr S is free to use his own money as he wants and when genuine 
transactions are picked  up for further checks, that inevitably causes some  degree of 
inconvenience. But I dont  think Barclays  has acted  unfairly or made a mistake by delaying 
the two transfers.  
I fully appreciate they were payments Mr S wanted to make,  but that doesnt mean that 
Barclays has done anything wrong  by taking  verification steps intended to protect  him. 
The debit balance  showing on the current account 
Mr S wanted  to move the money from the current account on to an account held elsewhere. 
He wasnt able to move all of the money  at once  and instead had to send a proportion  of it 
each day.
Ref: DRN66416284Mr S has provided a screenshot to show that when he sent the first payment, the balance  in 
the current account showed as being  overdrawn by over £44,000. He suggests  the money 
was not actually in the account  when he tried to make the payment.
Ive not seen anything to suggest there were insufficient funds to make the first £50,000 
payment. The banks records do show that Mr S had first tried to make a payment of 
£325,000 which failed because it was too large.
Barclays has explained that its online banking system is designed to show credits and debits 
separately which can sometimes show an interim debit balance. It has confirmed that Mr S 
hasnt been financially disadvantaged by this and no debit interest was applied. 
I recognise Mr S considers Barclays online systems  to be poor.  But Im not a regulator and 
I have no power to compel Barclays to change its systems. Operational  issues such as this 
fall within  the remit of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. What I can look at is if 
these systems have caused Mr S to suffer a financial loss and if Barclays has treated him 
fairly and reasonably. The available evidence doesnt show theres been any financial loss to 
Mr S due to the way Barclays  online banking system shows credits and debits. Nor does it 
show Mr S was unable to carry out his intended  online  banking  functions and activities due 
to this issue.
The transfers being repeatedly caught  by the banks fraud detection system 
Earlier in this provisional decision  I have gone  into detail about the steps I think banks ought 
to fairly and reasonably take to protect customers that could be at the risk of financial harm. 
Much of what I have already said is equally as relevant to the payments Mr S wanted to 
make to the account  held elsewhere as they also referred for further checks. 
Mr S might think  the checks made were over zealous. Hes suggested  there was a clear 
indication that the transfers  were valid and there was no need for the bank to make  any 
further checks on them before approving them. He highlights that the payments were going 
to the same  payee  and for similar  amounts. He felt the bank should have detected this 
emerging pattern and realised it was no longer  unusual. 
Ive been able to listen to recordings of conversations  where  its clear  that Mr S was caused 
some inconvenience  as a result  of the further  checks needed on these payments. But I dont 
think Barclays has made a mistake or acted unfairly  by taking extra steps  to verify the 
payments before making  them. As I have already indicated earlier  in this decision,  transfers  
to other  accounts, sudden  changes to the operation  of an account, payments for a large  
amount or a series of payments to a new payee can be indicators that a customer is at risk 
of financial harm. The changing nature of fraud  and scams means banks need to be vigilant, 
especially when patterns of spending show hallmarks that could indicate financial harm.  
It follows that I dont think the bank  did anything  wrong by further investigating each transfer  
before allowing it to be made. 
Poor service 
From reading Mr Ss correspondence and listening to the available call recordings of the 
conversations he had with Barclays, its clear  he feels strongly about how the banks 
systems and online procedures are set up. Hes also raised  concerns around  how Barclays  
handled the complaint. 
Ref: DRN66416285I can only consider Barclays activities that are covered by our service, i.e. the administration  
of Mr Ss bank  account ancillary to the regulated activity of deposit taking. DISP  2.3.1R 
states:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if 
it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the 
following activities:
(1)regulated activities (other than auction  regulation bidding and 
administering a benchmark);

(6) providing ancillary banking services;
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried  on by the firm in connection 
with them.
For reference the Compulsory Jurisdiction is defined in the FCA Handbooks  Glossary  (the 
Glossary) as:
"The jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service  to which  firms ... are compulsorily  
subject." 
Further, a complaint is defined in the Glossary as:
"any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or 
on behalf  of, a person  about  the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service 
 which: 
(a)alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, 
material distress  or material inconvenience; and 
(b)relates to an activity of that respondent ... in marketing or providing financial 
services or products, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service."
A financial service is not defined in the FCAs Handbook or relevant legislation. However, the 
scope of what constitutes a financial service was considered  by the High Court  in 
Mazarona Properties Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service  [2017] EWHC 1135  (Admin). 
At paragraph  30 Mr Justice Mitting stated:
A financial service is commonly  and rightly  understood to mean the provision of a 
service of a financial nature to a customer in connection with his or her personal  or 
Ref: DRN66416286business affairs not the payment  of compensation for the manner  in which that 
service was provided.
Applying the law to the facts of Mr Ss complaint, I cannot  consider it so far as it concerns 
the overall  quality of Barclays complaint handling  because that is not a financial service. 
This means Im not able to tell Barclays  how it should deal with and handle complaints, nor 
can I make any order or award specifically for this, even if Barclays handling of the 
complaint fell short.
I can look at the substance of the complaint and issues relating to the payments Mr S was 
attempting to make. But when I examined the payments  in depth earlier in this provisional 
decision, I found Barclays  hadnt  made a mistake or acted unfairly about the main parts of 
the complaint. My consideration of Mr Ss correspondence and available  call recordings 
does not change my conclusions in relation to those aspects of the complaint I am able to 
consider.
Although Barclays hasnt broken any rules  or regulations,  it recognised that Mr Ss 
experience had been poor, especially when he phoned to try and find out what  had 
happened to the large transfers from the euro current account. Barclays recognised  this and 
offered £200 compensation. I appreciate that Mr S may not feel that offer goes  far enough.  
Hes provided an itemised phone  bill to show hes had to make at least  ten calls to Barclays  
in connection  with these issues. Whilst the cost of the calls was included  in his airtime plan, 
hes still spent over three hours  talking to the bank. As I explained, I cannot look at the 
complaint to the extent  it concerns the standard of Barclays complaint handling, which is not 
a financial service. 
But, as far as Mr Ss correspondence and the available call recordings are relevant to the 
elements of the complaint I can consider  that is they are relevant evidence in my 
consideration of a complaint about the regulated activity of deposit  taking and those activities 
ancillary to the provision  of banking services  which are within  our jurisdiction to consider  
I have concluded that Barclays  neither made  a mistake nor acted unfairly. Therefore, I do not 
consider it fair and reasonable to make an award of compensation  to Mr S. 
responses to my provisional  decision  
Barclays did not respond to my provisional  decision.  
Mr S did not accept the provisional decision. He said there were two separate  strands to his 
complaint and I had confused them into one issue.
He pointed out the most important issue was the problems experienced with the transfer of 
funds from the euro account to the current account.  He believes Barclays  are withholding a 
particular call recording because it is incriminating. He added that there was no mention of 
the transfer being subject  to additional checks in any correspondence  from Barclays  and it 
didnt make sense why they would need  to do further checks on an internal transfer.  
Ref: DRN66416287Mr S highlighted the rest of the complaint involved the process  and poor customer  service  he 
received when transferring funds from the current account to his account held elsewhere.  
He suggested  there  were  many aspects of this that I had overlooked  and glossed over. He 
suggested either I had not understood the process  or that I felt Barclays customer  service 
was perfectly acceptable. 
I contacted Mr S and asked him if he wished to provide further details of the aspects of the 
complaint he felt I had overlooked and glossed  over. Mr S responded to say he had already 
detailed his perspective in previous correspondence and he did not point me to anything in 
particular in that previous correspondence.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about what  Mr S has 
said throughout the case and in response to my provisional decision. Having done so, I am 
not persuaded that I should  uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S has suggested Barclays are withholding a call recording he had with a particular 
member of staff because it incriminates the bank. I can appreciate Mr S distrusts  the banks 
submissions because it has been able to locate  recordings of other  conversations  that took 
place, but not this one specifically. The bank has not disputed  that the phone call Mr S refers  
to took place. Mr S recalls  he was told in this call that the bank had made  mistakes  and that 
it apologised for the problems  hed encountered. He suggests the banks employee said she 
would call him back with a resolution,  but never did. Ive no reason to disbelieve  what Mr S 
has been able to recall about  the call, especially  as there are parallels with what  Mr S can 
remember and what the bank wrote in its final response letter and in the more detailed letter 
following it. 
In Barclays final response  letter, it said that the service Mr S received when calling the bank 
had been poor and recognised hed spent a long time on the phone.  It suggested feedback 
had been provided to the managers of the advisors  that hed spoke with and offered £200  
compensation to recognise the inconvenience  Mr S had been  caused. Although  the banks 
investigation into Mr Ss concerns highlighted calls that could have gone better, it didnt go 
so far as to say it had acted unfairly or made a mistake by taking verification steps in relation 
to the transfers  that were intended  to protect  Mr S. 
The final response  letter explained that the banks system can pick up payments for extra  
screening. It acknowledged that every payment Mr S had made had been screened. This is 
technically correct. The bank did undertake internal checks on the transfers from the euro 
account to the current account and then required verification checks  for each onwards 
transfer.
In the further letter  Barclays sent to Mr S following its final response, it said that most 
transfers are immediate, but some can get picked  up for additional security checks, which  is 
a normal process to safeguard customer accounts.  So I dont agree with Mr Ss position that 
Barclays did not mention  that transferring funds from the euro account to the current  account 
did not happen immediately as they were subject to additional checks. Activities  that could 
be indicative  of fraud  or financial harm  can result in payments, including  internal transfers, 
requiring further checks. Nothing Mr S has said has persuaded me Barclays  were wrong to 
monitor his payments or that it acted unfairly  by doing so. Banks and building  societies often 
undertake checks to comply with their statutory and regulatory requirements. 
Ref: DRN66416288Mr S did not provide  any specific details of the issues he felt I had overlooked or glossed  
over in relation  to the customer service  he received  when transferring the funds from the 
current account to his account elsewhere. 
I have noted the obstacles and difficulties Mr S has described facing when trying  to 
understand what had happened to his money and then move it around.  However,  I am only 
able to make  an award of compensation in relation to matters which I have the jurisdiction to 
consider. I have explained that the ombudsman services jurisdiction is limited to considering  
those aspects of Mr Ss complaint that relate  to regulated  activities.  
To reiterate,  I cannot consider the complaint so far as it concerns the overall quality of 
Barclays complaint handling  because that is not a financial service. This means Im not able 
to tell Barclays how it should deal with and handle complaints, nor can I make any order or 
award specifically  for this, even if I were to agree  that Barclays handling of the complaint fell 
short. I understand this will cause Mr S some  disappointment. However, the relevant  limits  
on the ombudsman  services jurisdiction are clearly set out in my provisional decision and in 
full in Chapter  2 of the DISP Rules, which can be found in full in the FCAs Handbook. 
As far as the aspects  of Mr Ss complaint which I am able to consider are concerned  that 
is, a complaint about the delays to the transfers from the euro account to the current  
account, and Barclays decision  to investigate each transfer out of the current  account  before 
allowing it to be made  for the reasons I have already explained, I do not consider Barclays  
acted unfairly nor made a mistake. I consider that it was reasonable for Barclays to take 
proactive steps  intended to help protect  its customers, including Mr S, from the possibility of 
financial harm.
Barclays agreed  with Mr S that there were occasions when its service fell below what he was 
entitled to expect.  It offered £200  compensation to acknowledge the inconvenience he was 
caused. I can appreciate  Mr S feels this does not go far enough to recognise the stress and 
anxiety he experienced. But as I have concluded that Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in 
in respect of those aspects of Mr Ss complaint I can consider, I cannot  I make an award of 
compensation in this case. Mr S should  contact  Barclays directly if he now wishes to accept 
its offer. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN6641628