K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank plc closed his accounts and recorded  a CIFAS marker 
against his name. CIFAS is one of the UKs fraud  alert services.
Background
Mr A says his account was taken over and he knew nothing about the transactions which 
took place on his account during February  2018. He says hes finding it difficult to open 
another bank  account and his mental  health has been affected by the impact this is having 
on him.
HSBC said a credit of £2,000 received on 9 February 2018  was reported as fraudulent.  The 
money was used, within a few days, through various ATM and retail transactions.  Some  
money was also transferred to and from Mr As savings  account with HSBC.  HSBC says that 
when it contacted Mr A to ask about  the transaction, his answers were inconsistent and 
vague. In April 2018, it closed his accounts.  Before it did so, and as a gesture of goodwill 
bearing in mind Mr As young age, it credited the account to bring it to a zero balance.
Around four months later, Mr A complained to HSBC  about the closure of his accounts and 
the fraud marker, but HSBC didnt uphold the complaint so Mr A referred it to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He set out in some 
detail the relevance  of the payment Services Regulations 2017  and the CIFAS requirements  
for recording a marker. He concluded that Mr A either carried out the transactions or 
authorised someone  else to do so on his behalf.  And he thought there  was enough  evidence  
for HSBC to record a CIFAS marker.
Mr A didnt agree. He said,  in summary, that:
He told the bank the money was from a friend because he was being  threatened and 
was frightened to tell the truth. He has no evidence  of the threats, but that doesnt  mean  
its untrue.
He never said he was sure hed lost his card in a coffee shop. And he changed his 
version of events because of the threats  he received.  
He reported this to the police, but was told to raise it with the bank.
Mr A explained  how this situation  has impacted on him and how the stress has affected  
his mental health.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN62950142Mr As testimony
Mr As testimony has been  largely inconsistent and I will refer to these inconsistencies  later 
in my decision. This sheds some doubt on what hes told us. Mr A says his testimony 
changed because, during his communications with HSBC, he was being threatened. He 
says he received around four to five text messages for about four weeks from around  the 
second week in February  and that the individual threatening him knew  his home  address. He 
has no evidence of these  threats because, he says, his storage was full and he has since  
changed his phone. If these messages were as he described, I would have thought it 
reasonable for him to have made  sure he kept them. Or I would have expected him to have 
been able to recount in more detail  exactly  what was said in these  messages. 
So without more  detail  about these messages its difficult for me to say that, on balance, 
there was a clear  reason  for his testimony to have changed as much as it has here.  Ill now 
explain what  this means for his complaint  in more detail.
Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr A?
Mr A says his account was taken over and that he knew nothing about  the transactions 
which took place  on his current and savings accounts from 2 to 15 February 2018. This 
included several  transfers between the accounts.  But the evidence here strongly  suggests  
that Mr A was aware  of the transactions, let me explain why I say this.
He didnt dispute the transactions  until 22 March  2018 when the bank asked him to provide 
an explanation.  I would  have expected him to have contacted the bank much earlier than 
that if he thought  someone had taken over his account as described.
During the period he says his account was taken over, there are several transfers  to and 
from his savings account. Typically, a fraudster would look to obtain as much money as they 
could from an account in as short a time as possible. I find it very unlikely that someone  who 
had unauthorised access to Mr As accounts would make transfers between those accounts 
because this wouldnt be of any benefit  to them.
Mr A told HSBC  hed lost his card when his bag was left unattended in a coffee shop on 
2 February. He said he kept his card with his undisguised PIN number written on the back. 
He later told the bank  that hed given his card to a friend on the street;  but then said this 
wasnt a friend, but someone else he didnt really know  so he couldnt provide  a name. He 
told us his PIN was written on a separate piece of paper and that he kept this with his card 
and his online banking  details in a folder which he kept in his bag. He says the information 
was stolen on 28 January when  he left his bag unattended at college.
Mr A says he reported his card as stolen a few days after he realised it was missing.  But 
theres no evidence  of this.
Mr A has not been able to give a consistent  account of how his card, PIN and online banking 
details came into the possession of a third party. Neither do I find any of his accounts  of 
what could have happened here plausible.  For that reason, I think  its most likely that Mr A 
authorised the transactions.
Ref: DRN62950143The CIFAS marker
The £2,000 credited to Mr As account  was a fraudulent transaction  the money  had been 
debited from a third partys account  without their authority or consent. But before placing the 
CIFAS marker  against  Mr As name, HSBC needed  to have a reasonable belief that criminal 
charges could be brought against Mr A as a result of the activity.  A suspicion or concern isnt 
enough. So I need to decide if theres enough  evidence to show  that Mr A knew  more about  
this than hes told us. 
When he was first asked about  the £2,000 credit,  he said it was money  that a friend owed 
him. He later said he knew nothing about the credit. Ive already concluded that Mr As 
account hadnt been taken over and that he authorised the transactions  on the account. So 
I think it most likely  that he also knew about  the fraudulent credit.
As noted by our investigator,  CIFASs  standards  for recording a marker are very high. But 
I think there is enough information  here for a marker  to be placed against Mr A. A financial 
crime was committed  money was paid into his account from a third party account without 
their authority. The money was withdrawn shortly  afterwards using Mr As online banking log 
in and his card and PIN. Theres no evidence that this information had been compromised. 
Taking all of this together, this all points to Mr A knowing  more about the transactions  than 
hes told us. And I think HSBC does have  enough  evidence to report  this matter  to the 
police.
In reaching this decision I have taken into account  the impact  that the marker has had on 
Mr A, particularly in view of his young age. But, unfortunately for Mr A, this doesnt change  
my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.  
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6295014