K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Santander  UK Plc wouldnt let them port their mortgage to 
another property  they owned  and then applied an early repayment  charge (ERC) when  they 
repaid their mortgage.  They  say the ERC is unreasonable and disproportionate.  
background
In 2017, Mr and Mrs R arranged a fixed interest rate product on their Santander mortgage. 
An ERC applied  if the mortgage was repaid up until 2 January 2019.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs R spoke to Santander. They said they were planning to sell their home  
to move to another property they already owned.  They wanted to avoid paying the ERC. 
Santander said the only way to avoid  the ERC would be to port or transfer  the mortgage to 
another property.  But Santander wouldnt allow that as its policy was that a mortgage  could  
only be ported to a property that was being bought  not one already owned by the borrower.
In August  2018,  Mr and Mrs R repaid the mortgage. Santander applied an ERC of 
£7,214.79.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs R responded  to re-emphasise  that they thought ERC was unreasonable. They  
pointed out that there were only five monthly  payments totalling £992 remaining to be paid 
during the tie-in period  on the mortgage. That would  have been a reasonable way for 
Santander to estimate  its costs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santanders policy
Im satisfied that Santander has a policy in place where it doesnt allow  borrowers to transfer 
or port an existing  mortgage to a property that is already owned by the borrowers. I cant see 
that when they took out the mortgage Santander  gave  Mr and Mrs R any assurances that 
they would  be able to port their mortgage  under any circumstances or in the specific  
circumstances here.  
I think it was legitimate decision for Santander to make whether to allow a mortgage to be 
ported to property already owned  by the borrower   and I cant  see that it has applied its 
policy unfairly in the individual circumstances  of this complaint. I dont consider that 
Santander has acted  unfairly by not permitting Mr and Mrs R to port the mortgage to a 
property they already  owned.
fairness of ERC
Mr and Mrs R dont dispute  that when they took out the mortgage they accepted  all the terms 
of the mortgage   and that included the ERC. I think the ERC was set out clearly and 
prominently in the mortgage paperwork and met the requirements of the relevant rules.
Ref: DRN67007912As Mr and Mrs R repaid the mortgage  during the tie-in  period, Santander  was entitled to 
apply the ERC. It doesnt, however, have a free hand to set whatever ERC it wants. The 
rules say that the ERC  must be a reasonable pre-estimate  of the cost to the lender of the 
mortgage being repaid  early. And those rules are one of the things I must take into account  
in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint.
It is for Santander to demonstrate to me the reasonableness of the method it uses for 
estimating the ERC. It has provided  a breakdown of the various elements it takes  into 
account in estimating the ERC and evidence to support  the assumptions it has made. 
Santander says this information is commercially sensitive  and I have accepted it in 
confidence as Im allowed to under our rules.  Id note that the estimate is made  across  a 
tranche of mortgages  and the nature of an estimate is that the actual cost to the lender might 
be more or less than the ERC   but it gives certainty  to the borrower  of the maximum 
amount they could  pay.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs point that they think Santander will only have lost out on their 
mortgage payments  for the remaining  fixed rate period   and that would be less than £1,000. 
But Ive already explained that the ERC isnt (and doesnt have to be) calculated  on 
Mr and Mrs Rs individual  mortgage or reflect the loss to Santander on their mortgage. 
Santander has shown  that it has taken into account a number of different elements in 
calculating the ERC.  These elements include its costs  in administering the mortgage, other 
costs relating to the way that mortgages are funded  and its expectations of the amount it will 
earn from its borrowers. So I dont agree that Santanders estimate would limited to the 
payments it has lost out on until the end of the fixed rate period.  
Looking at the information Santander  has provided,  I consider it has shown that it calculated  
the ERC  in a fair and reasonable  way. As Mr and Mrs R agreed  to the ERC when they took 
the mortgage product and it has been  applied in line with the agreement  they entered  into  I 
dont consider it has been applied unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6700791