K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as Moneyboat, made  a 
mistake when it tried to collect a payment. Mr W says it led to embarrassment  and financial  
loss.
Since this complaint has been with this service Mr W has complained  about  being harassed 
by Moneyboat in relation to its debt collection activities.
background and findings
I attach my provisional decision dated 12 November 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision and should be read with it. In it I explained that I did not need to consider the merits 
of the complaint as Moneyboat had accepted that it made a mistake  and so that was, and is, 
undisputed. 
I looked at whether I thought that the compensation offered by Moneyboat was enough for 
Mr W. And in my provisional  decision I explained why I intended  to uphold Mr Ws complaint 
in part, and why I could not come  to any conclusions on one aspect of Mr Ws complaint due 
to lack of information from both parties. 
Both parties  had time to provide any further comments or evidence they may have had, and 
to send it to me by 26 November 2019 before I reached a further decision.
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
As I have not been sent anything additional for me to consider, either from Mr W or 
Moneyboat, then I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached  in my provisional 
decision on 12 November 2019. This is attached to this Final Decision and so those 
conclusions are set out in it.
putting things right
I understand that this loan has been  passed to third party debt collectors quite recently  but 
Moneyboat still owns  the debt. 
Moneyboat needs  to put things right by removing all unpaid interest and charges on this loan 
(including any that a third-party debt collector may have added) and making good its original 
offer that the principal amount of £200  only be repaid by Mr W. 
Mr W has already  paid some money towards  this loan which  should  be calculated as credits 
to his loan account, and any outstanding balance ought to be repaid by Mr W. Repayment 
ought to be by way of a mutually  agreeable repayment plan unless Mr W is able to repay the 
full amount in one payment. 
I remind Moneyboat for the need  to treat Mr W fairly and sympathetically if he is 
experiencing any financial difficulties. 
Ref: DRN67453372I would expect Moneyboat  to amend  Mr Ws credit file to remove  any adverse payment 
details which  may have been added  and once the loan has been repaid that it be reported in 
the usual way as settled.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part, and I direct that 
Evergreen Finance  London Limited, trading as Moneyboat, do as I have directed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67453373my provisional decision dated 12 November 2019
background
Mr W had a loan with Moneyboat.  In November 2017 it was paid off using a different card to the one 
he usually used. Mr W has explained that card was linked to the joint account with his partner. 
In early 2018 Mr W took another loan for £200 and on 28 February  2018 one payment was taken from 
the card linked with the joint account instead of the one he had given Moneyboat which was linked to 
his personal  account.  Mr Ws partner noticed, raised it with Mr W and consequences  followed which  
Mr W says has caused  him embarrassment and financial loss.
Moneyboat has admitted that the mistake was made and has apologised in writing, given an 
explanation and has confirmed that the debit card details  linked to the joint account have been  
removed from its system. Moneyboat offered to resolve the complaint by reducing Mr Ws balance.  
That equated  to a reduction of just over £77. It said in its final response letter  in May 2018:  
As such, I am offering to reduce your outstanding balance  from £188.79 to £111.41, which will ensure  
that you only repay  the amount that you borrowed in February 2018 with no additional  interest.  I can 
confirm that you are also able to repay this amount over numerous monthly instalments  if you do not 
wish to clear it in one repayment.
I believe the above to be fair based on the error that we made, and I do not consider it reasonable to 
charge you interest  on this loan for this purpose. 
Mr W did not accept that and brought his complaint here. He has explained that his partner was very 
upset and would not let him stay in her accommodation. Mr W says this meant that he incurred 
alternative accommodation costs, and this caused him stress and inconvenience. It resulted  in him 
needing to take time off sick from work  and he incurred expenses from travelling to a hospital  for 
some treatment. 
Mr W brought his complaint here asking for the balance  of the loan to be written off and asking for 
compensation for the costs of the hotel,  time off work and travel. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at it and accepted Mr Ws explanation that it cost him embarrassment  
and distress. She thought that Moneyboat should write  off the outstanding balance  on the loan to 
compensate him fully. 
Mr W has told us in April 2019 that he felt that Moneyboat was harassing him in the way it was 
chasing him for the debt. So, our adjudicator wrote  to Moneyboat asking for its response to her view 
from February 2019 and asking it to respond as soon as possible  as Mr W was being  repeatedly 
chased for payments.   
Moneyboat apologised  for not responding earlier and asked for some evidence of the additional  cost 
claim Mr W had made. It says that during  the complaint correspondence with it in 2018 these 
additional costs were  never raised. 
Moneyboat made  no mention of the fact it was chasing Mr W for the outstanding  debt.
Our adjudicators second  view was to explain  to Moneyboat that her recommendation that the balance 
be written off was for the distress and inconvenience  not for the direct repayment of Mr Ws claimed 
costs. 
The complaint was unresolved and has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN67453374my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time.
compensating Mr W for the mistake by Moneyboat
I do not need  to consider  the merits of the complaint as Moneyboat has accepted that it made a 
mistake and so that is undisputed.  I have looked at whether I think that the recompense offered by 
Moneyboat was enough  for Mr W. 
On balance I think that it was. I will explain why.
It would not be a reasonably foreseeable consequence of Moneyboats mistake that Mr Ws partner 
would react in such a way that Mr W would need to arrange alternative accommodation. The costs of 
a hotel, travel to hospitals  and costs Mr W says he has incurred for taking time off work are too 
remote for me to think that these were able to be appropriate redress.  
I think  that for a mistake  such  as this where Moneyboat has accepted that it would have  caused Mr W 
trouble and upset, the compensation offer was adequate and proportionate. Moneyboat has, 
effectively, made his February 2018 £200 loan interest free.
So, I do not agree that the correct redress is for the loan principal to be written off. Mr W will have had 
the benefit  of that £200 and it would  be disproportionate  for Moneyboat not to receive it back. 
Unless I receive anything further, I plan to uphold Mr Ws complaint about the mistake Moneyboat  
made and I endorse Moneyboats original offer. Due to the passage of time, in order to honour the 
original offer, it may lead to more of a reduction than the £77 which  was calculated in May 2018. 
debt collection 
On the point  that Mr W has felt that he was being harassed by Moneyboat for the debt then I do not 
have very much on this. 
From Mr W I have one copy  email from him dated  21 March 2019  asking a Moneyboat  representative 
to stop contacting  him. I have listened  to a call Mr W had with one of our adjudicators on 9 May 2019 
in which he describes  being  chased by Moneyboat by letter and he had received  calls at work. I have 
also listened  to the call Mr W made to us on 29 October 2019 saying that the debt had been passed 
to a third-party debt collection agency. He wished  to add this to his complaint against Moneyboat.  
Moneyboat has confirmed  that the debt was passed to a collector on 22 October 2019. Apart from 
that I have  not seen  anything from Moneyboat about this part of Mr Ws complaint. It was given a 
chance to respond about the debt chasing when our adjudicator wrote  to it in May 2019.  She said:  
In addition, [Mr W] has been  in touch to advise that he is being repeatedly  chased for payments.  Can 
you please look into this and provide me with an update as soon  as possible,  and no later than 13 
May 2019?
Moneyboat did respond about the main complaint,  but not in relation  to the chasing of the debt. 
As this is a provisional decision, if either party can send to me more on this point I can come to some 
conclusions. But at the moment, I do not have enough to uphold Mr Ws complaint  about this.
Ref: DRN67453375putting things  right
I understand that this loan has been passed to third party debt collectors recently but Moneyboat still 
owns the debt. 
So, I am planning  to ask that Moneyboat puts things right by removing all unpaid interest  and charges 
on this loan (including any that a third-party debt collector may have added) and making good its 
original offer that the principal amount of £200 only be repaid. 
Mr W has already paid some  money towards this loan which  should be calculated as credits to his 
loan account, and any outstanding balance  ought to be repaid by Mr W. Repayment ought to be by 
way of a mutually  agreeable repayment plan unless  Mr W is able to repay the full amount in one 
payment. 
I would expect  Moneyboat to amend Mr Ws credit  file to remove any adverse payment details which  
may have been added and once the loan has been repaid that it be reported  in the usual way as 
settled.  
end of extract 
Ref: DRN6745337