K820x#14complaint
Mr H1 and his brother  Mr H2, as executors, complain on behalf of Mrs and Mr Hs (their 
parents) estate. 
Mr H1 says his parents  investments were  incorrectly  administered by Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited.  
background
In my provisional decision of 19 May 2020, a copy of which is attached  and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
Sun Life responded and said that it agreed  with my findings and had no further points to add. 
Mr H1 also responded but didnt accept my provisional findings. In short,  he said that he 
didnt think that Sun Life had treated  his parents  fairly or administered  the bonds  correctly. 
Despite Sun Life stating in its welcome letter that if his parents lived for seven years  theyd 
be exempt from inheritance tax, it made  no mention that if income wasnt  taken the bonds 
would no longer be in trust, and therefore  would fall back within the estate. 
Mr H1 also highlighted inconstancies  in the documentation provided, that he says led to 
confusion and possibly  misunderstanding with his parents,  all of which  evidence  Sun Lifes 
poor administration of the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusion  regarding  this complaint, remains  as set out previously. So, I 
still think it should not be upheld, and for the same reasons. 
Despite what Mr H1 says,  overall  I dont consider that any new points have been raised, 
other than those key points already  made and considered by me in my provisional decision. 
Ive considered all the points  that I consider relevant to my decision and therefore I can 
proceed to make my final decision.  
My decision  remains that on the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  what Mr H1 
says, Im not persuaded that his parents wouldve behaved differently given what they were 
led to believe (at the point  of sale) about  how the Inheritance Trust Policy would work. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Mr H1, I still think its likely  that they thought that after 
seven years the bonds were exempt  from any IHT liability and therefore wouldnt have 
sought further advice or thought twice before reinvesting their money.  Its principally for this 
reason I dont uphold this complaint regarding the administration of the policy. 
As I mentioned in provisional decision theres a separate complaint made about the sale of 
the policy, which Ive also dealt with and upheld   and awarded  redress that in my opinion  
overall covers much  of the points raised by Mr H1, which in my opinion  is attributed to the 
mis-sale.  
Ref: DRN60047682I still think Mr H1s and Mr H2s parents, as trustees and owners of the bonds, were in a 
good position to decide what  to do with the bonds, which  it seems  they did at each of the 
reversionary dates, based on their understanding of the product  that goes back  to the sale of 
the bonds. In the circumstances, despite what  Mr H1 says, Ive seen nothing  to suggest that 
his parents couldnt have exercised their judgement reasonably. 
I appreciate that there was some  inconsistent information provided  by Sun Life, but as Ive 
said in my provisional decision overall  Im not persuaded  that Sun Life, notwithstanding  the 
errors, hasnt overall administered the product in the way that it was set up  which  was to 
revert the bonds back  to Mr H1s and H2s parents over a period of three to thirteen years  
and let them  decide what they wanted  to do with their funds. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr H2 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN60047683COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr H1 and his brother Mr H2, as executors, complain on behalf of Mrs and Mr Hs (their  parents) 
estate. 
Mr H1 says his parents investments were incorrectly administered by Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited. 
background
Mr H1s and Mr H2s parents took out Inheritance Trust Policy in 1994 for inheritance  tax (IHT)  
planning purposes. Over  the years, sections of the bond matured and returned to the estate.  
Mr H1 says that on at least two separate occasions  his parents were told that the bonds were  held in 
trust, outside of their estate  for IHT purposes. Mr H1 says that had his parents been given the correct  
information they wouldve taken action to remedy the situation and reverted the bonds back  in trust to 
be held outside  of their estate. 
Mr H1, upon  obtaining probate,  was informed  by Sun Life that the investments were  within his 
parents estate and therefore liable to IHT in the sum of £33,278. As a result he believes that he and 
Mr H2 (as beneficiaries of the estate) have  lost out.   
Sun Life hasnt upheld the complaint. It says that Mr H1s parents were  informed of what  was going  
on  by way of intermittent  reversionary letters  and they chose to reinvest their money  rather  than 
take it out.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  He thought  that 
Sun Life had provided  inconsistent information regarding whether (or not) the IHT bonds were held in 
trust outside of the estate  and therefore  Mr H1 and Mr H2s parents were  deprived of the opportunity 
to rectify  the situation if they werent held in trust. Hes recommended that Sun Life pay the IHT 
liability on the bonds  in the sum of £33,279 with interest  from 13 August 2018 (when it arose),  to 
the date of settlement. 
Sun Life rejected  the investigators view. In summary, it says:
Mr H1s and Mr H2s parents were aware  of what was happening with the policy  and were  
content for matters to progress  as they did. In other words, they were  aware  that the bonds 
were reverting  back to them, outside of the trust, and forming part of the estate.    
The maturity option form dated 25 March  2005, states allow the bond to revert out of trust 
and remain invested  until further  notice. It doesnt say the bond will be in trust, and all bonds 
matured and reverted  to the estate prior to 5 March 2005 without any issues being raised. 
It acknowledges that the wording in the 2005 letter was incorrect however it doesnt accept 
that the Mr Hs parents  wouldve done anything differently even if the letter  contained  the 
correct wording.  
The investigator having  considered the additional points wasnt persuaded  to change his mind. He felt 
that if Mr H1s and Mr H2s parents werent made aware  that the bond was coming out of trust and 
reverting back to them  and therefore to their estate,  where it was likely  to attract a potential  IHT 
liability, they wouldve taken  action to avoid this happening.  
Mr H1 maintains that the information provided  was misleading and confusing, as thered  be no other 
point to his parents placing the bonds in trust other than for the purposes of IHT planning. He believes  
that his parents estate isnt being treated fairly and the only way to do so is to pay the IHT liability in 
full which he believes  is slightly higher  at £33,278. 
Ref: DRN60047684As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, provisionally Im not minded to uphold this 
complaint. 
Theres a separate complaint made about the sale of the policy, which Ive also dealt with and 
provisionally upheld. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what Mr H1 says, Im not persuaded that his 
parents wouldve behaved differently given  what they were led to believe (at the point of sale) about 
how the Inheritance Trust Policy would work. I think its likely that they thought  that after seven years 
the bonds  were exempt from any IHT liability and therefore wouldnt have sought  further advice  or 
thought twice before reinvesting their money.  
I appreciate the point  Mr H1 makes about why else would  his parents have wanted to place the bonds 
in trust, if not to protect them from IHT liability.  Which  is why, on balance, I dont think  they wouldve 
done things differently  despite the inconsistencies in the information provided  by Sun Life. 
On balance Im satisfied that each  time Mr H1s parents elected to have the benefit of the bonds 
revert back  to them  at the reversion date, but allow  the proceeds to remain invested until further 
notice, theyd  done so on the basis of their mis-understanding that their money  was safe from any IHT 
liability.  
I note that some of the reversion letters made clear it may be appropriate for you to review your 
financial situation and the effect any decision you take may have on your inheritance and other taxes 
position with your Financial or Legal Adviser, before making your decision, but as Ive said I dont 
think they thought they needed to do so. 
Im mindful that Mr H1 was the adviser to his parents and therefore  they couldve reached out to him 
to clarify  anything they didnt understand. But I also note what Mr H1 says about his father taking his 
own counsel  and making his own mind up, so thats probably Mr H1s parents didnt seek his advice.  
And I think its unlikely that Mr H1 would  sell the product for IHT mitigation purposes and then not help 
his parents do whats necessary to keep their bonds outside  of their estate. 
That notwithstanding,  I think Mr H1s parents, as trustees and owners of the bonds, were in a good  
position to decide what to do with the bonds, which it seems they did at each of the reversionary 
dates, based on their understanding of the product. In the circumstances, despite what Mr H1 says, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest  that his parents couldnt  have exercised their decision without authority 
from Mr H1 and Mr H2.
In other words, I dont  think  Mr H1s parents  instructions required Mr H1s or Mr H2s consent, before 
Sun Life could proceed, so I dont think it was under  any obligation not to proceeds until it had heard 
from Mr H1 and Mr H2, and I note the form only required their parents signature. 
So whether or not Sun Life shouldve also sent reversionary letters  to Mr H1 and Mr H2, it hasnt done 
anything wrong by proceeding on the basis of the signed instructions it received from their parents.  
  
Im mindful of Mr H1s concerns about some documents being doctored, but despite what he says Ive 
seen no evidence that this was the case. 
Ref: DRN60047685I appreciate that there was some inconsistent information provided by Sun Life regarding  whether or 
not the bonds  were held in trust. I note that in 2010 (and 2011 in a letter to their new IFA) prior to the 
final reversion Sun Life confirmed that the bonds  were held in trust outside of the estate. 
Its possible that Mr H1s parents couldve taken  some  action at that point regarding the IHT position  
of their bonds, but Im not persuaded  that this means Sun Life is now liable  to pay the IHT liability 
thats arisen  because  the policy was never set up to cover it in all circumstances. 
Overall Im not persuaded that Sun Life, notwithstanding the errors, hasnt administered the product in 
the way that it was set up  which was to revert the bonds back to Mr H1s and H2s parents over a 
period of three to thirteen years and let them decide what they want to do with their funds. 
I appreciate Mr H1 and Mr H2 will be disappointed Ive reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise  my decision  isnt what they want to hear. Whilst  I appreciate their 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im not minded to 
uphold this complaint.  
Dara Islam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6004768