K822xcomplaint
Mr W and Ms J complain  about the service  they each received from Cofunds Limited, trading 
as Aegon  (the business) following their decision to transfer their funds to a new provider. 
In short,  they say that the business:  
Failed to transfer  their individual funds and cash in a timely manner. 
Prevented  them from accessing their accounts during the transfer process  at a 
volatile time in the market, so causing them  a substantial  financial loss.
Misinformed them about its process and made  serious administrative errors. 
background 
In June 2018, Mr W and Ms J instructed the business  to transfer their individual General 
Investment Account  (GIA)  holdings to a third-party provider in-specie. 
If done correctly their existing funds  would remain invested in the market during the transfer  
process, enabling them to avoid any losses caused  by price fluctuations but making  gains if 
the market did well. Im aware  that the transfer  didnt complete until February 2019.
Mr W and Ms J say they suffered a substantial financial loss of around £64,000 (from  their 
portfolios worth £520,000 and £410,000 respectively)  because they were unable to trade  
during this period. Despite writing to the business they didnt receive  satisfactory answers.    
So in October  2018  Mr W and Ms J complained to the business. Although  it didnt provide a 
final response until February 2019, it upheld the complaint   after the complaint was referred  
to our service  and offered redress (including for financial  loss)  based on the poor service 
provided. 
Whilst Mr J and Ms W welcomed the uphold of the complaint they remain unhappy with the 
redress offered. They  say it doesnt adequately compensate them  for the poor service they 
received, the delays  and the loss of investment opportunity. Theyve  referred the complaint 
to our service.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, she said:
The funds were  transferred in-specie  which means the funds were invested during 
this process. 
There were  two ineligible  funds in their ISA which needed to be liquidated and 
transferred in cash, and the business accepts that there was a delay in the sell down 
of the funds and this placed Mr W and Ms J at a financial disadvantage  of £3,815.50 
and £3,348.51 respectively) and including payment  for trouble and upset and refund 
of charges, which it offered to pay.  
Its right that the business should  pay for the delay  experienced by Mr W and Ms J. 
The process should take 30 days but took eight  months which is unacceptable and 
compensation should be paid for this. 
The losses referred to by Mr W and Ms J are hypothetical, and not actual financial 
losses theyve suffered. Consequently  this isnt something that our service would 
award compensation for. Its also impossible  to know what they wouldve done  at the 
Ref: DRN69567522time so it wouldnt be fair to ask the business to compensate them on the basis 
theyve asked for. 
Whilst they didnt  have access to their accounts, they could have  placed  trades  over 
the phone  or in writing but didnt.   
Mr W and Ms J disagree with the investigators  conclusions. In short, they say:
Their losses arent  hypothetical  but real, and theyve lost out around  10% of the value 
of their investment  because of the delay.  
They say towards the end of the delay  they were locked out of their trading account, 
and unable to see their account and any transactions that might  be taking place  so 
they werent in control of their assets. 
Its immaterial  that the transfer  took place  in-specie as they werent in control of their 
assets at all.
They were prevented from trading on the phone  or in writing as they were  told  by 
their IFA  that the parties involved werent  taking instructions as they couldnt 
access their funds  due to the business  difficulties  in migrating the funds to a new 
platform. 
They dont feel £525 compensation for trouble and upset is fair or adequate. It 
doesnt reflect the distress, worry and inconvenience  caused  or the time theyve 
spent dealing with this matter.
Their event log shows that on over forty occasions they wrote letters, sent emails, 
made telephone  calls,  replied to requests for information and spent a substantial  
amount of time re-establishing  their financial records from old correspondence. The 
total compensation for trouble and upset  wouldnt even pay at the rate of the 
minimum wage.  
The investigator appears to assume that the complaint is solely  about seeking  
financial compensation for the appalling service the business provided in transferring 
their account to a new provider.  
Its likely  theyre  not the only people to have been treated like this by the business  
and hoped that some punitive action might have  been taken to discourage the 
business from doing this to them or others in future. 
The substantial length of delay would suggest  that the business had a catastrophic  
systems failure rather than just an increase  in volume of enquiries.
The business made the following key observations:
It wouldnt be aware of what was discussed between Mr W and Ms J and a third party  
(their IFA). 
It accepts  that there were operational issue following migration to a new platform. 
Thats why the complaint was upheld and compensation offered. 
Had it been aware of an intention to trade  or received a request  it wouldve facilitated 
this request. 
Our investigator made  clear to Mr W and Ms J that it wasnt  our role to punish a business 
that was the role of the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA).  Our 
role is separate  and distinct to the role of the FCA. Our role is to determine if the business 
has done anything  wrong and, if so, thereafter  to decide what  compensation is due to put the 
complainant back  in the position  or as close to the position as possible  they wouldve 
been in but for the error. 
Ref: DRN69567523Mr W and Ms J hope that our service would refer the business to the FCA. They have also 
made our service aware that the last of their stock was transferred only last month.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. 
Im mindful that the business  decided  to uphold this complaint and offer redress  but only 
after the complaint was referred to our service. 
But whilst I uphold this complaint  and think the business decision to uphold this complaint 
was correct  I think its offer of redress is broadly reasonable.  
Im also mindful that Mr W and Ms J have a separate  complaints based  on their individual  
investments, but principally the same complaint  against the business. So in the 
circumstances I think it would be better to deal with matters together  rather  than duplicating 
the same  arguments  which apply in both cases. Im also mindful that the complaints have 
been responded to by both Mr W and Ms J collectively forwarding arguments that apply to 
them both.  
But before I explain  why Im upholding this complaint, I think its important for me to 
recognise Mr W and Ms Js frustration and strength of feeling  about this matter.  Theyve  
provided detailed  submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much  detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and the business,  and reach what I think is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information  
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I appreciate Mr W and Ms J say that they suffered a substantial financial loss but Im not 
satisfied that they did, or if they did (because  of changes in the market  place)  Im not 
satisfied that the business  is responsible for any of these losses.  
Im mindful the funds  were transferred in-specie so to avoid losses  caused by a sudden 
downturn in the market  but also benefit from any potential upturns. In other  words  the funds 
were invested during  this lengthy  transfer process.
Because of this I agree with the investigators  conclusion that the losses Mr W and Ms J 
refer to are likely to be hypothetical, as opposed to actual financial losses,  so arent 
something that our service would award compensation for.   
Ref: DRN69567524I note Mr W and Ms J say they were  unable to trade but, notwithstanding  the difficulties they 
experienced, I understand that they were  still able to trade via the telephone or in writing. 
And no matter how inconvenient  or troublesome these options might have been they were  
still available.
I note they say they were told by a third party  their IFA  that they wouldnt be able to trade 
even over the phone  or in writing because  of the volume  of work the business has to deal 
with, so they didnt.  
If Mr W and Ms J tried to trade   over the phone or in writing  and were  unsuccessful there 
might have been a case to say the business should  be responsible for losses  caused by 
them being  unable to trade.  But in the circumstances I dont think  I can hold the business  
responsible for a decision they made not to trade  based on advice from a third party.  And we 
dont know whether or not they wouldve been  able to trade.  
In other  words if they tried to trade over the phone or in writing and were unable  to do so, I 
might have found they were entitled to additional compensation. But because  theres no 
evidence that Mr W and Ms J tried to trade I dont think the issue  of compensation for the 
loss of ability to trade in this instance  arises.  
That notwithstanding I note Mr W and Ms J were offered compensation as a result of their 
price comparison, which  reflects  how their investment would have  performed had it not been 
for the delay  it its withdrawal process,  which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.   
I note that the business offered compensation for trouble and upset caused by the 
substantial delay plus a refund of the charges for the specific  delayed funds. In the 
circumstances I think the payment  is broadly  fair and reasonable. I appreciate the length of 
time Mr W and Mr J spent  writing  letters, sending emails, making telephone calls and using 
old records to get their finance  back in order. But I think overall the compensation is 
reasonable. 
The payment isnt linked to the minimum wage and isnt payment based on an hourly rate for 
their time its more a modest payment for the trouble caused. 
I dont think Mr W and Ms J are making  this complaint solely  seeking  financial compensation 
I understand that theyre also hoping that thered be a punitive element to any compensation 
awarded so that the business  is unlikely to do this in the future. But as our investigator 
explained earlier its not our role to punish  the business for any wrong doing  thats the role 
of the FCA. Our role is to try and place the consumers  in this instance  Mr W and Ms J - in 
the position they would be in but for the error.   
It may very well be the case  that others were affected by similar  problems. Im conscious 
that it was a very busy time but Im only considering the complaint by Mr W and Ms J. 
I appreciate Mr W and Ms J will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give them  what they want.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN69567525Cofunds Limited should pay Mr M the following redress   amounting  to £3,815.50  less any 
amount already caused:
£3,062.38  for the loss caused  by the delay  in selling the two funds. 
£25.00 compensation for trouble and upset  caused by the delay in providing  the price  
comparison. 
£500.00 compensation for trouble and upset caused by the delays caused. 
£228.12 refund for the annual  charges.  
Cofunds Limited should pay Ms J the following redress  amounting to £3,348.51  less any 
amount already paid:
£2,603.57  for the loss caused  by the delay  in selling the two funds.
£25.00 for trouble and upset  caused by the delay in providing  the price  comparison. 
£500.00 compensation for the trouble  and upset caused by the delays caused. 
£219.94 refund for the annual  charges.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6956752