K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains he was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy in November 1994 when he took out a charge card.
A third party  sold the PPI to Mr R. But Allianz Insurance  Plc as the insurer has accepted  
responsibility for this sale and by extension this complaint.  For the purposes of this decision
Ive referred throughout to Allianz.
background
Mr R bought the policy in November 1994 at the same time as taking out a charge card by 
completing an application form in a store.
Mr R says he did not agree to purchase  PPI and it had been applied to his account without 
his knowledge.  He says he was not made aware the policy  was optional.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint.  Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint because:
 I think Allianz made Mr R aware  that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take 
it. I say this because the application  form used  at the time of sale would have  
required Mr R to tick a box on the application form to say that he wanted the cover 
and add his name in the same section.  
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for him. But it did need to ensure that it provided him with clear information about  the 
policy so that Mr R could make an informed choice about whether to have it. 
 Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But I dont think better information would have put Mr R off from 
having the policy. I say this because although Mr R had 3-6 months sick pay at the 
time of sale, I think he would have benefited  from having  the cover in a time of need  
especially over an extended  period  of time.  It is unlikely Mr R would have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  The policy  was 
competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  better information 
wouldve stopped  him buying it.
In conclusion, I couldnt find a reason to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN65254372my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6525437