K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that CIS General Insurance Limited has unfairly restricted  her claim for 
water damage to her property under her home insurance policy.
background
Mrs C said that when  tenants left the property she rented out, she discovered a leak from the 
bath which  had damaged the walls  and kitchen units. She claimed to CIS on 13 October 
2018 and said the leak occurred two months before. She said the leak was repaired by the 
tenants but they hadnt told her about the damage this had caused.  She told CIS she was 
getting a builder to repair  the ceiling that day. 
CIS said it asked Mrs C to wait before making  repairs so it could validate the claim. Its loss 
adjusters visited the property on 17 October 2018 and said it looked like thered been three 
separate leaks, but the kitchen had been  stripped and some  of the repairs completed.  CIS 
said this made it difficult to assess what had been  damaged by an insured event, or if it was 
general wear and tear. CIS said it didnt look as if the kitchen was in good condition,  but it 
was hard to tell about damage  as it had been left in the garden.
CIS accepted that a leak had damaged some  kitchen units. But Mrs C said this was caused  
by her builder and shes not claiming  for this damage. Mrs C said the escape  of water shes  
claiming for was caused by her the tenant standing on the toilet cistern, which  was pulled 
away from the wall and cracked, but she said shes not claiming for the toilet.
CIS said Mrs Cs policy requires  her to report a claim as soon as possible. It said by making 
some repairs  and stripping the kitchen, she prejudiced its ability  to validate  her claim. CIS 
said Mrs C hadnt mitigated her loss, but it agreed to pay for the kitchen ceiling and two 
kitchen units,  at a cost of £801.45 + VAT.  CIS thought this is what  its liability  would  have 
been if the claim been reported in a timely  manner. It also thought  that as there  were  three  
separate leaks, it could  have asked her to make  three claims and pay three  excesses.
Mrs C complained to CIS that it hadnt included  all of her damaged kitchen in its settlement 
and the units that werent damaged should  be covered because they wont match. She said 
like-for-like costs hadnt been  offered  for the two kitchen units. And she said there had been 
a lack of communication and no response to an email that she sent to CISs loss adjuster.
CIS responded that the policy required Mrs C to report any claim as soon  as possible and 
not to dispose of damaged items without its consent.  It said Mrs C is also required to take all 
reasonable precautions to reduce the risk of a claim arising. It said her kitchen had been 
stripped and some repairs carried out. It said the loss adjuster couldnt validate the damage 
and the kitchen units were  left in the garden and had become damaged by being left outside.
CIS said it covered  two kitchen units and the ceiling as this was likely to have been being 
damaged by one of the bathroom leaks. It said it had offered a like-for-like settlement for the 
kitchen units based on what  was confirmed with the loss adjuster.  It said its loss adjusters 
hadnt received  one of Mrs Cs emails but apologised  for dealing  with her complaint late and 
paid her £25 compensation.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said Mrs C hadnt been  able 
to say which of the other kitchen units had been  damaged by water.  And he thought that she 
Ref: DRN60463782had prejudiced CISs ability  to validate the claim by removing the kitchen  and having  repairs 
done. He thought CISs payment in respect  of ceiling repair  and two kitchen units was fair.
Mrs C disagreed. She said there was only one escape of water and this was from the toilet  
cistern and this had damaged the kitchen  including the units. She said she reported  the 
claim as soon as she became aware and would  have  reported it sooner had she known. She 
said she should be offered the VAT on any payment from CIS and it hadnt responded to her 
claim for loss of rent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs C has raised a number of points 
within her complaint. I hope she doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I havent addressed 
every point and have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points.
Insurers only cover claims where they are satisfied that damage occurred as a result of an 
insured event. These are listed in Mrs Cs policy booklet and include an escape of water. 
CIS is satisfied theres been an escape of water, in fact it thinks  there were three escapes. 
But it has said that Mrs C has affected  its ability to assess the damage by removing kitchen 
units and doing  some of the repairs, such as to the ceiling.
There are exclusions within Mrs Cs policy for damage due to wear  and tear and gradually 
operating causes. There are also conditions that require her to report any claim as soon as 
possible and to minimise damage  and ensure that any claim can be validated by CIS. It is for 
CIS to show  that a claim shouldnt be met for reasons  of an exclusion or that policy 
conditions havent  been adhered to. 
The surveyor for CISs loss adjuster said that the kitchen units  werent in good  condition, but 
he couldnt work out what has been damaged by an escape of water as they had been  
removed. Mrs C says more than two units were water damaged,  but she hasnt  told us which 
of the other units were  affected or provided  any photos showing this damage . I can 
understand the reasons  why Mrs C wanted her property repaired quickly, but I think  she 
should at least  have waited until CIS had the opportunity to inspect the damage.  After  all, it 
is for her to prove the claim  she is making.
Mrs C said there was only one significant escape of water and that from the toilet cistern.  
Ive seen no reason  to doubt this, but the link between this and the extensive damage to Mrs 
Cs kitchen that she has claimed, must be proved, and that is her responsibility. Mrs C 
wanted CIS to pay for a new work surface,  cornice or pelmet, tiles and her ceiling repairs.  
CIS didnt  think these were all damaged by an escape of water. The photos show  some 
damage, but I cant say they show damage  from an escape of water.  Again, it is Mrs Cs 
responsibility to show  the damage for which she claims  comes  from an insured peril,  and I 
dont think shes done that.
Mrs C replaced  all of her kitchen and wanted  CIS to pay for undamaged units that she had to 
replace so that the kitchen matched. Her policy only provides cover  for damaged  items and 
so CIS wasnt required to pay for her undamaged units. Given  the circumstances  and that it 
has only found two units damaged by water, I dont think it would be fair to require CIS to 
pay any more.
Ref: DRN60463783From what  Ive seen I dont think Mrs C complied with the conditions of her policy  that I have 
described. CIS has offered Mrs C a sum based  on the quote from its contractors for two of 
the kitchen units  and ceiling repairs and I think this is what  its entitled to do under the policy.  
I think CISs offer on Mrs Cs claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as this is 
what it assessed its liability  was likely  to have been  had the claim been reported sooner.
Escape of water claims are by their nature stressful for the policyholder to deal with, but Im 
pleased CIS has acknowledged  some poor service. And I recommend  CIS reissue  its 
cheque of £25 for this in Mrs Cs name.  I recommend Mrs C accept  CISs  offer for her claim 
of £801.45 plus VAT.
Mrs C said CIS hadnt responded to her loss of rent claim  and she wants  compensation for 
her loss through its delays and handling  of her claim. Mrs Cs policy is a residential home 
insurance policy rather than a landlords policy, but it does include cover for loss of rent. I 
havent seen details of a claim from Mrs C and CIS said it hasnt considered  this. Because  
there is cover, Mrs C can make  a claim for loss of rent and CIS should consider it. If Mrs C 
remains dissatisfied with the outcome, she can then bring a new complaint  to our service . 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6046378