K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says MBNA Limited mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in May 2000. 
The policy was added  to Mrs Js credit  card account when she applied  for the card by post. It 
protected her credit card monthly repayments  in the event of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagrees, so the complaint has been  
referred to me. 
Mrs J mainly complains  that she wasnt aware  of the policy. Mrs J told us that she wouldve 
declined PPI if shed  been made aware  of it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint because:
the application Mrs J filled in gave a brief overall  description indicating what the cover  
was for. And it set out the cost  right next to where Mrs J ticked a box saying Yes 
to the policy. There  was a No option  she couldve ticked  instead  if she hadnt 
wanted PPI. So I find that MBNA made  Mrs J aware  that the PPI was optional and 
she chose to take it.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But it did still have  to give Mrs J enough information to be able to make  a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for her  and if it didnt do this, Ive 
thought about whether that makes any overall  difference  to what  happened.
Its possible some of the information  MBNA  gave Mrs J about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mrs J doesnt  appear  to have had other means  to make her 
credit card repayments if she couldnt  work.  The policy wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months if Mrs J lost her job unexpectedly and she was out of work. And in the 
event of accident or sickness the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit  for as long 
as Mrs J was off work. So I think that Mrs J couldve benefitted from the PPI. 
Mrs J wasnt  affected by any of the main  conditions that mightve limited the policys  
benefit to her. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think  that knowing more 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve made any difference  to Mrs Js decision 
to take out the cover.  
Ref: DRN62228362I dont think MBNA  properly explained  what the policy would cost, or what  it might 
pay out if Mrs J made a claim. But MBNA  made Mrs J aware that shed be charged 
68p per £100 of her statement  balance. And, even if she hadnt fully appreciated how 
much this would  actually be on a month to month basis, Mrs J chose to take out the 
policy when she didnt  have  to  so she seems  to have wanted it. And it appears the 
policy was affordable for her when she signed  up for it. She couldve cancelled  it at 
any time if she decided she didnt want to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  her, I think it unlikely Mrs J wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy.
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because:  
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs J about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mrs J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs J.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
I understand Mrs J has been  in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Her former  IVA 
supervisor has expressed an interest in any compensation  Mrs J might  receive.  Mrs J and 
MBNA Limited should bear in mind Mrs Js obligations under that IVA in respect  of any 
compensation she gets and make sure it is paid to the right person(s). 
A copy of this decision will be sent to her former  IVA supervisor. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6222836