K821x#15complaint
Mrs I complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) didnt stop a cheque as 
shed asked it to; that it contacted the payee without her knowledge; and that shes  
unhappy with the way it handled her complaint.
To settle matters shed  like compensation for breach  of confidentiality, for the distress 
caused and for the time its taken her to deal with things.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was proposing to partly uphold  Mrs Is 
complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Nationwide is in agreement with my provisional decision. Mrs I also accepts my 
provisional findings but shes raised  some concerns about how this service has dealt with 
her complaint. I can see that this issue has been addressed  in correspondence from the 
investigator to Mrs I so for clarity  I wont be considering this point as part of this complaint  
about Nationwide.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties are in agreement with my provisional  decision,  I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I set out in it.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, and in my attached provisional decision I uphold Mrs Is 
complaint in part and I direct  Nationwide Building Society to pay £300  save insofar as any 
part of this award  has already been  paid by Nationwide  Building  Society  to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68593872COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs I complains  that Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide) didnt  stop a cheque  as shed asked 
it to; that it contacted the payee without her knowledge; and that shes unhappy with the way it 
handled her complaint.
To settle  matters shed like compensation  for breach of confidentiality, for the distress  
caused and for the time its taken her to deal with things.
background
In June 2017  Mrs I asked  Nationwide  to stop two cheques. Nationwide explained that it was unable 
to cancel one cheque because  itd already been processed. It tried to stop the second  cheque  but 
the consultant couldnt do so due to an error  message on the Nationwide system.
Nationwide said it would call Mrs I back at the end of the day with an update.  But Mrs I says this 
never happened.  Nationwide wasnt able to find any record of the consultant ringing  her back either. 
But it explained its system  doesnt record unsuccessful calls, and so it might have attempted  calls. It 
also said the phone number Mrs I had given  provided  to the consultant didnt work.
The consultant logged the error message internally  with Nationwides  I.T. department. But this wasnt 
actioned until a few days later by which  time the cheque had been processed and paid.
Nationwide upheld Mrs Is complaint about  the level of service  shed received and paid £100 
compensation. Mrs I was also asked to get in touch if she hadnt received a refund from the payee - 
in which case Nationwide would investigate further. Mrs I later replied to say the payee hadnt 
refunded her and hadnt responded to her letters either. Nationwide then contacted the payee itself 
and asked it to confirm  in writing to Mrs I what had been done  with the proceeds of the cheque  itd 
cashed.
Unhappy with Nationwides response Mrs I referred her complaint to our service. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend her complaint should be upheld. She thought £100 was satisfactory for 
Nationwides delay and she noted  that Nationwide  had also provided £50 additional compensation  
due to the confusion caused  by its numerous replies. The adjudicator also didnt think  there had 
been any breach of confidentiality when Nationwide contacted the payee.
Mrs I disagreed  with the adjudicators view. The original  adjudicator left our service  and 
Mrs I provided detailed  comments to us which were considered by a different  adjudicator. In line with 
our approach as an informal dispute resolution service, Ive summarised what  I consider to be her 
main concerns  and the adjudicators response below:-
     it isnt acceptable for Nationwide to contact the payee without her consent. She says this 
is a breach  of her privacy and confidentiality. In response, the adjudicator explained  that 
we cant comment  on whether or not theres a breach of data protection but we can look 
at whether theres a breach of confidentiality. He didnt think  there was a breach of 
confidentiality because Nationwide  confirmed it didnt give any information to the payee 
that it didnt already have.  The adjudicator  also noted that it was unfortunate Nationwide  
couldnt locate the call recording  but he noted that banks  arent obliged to record calls.
    Nationwide said it could do nothing once the money  left her account so why then did it 
contact the payee  without her knowledge or consent and in spite of her marking  her 
correspondence as private and confidential? The adjudicator recognised  that Mrs I felt 
very strongly but he thought  Nationwide  contacted the payee in good faith to attempt to 
Ref: DRN68593873resolve her complaint. He had no evidence  to suggest Nationwide revealed  any 
confidential information, so whilst she would  have preferred Nationwide not to have 
contacted the payee he couldnt say it acted unfairly in doing  so.
     Mrs I says its not acceptable that Nationwides complaint handler investigated his own 
actions. Our adjudicator  didnt  think this was the case, because the member of staff 
explained in his letter in March 2018 that hed contacted the payee and he explained  
why in the subsequent letter in May 2018. The adjudicator also noted that a further letter 
was written by a different Nationwide  member of staff in July 2018.
    she thinks we should deal with any data protection breach instead of her having  to 
bring her dispute  to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
    she thinks were  more  concerned about the lack of definitive content  of the call made  to 
the payee, rather  than that a call was made without her knowledge or approval. And she 
reiterates that a Nationwide member of staff investigated his own actions because  the 
letter hed written was headed  saying  it was a review of her complaint. In response,  the 
adjudicator thought this referred to her complaint  as a whole rather than an investigation 
of the particular  ground of complaint about  the member of staff contacting the payee.
Mrs I has now asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs I feels very strongly about the way shes been treated  by Nationwide. Shes  
made very detailed  comments to our service and Id like to reassure her that Ive reviewed  the 
information both parties have provided.
I must firstly explain  that there are some  aspects of Mrs Is complaint that I cant  consider. 
Strictly speaking, we dont have power to look at the way financial businesses deal with 
complaints  as complaint  handling isnt a regulated  activity under  the legislation that governs  
our service. So, even  if I did think  Nationwide  hadnt dealt with Mrs Is complaint well, I wouldnt 
be able to uphold that element of her concerns or make an award. So, I wont spend any time in 
this decision on Mrs Is concerns that a member  of Nationwides  staff investigated their own 
actions. Ill deal solely  with whether Nationwide  acted fairly and reasonably when  it wasnt able 
to stop Mrs Is cheque.
The adjudicator has already explained that we cant decide  if a business has breached  data 
protection laws  thats the role of the ICO. But we are able to look at whether its fair and 
reasonable to award compensation  for any impact the problem shes suffered has caused. And we 
can look at whether Nationwide kept Mrs Is information  private.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide copies  of the call recordings it made to the payee. Its 
understandable that Mrs Is concerned about this. However, its not always possible for us to 
obtain all the information  wed like from a business and, where this is the case, we make our 
decisions based on the information available.
Im surprised Nationwide contacted the payee and I can understand  why Mrs Is concerned about  
this. I think  Nationwide  contacted the payee to try to help her, because  it did so after Mrs I told it that 
the payee  hadnt refunded her and she also hadnt received any reply  to the letters  shed written  to 
the it either. However, I think it was strange that Nationwide contacted  the payee directly  - especially 
as Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs I asked  it to do this.
As Nationwide hasnt been able to provide  copies of its calls to the payee I have  no way of 
knowing what  was discussed.
Ref: DRN68593874Nationwide has confirmed it didnt disclose any information that the payee didnt  already have about 
Mrs I. I agree with this to a certain extent  because by the time Nationwide  contacted the payee, the 
cheque had already been cashed some time earlier. So the payee will have known  or could have  
found out - that Mrs I had a banking relationship with Nationwide anyway. And as the cheque had 
already been cashed  by this point theres nothing to suggest, for example, that contact by 
Nationwide caused  the payee to cash the cheque earlier than would otherwise have been the case. 
But I think its more likely than not that Nationwide breached  its duty of confidentiality to Mrs I 
because I think it must have disclosed some very basic information about her in order to reach the 
point where  it could ask it to update Mrs I directly.
On balance, I think this was unfair. But from the information Ive seen I dont think  the impact on Mrs I 
has been significant for the reasons Ive given in the paragraph above. Ill take this into account 
when addressing the impact of Nationwides actions as a whole below.
Its not disputed that Mrs I asked Nationwide  to cancel an uncashed cheque. And Nationwide upheld 
Mrs Is complaint about the level of service itd provided. So I need to consider whether the £150 
compensation it gave is fair and reasonable  here. On balance I dont think it is. I think  a fair outcome 
is for Nationwide  to increase  its compensation from £150  to £300. So Ill explain why.
Mrs I has confirmed that she didnt  incur account charges and her account  didnt go 
overdrawn as a result  of the cheque not being cancelled.
Ive listened carefully to the call Mrs I made to Nationwide  when she asked for her cheque to be 
cancelled. She explained that the cheque was for arrears  due to the payee  and shed already paid 
the amount due from a different account.  However, she was receiving  threatening letters and the 
payee hadnt confirmed  itd received her earlier payment, so she decided to pay the amount again. 
Then when  she found out that her earlier cheque had in fact been cashed she asked Nationwide to 
stop the cheque to free-up  money so she could make  repairs to a property.
From the information Ive seen it appears that the payee applied the proceeds of the cashed cheque  
against future  amounts  payable by Mrs I. And as a result  I think Mrs Is overall  financial position 
worsened because this accelerated  payment to the payee of future amounts which werent yet due for 
payment by Mrs I. Its clear Mrs I didnt want  this to happen  especially  as she explained that shed 
paid the invoice already - and she planned to use the money for a specific purpose which she wasnt 
able to do.
I dont think its fair to ask Nationwide to repay the full amount of the cheque  that was cashed 
because Mrs I has had some benefit  in the sense that its relieved her from future  liabilities that 
would have become due to the payee. But I think she has been inconvenienced because  she wanted 
to use the money to make repairs to a property so she could let it. Its not easy  to quantify  the impact 
this mistake has had on Mrs I but, on balance  - for the reasons  given above - I think  a fair outcome is 
for Nationwide to increase  its compensation to £300.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that to resolve this complaint, I intend to require  Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mrs I £300 compensation,  save insofar as any part of this award has already been 
paid.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6859387