K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr C says Canada  Square Operations Limited (then Egg) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr C feels  strongly  that he was made to believe that if he didnt take out PPI he wouldnt 
get the credit card. He applied  for the credit card and PPI on-line. Ive seen the way the 
PPI is likely to have  been presented as part of the credit card application process. It 
seems the section about PPI said Do you want Card Repayment Protection?  Mr C then 
had to answer yes or no. This is nothing to suggest he wouldnt get the credit  card if he 
said no. And PPI was only added because he said yes. So I think Egg made it clear that 
Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
The information Egg gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
the on-line application  form did explain this protection will cover  your monthly payments 
in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  It also set out that it would cost 
74p per £100 of Mr Cs monthly statement balance.  So it seems  Mr C would have known 
the type of cover he would get and had an idea about how much  it would cost.  And he 
chose to take out the PPI based on this information - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover and was happy to pay for it  despite what hes said about  not needing it 
because of the benefits he would  have got from his employer at the time and the savings 
he had.
Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  So I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr C about  that. Because Egg didnt  tell Mr C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN64077742my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6407774