K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) made
several increases  to the credit  limit on her credit  cards  without  following the rules  of 
responsible lending. This led to her suffering financial hardship.
Background
Mrs H opened two Barclaycard credit  cards,  one in 2003 and the other in 2009.
Mrs H has complained that the increases  to the credit limits on both cards were  implemented 
by Barclaycard without  informing  her, and without enough checks  to ensure the lending was 
affordable, thus causing financial hardship. She also said that Barclaycard knew  of her 
financial difficulties and her mental health issues but did not offer support.
In their response, Barclaycard  rejected  her complaints. They  said that each  increase was 
offered in accordance with the rules, and two of them were increased at Mrs Hs request. To 
ensure they were affordable they were preceded by both credit checks  and by using their 
own evidence from accounts and prior lending. They said they had no reason to suspect 
Mrs H was suffering from any financial hardship as she had kept her accounts in good  order,  
and she had never informed them of any mental health issues she was suffering.
Mrs H didnt accept their response so brought the matter to our service.
The investigator first looked at how long Mrs H had held the credit cards and when the credit 
increases occurred. This is because the rules  we are governed by set time limits on what we 
can investigate.  As she explained in her view,  the investigator decided that the credit 
increases prior to July 2013 were outside of the time limits in which a consumer can 
complain to us. This means she was only able to investigate  the circumstances around the 
increases from 1 July 2013 onwards, unless Barclaycard had given their permission to look 
at events before this date. They hadnt.
The investigator examined whether Barclaycard reasonably assessed Mrs Hs ability  to 
repay what she was borrowing. They explained  their procedures when increasing credit  
limits and the type of information they seek,  using  both their own records  and that of credit  
reference agencies.  They also provided details of how the increase  is offered in writing, 
including the option for the consumer  to refuse  the increase and showed that the increase is 
displayed on the customers credit card statement.
The investigator compared these processes to what was required by the Office  of Fair 
Trading (OFT),  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the UK Cards Association best 
practice and found  from the evidence supplied these were  followed correctly.
The investigators view was that the increases provided by Barclaycard  were not 
irresponsible and were  made after making  reasonable creditworthiness  assessments. She 
also felt it would have  been unlikely that Barclaycard would have  known or suspected  that 
Mrs H may be in financial difficulties as they were satisfied Mrs H was managing her 
accounts well, making every payment required and generally not exceeding her credit limits.
The investigator was also satisfied that it was likely  that Mrs H was aware  of the increases to 
the credit  limits even  though she said she hadnt been informed, due to each of them  being  
Ref: DRN64604182documented on her monthly statements. She was also aware that she could change the 
limits if she felt they were  too high as she had done  so previously.
The investigator also felt it was unlikely that Barclaycard knew  that Mrs H had mental  health 
problems. 
Mrs H did not accept  the investigators  views  that the lending  had been responsible and in 
accordance with the rules, and that Barclaycard  hadnt known about her financial  difficulties  
or mental  health  issues, so the matter  has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly, as an ombudsman I can only deal with complaints where I have the power  to do so. 
Those powers are set out in our rules, and one area of restriction  is time limits. Having 
looked at the circumstances,  I share  the investigators view that any credit  increases made  
more than six years before Mrs H brought  her complaint are outside  the time limits  in our 
rules. This hasnt been disputed by Mrs H, so I wont expand on this point other than to say 
that my decision will only deal with the circumstances of the credit increases since late 
2012 - the earliest of these being July 2013.  
So now I move  on to my decision about  the circumstances of the credit increases  that are 
within our jurisdiction. 
I have taken into account the regulatory  rules and good industry practice  at the time the 
credit increases were  offered, and what I can see Barclaycard have done in this case  and 
whether this was fair in Mrs Hs circumstances. I have also considered the credit reference 
agency report Mrs H has provided. This shows not only her repayment  history,  but also her 
level of debt across other lenders.
I agree  with the investigators view in that I do not consider the credit increases provided 
were irresponsible. I think they were offered with sufficient consideration of their affordability,  
in accordance with the rules and good  practice,  and that Barclaycard had no reason to know  
or suspect  Mrs H was suffering financial hardship  or was vulnerable due to mental health 
issues. Ill explain why.
The OFT published  guidance for creditors around irresponsible  lending  and this was 
replaced in 2014 by the FCA Consumer Credit  Sourcebook rules (CONC) which set out a 
lenders obligations  when it comes to providing  credit. The former was in place  for the first 
credit increase I have  considered, but they both have the following general principles:
A lender must carry out proportionate checks to determine whether  credit (and significant 
increases to credit limits) was, as far as the lender could tell, affordable  and sustainable and 
would not adversely affect the customer. A proportionate check will depend  on many things, 
such as what a lender  knows  about  the customer, size of credit,  term for repayment, and 
their lending history. The detail  sought while considering a rise would be expected to be 
more in-depth the more  significant the increase  is.
Barclaycard have shared their internal process and what they bear in mind  when considering  
increasing credit limits.  Having examined  these, I think they comply with the OFT and FCA 
Ref: DRN64604183rules (CONC  5.2A) which says the business must consider how the increase may adversely 
impact the customers financial situation. It should do this, as Barclaycard did, by taking into 
account things  like:
the information it already has about the customer at the time of the increase.
the lending  history of the customer and how they have previously managed their 
account.
information obtained from a credit reference agency
In Mrs Hs case, they have also shown how, when  considering offering the credit increases, 
both proactive and reactive to her request,  this process was applied to ensure affordability.  
I can see they have  not only looked at how Mrs H managed her credit accounts (she had not 
missed a payment,  regularly made  more than the minimum  payment and on occasion 
cleared the balance to zero), but have taken into account information  shown  on her credit  
file, her regular income and outgoings on her current account,  that she had no outstanding 
court judgments or debt defaults, and her level of borrowing across  other  lenders. I think 
these checks were  reasonable  in her circumstances.
I need to consider whether Barclaycard either knew or suspected that Mrs H may be 
suffering financial  hardship.  Only making  the minimum payments on a credit card account 
can be an indication of this, however  Mrs H didnt always follow  this pattern - as Ive said 
above, she cleared  her balance on both cards on several occasions. The balance  on the 
accounts only went close to the credit  limit twice; the first was when she made  a large 
purchase (double glazing)  and requested  the increase on one card herself. The second was 
immediately prior to a large payment into both accounts, apparently from a secured loan, 
which was likely to be a more cost-effective method  of managing the debt.  
Other than these occasions, the balance  on both cards was significantly below the maximum  
level of available  credit  offered  by Barclaycard. I dont think the credit  increases themselves 
were actually the cause  of the financial problems Mrs H may be currently  experiencing.
I have also looked  at how Mrs H has managed  her current account to see if this suggests 
any financial  difficulties. Her account hardly  ever went  overdrawn,  and there  were  regular 
payments in and out which were balanced.  I have also considered her other current  account  
which she holds jointly with her husband. This account, although often in debit, was 
generally managed  within  their agreed overdraft or emergency spending limit, had regular 
incoming salary payments  which normally returned  the account  into credit and was 
frequently balanced with transfers  from the credit in her own current  account. 
All this information led me to the opinion that Barclaycard could not reasonably  be expected  
to have known  or suspected she was in financial  hardship.
When it comes  to communicating  with a customer regarding credit  increases, the UK Cards 
Association best practice gives the following guidance:
the card issuer should give 30 days notice of the increase.
it should offer the customer the option to reject the increase  in writing, online or by 
telephone.
Mrs H has said she was not informed  of the credit  increases. As Ive said above, there may 
have been some discrepancy  in the address Barclaycard had on record,  but it was Mrs Hs 
Ref: DRN64604184responsibility to ensure  Barclaycard were  updated with a new address. Even if she did not 
receive the letters that were sent, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mrs H was 
aware of the increases as they were printed on her statements,  which she received 
electronically. Even if Mrs H didnt receive the specific  information  regarding her rights  to 
reject the increase, I dont think this made any difference as she was aware she could adjust 
the levels should she wish, as she has done so twice. Therefore, I do not think Barclaycard 
should have done any more in this regard.
Mrs H has said that she told Barclaycard she was suffering  from mental health issues, and 
despite knowing this, they offered no help. I have listened to the telephone call during  which  
she thought it likely  that she informed them. Her health was not discussed. I have also 
looked at Barclaycards customer notes and contact  log and have found no record of this 
being discussed. I am not calling into question Mrs Hs truthfulness here, just that while she 
probably did have  this conversation, on balance it may have been with someone other than 
Barclaycard, and she may be mistaken in her belief that she told them.
I am aware  that Mrs H has lost her main source  of income this year and can understand how 
this has added to the financial difficulties she is now facing. This must  be a very stressful 
time and I feel sorry for her. I would  urge her to speak to Barclaycard if she feels she is 
unable to manage the debt, or to get advice from www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk who can 
provide impartial  debt advice.
That said,  when looking at the process that Barclaycard followed when raising  her credit 
limits, their considerations, and how they applied  these  to Mrs Hs circumstances  at that 
time, I cannot conclude  they acted irresponsibly. The change to her circumstances was not 
something that they reasonably could  have foreseen.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6460418