K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Barclays Bank UK PLC misadvised him to pay a cheque into his personal, 
rather than business,  account. He says the cheque took longer to clear than he thought,  
which led him to fear a business deal would fall through. He says the stress of this brought  
on a heart  attack,  and he wants Barclays to pay for his medical costs.
background
Mr R had a business  bank account  with Barclays, and in July 2018 he opened  a personal 
bank account  too. A month  or so later he paid a cheque for around £4,000 into his personal 
account.
A few days  later, Mr R was abroad on business,  and checked  his account balance.  He says 
he needed the cheque proceeds  to complete a business deal and wanted to make sure the 
funds had cleared.  But his account balance was showing as significantly overdrawn,  so he 
called Barclays to find out what had happened.
Barclays explained that because the account  was relatively new, and the cheque was for a 
substantial sum, it had been  earmarked  for additional checks  and so a restriction  had been  
placed on his account in the meantime. Mr R told Barclays he needed  the money within  a 
few days, but it said it couldnt guarantee it would clear within  that time unless he could go 
into a branch with identification.
Mr R said this worried him greatly, as hed already  paid £30,000 to a supplier and that 
money was at risk of being lost if he couldnt pay the balance.  Shortly after he spoke to 
Barclays Mr R had a heart  attack, and needed  to be treated  in a local hospital in the country 
he was visiting.
He complained to Barclays a few days later. He said it had told him to pay the cheque into 
his personal account  to avoid paying  a fee, but if hed put it in his business account it would 
have cleared earlier and he wouldnt have suffered the stress and worry which  caused  his 
heart attack.  He said Barclays should pay for the cost of his treatment.
Barclays acknowledged it hadnt given Mr R very good service when he rang to query the 
delayed clearance  of his cheque. It said it hadnt taken into account the urgency of the 
situation or how worried Mr R was. It apologised and paid Mr R £200 to say sorry. 
Mr R thought Barclays should still pay him for his medical costs  which  he said were  around 
£2,000. So he brought his complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said I didnt think  Barclays needed to do anything 
more than give Mr R the apology and £200  it already had. I said:
the stop on Mr Rs account
Mr R says the stress and worry which caused  his heart attack  was a result of thinking 
his cheque wouldnt clear  in time to pay his supplier. The clearance of the cheque took 
a few days longer  than normal because Barclays was carrying out enhanced security  
checks. It did this because of the value of the payment and how new the account was.
Ref: DRN62682162I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to have carried  out additional 
checks in line with its obligations to protect  its customers from fraud, and to prevent 
money laundering.
Mr Rs unhappy that while this was happening  his account was showing as overdrawn. 
Barclays has explained this was to prevent funds being taken out of the account while 
its checks were  carried  out. I think it was reasonable for Barclays to have put a hold on 
Mr Rs account and I can see it explained  what was happening when he rang to query 
his balance. So I dont  think  Barclays has done anything wrong in the way it dealt with 
Mr Rs cheque.
paying the cheque into Mr Rs account
One of the reasons for the additional  checks on Mr Rs payment was that it was being 
put into his personal  account. He says Barclays advised him to do so in order  to avoid 
paying a fee. Barclays  says it didnt. I give both their testimonies equal weight, and so 
Ive had to decide, on balance, what I thinks more  likely than not to have happened.
The member  of staff who dealt with Mr R on the day says he doesnt remember  the 
transaction. But hes said there isnt a difference in fee for paying a cheque into a 
personal or a business account  so he wouldnt have told Mr R to use one over the 
other.
It turns out thats not the case, and theres a small fee of around £1.50  for paying 
cheques into the type of business account  Mr R holds. But given the staff members  
belief that there wasnt a charge, I find it unlikely  hed have  advised  Mr R to use one 
account in particular to pay in his cheque.  
Mr R himself has said he was aware  of the fee but given the small amount he didnt 
mind paying  it, and had done so in the past. I think this adds to the likelihood  Mr R 
wouldnt have used  a different account  on Barclayss  advice,  simply to avoid the fee.
Barclays also says it doesnt  like its customers to use their personal accounts for 
business purposes, which is common  across  the banking industry. Taking all of this 
into account, I think its more likely  than not Mr R asked to pay his cheque  into his 
personal account, but Barclays  didnt advise him to do so.
Given I dont think Barclays told Mr R to use that account, and Im satisfied it acted 
reasonably in carrying out checks  on the payment before allowing it to clear, it follows  
that I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for anything that happened afterwards.
But even if the member of staff had told Mr R to pay his cheque  into his personal 
account, I dont  think  that staff member would have known, or thought it likely, that the 
cheque would be subject  to the further  scrutiny that followed  resulting in its clearance 
being delayed.  So I still wouldnt  think it would  be fair to hold Barclays responsible for 
the consequences of that.
Mr Rs heart  attack
Even if Im wrong about the above,  and Mr R discovering his cheque might not clear in 
time was Barclayss fault, Im not satisfied it would be fair to require it to pay for Mr Rs 
hospital bill. I say this for a couple of reasons.
Ref: DRN62682163Firstly, while  the situation would clearly have worried Mr R, thats not at all the same 
thing as saying  it caused a heart attack. There are a number of potential causes of a 
heart attack  and Mr R hasnt been able to provide any medical opinion as to the cause  
of the one he experienced. There may well have  been other reasons or factors  which 
contributed to his heart attack, and I cant conclude that the cheque not clearing is the 
most likely cause of it. 
I also note that once the cheque did clear, from Mr Rs bank statements it appears 
those funds were transferred into a savings account in the name of a family member. 
So its not clear  to me at this point that the money he was due to receive from the 
cheque was in fact crucial  to his ability to carry out the business hed travelled abroad 
to conduct.
So while I have sympathy for the difficult experience Mr R went  through  while abroad,  I 
dont think Barclays was responsible for what happened to him and so I dont think  it 
needs to cover his medical expenses.
Barclays has, however,  acknowledged it could have been more helpful when it spoke 
to Mr R, and shown more  empathy  for the situation  he found himself in. Its paid him 
£200 to say sorry for that, which I think is fair.
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision.  Mr R did, and in summary he said:
I gave Barclayss version of events more  weight than his, and it isnt plausible that 
the cashier didnt  know there were different fees for paying a cheque into his 
business account.
Mr R had previously paid large cheques into his business account, so hed have 
done that again if Barclays hadnt encouraged him to use his personal account.
When the funds  cleared  he simply moved  the money somewhere else as he was 
worried about being able to access it. He then used it to pay his supplier the same 
day.
Its obvious the situation  with Mr Rs cheque  caused his heart attack. He provided an 
email from the hospital where he was treated which  he said showed that was the 
case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I know  it will be 
disappointing to Mr R, Ive not been  persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions.  Ill 
explain why.
In order to think it was fair for Barclays to pay for Mr Rs medical  costs,  Id need to be 
satisfied the delay in Mr Rs cheque clearing was as a result of some error or fault on 
Barclayss part.
I remain of the view that the additional checks Barclays carried  out on the transaction  were 
reasonable. And Mr R seems to agree with that, too. These checks  probably wouldnt have 
been needed if Mr R hadnt paid the cheque into his personal account. But Im still not 
persuaded he used that account  because Barclays wrongly encouraged him to do so.
Ref: DRN62682164For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision I think its unlikely Barclays advised him to 
use his personal  account  to pay in the cheque. While the cashier didnt  remember  the 
specific transaction, he said thered be no difference in cost between  paying into the two 
different accounts.  Thats not right, but I find it unlikely that if the cashier  thought it was the 
case that hed have recommended Mr R use one account over the other. Further,  Barclays  
(like most banks)  prefers its customers not to use personal accounts for business 
transactions. 
I acknowledge Mr R has said he usually used his business account for this sort of cheque so 
wouldnt have used  a different account  unless hed been told to. Ive thought  carefully about 
this. I dont know why Mr R paid this particular cheque into his personal account,  but I have 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats more likely than not to have happened.  And 
given the above, I still think its more likely than not that Barclays  didnt tell Mr R which  
account to use.
As I dont think Barclays is responsible for the account Mr R paid his cheque into, and the 
checks which delayed it clearing were  reasonable, it follows  that Barclays shouldnt  fairly be 
held responsible for anything that happened as a result,  including Mr Rs medical costs.
But even if it was Barclayss  fault Mr R paid his cheque into that account, I dont think it 
would mean  it was responsible for the medical costs Mr R is claiming for.
Im still not persuaded the delay  in the cheque  clearing  could  be said to have directly caused 
Mr Rs heart  attack. Ive considered the email  hes provided from the hospital that treated 
him. This says that his heart attack  was due to distress and anxiety. But its not a medical  
report from a doctor, its an email from the hospitals administrative department. And Im 
mindful that Mr R was abroad, combining a family holiday with a business  deal hes said was 
very important to him. Given the number of reasons which may have caused or contributed 
to Mr Rs health and condition which led to him having a heart attack, I cant  fairly say that 
the delay in clearing the cheque was the most  likely or significant.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6268216