K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about Pinnacle Insurance Plc and their rejection of her claim. 
background
Ms M had a policy covering her pet, and tried to make a claim for a heart problem. This was 
rejected as a previous claim for heart  issues  had started over a year ago, and the policy 
limited cover  to 12 months from original treatment. Ms M thought  that Pinnacle hadnt made 
this clear and that as she had continued to pay for the policy  this lack of cover  was unfair, so 
she complained  to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter but did not uphold Ms Ms complaint. As she 
didnt agree the case has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too wont be upholding the complaint, for the same reasons as the adjudicator. 
Ive looked carefully  at Ms Ms policy, and I agree  with the adjudicator that the 12 month  limit 
on cover  is pretty clear  in the document. Also as this is an important restriction  on cover Ive 
also checked it is in the key facts  information, it is, and again is fairly clear  that claims after 
12 months are not covered. So I dont think I can uphold Ms Ms complaint on that basis. 
Ive considered also the fairness aspect of this and whether Pinnacle should have suggested 
Ms M stop her policy, but I dont think they should  have. The policy  clause only limited cover 
for items claimed for previously, any new condition would have been covered as usual, and 
in an animal of Ms Ms pets age there are unfortunately many other issues  that can occur,  
and the policy could have provided valuable cover for these. So I dont  think  Pinnacle acted 
incorrectly by not suggesting the policy be stopped.  So I dont uphold  this complaint. 
I would though like to express  my sympathy to Ms M for the passing of her pet since the 
claim incident occurred.  
my final decision
I make  no award against Pinnacle Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6643578