K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  unfairly applied  a limit to a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy for a stolen mobile phone.
background
Mr and Mrs Is policy provides cover under various different sections, including  contents  
and cover away from home. Their policy schedule gives an overview of their cover, and 
sets out the monetary limits that apply  to each section. Further terms and conditions are 
contained in the policy booklet.
Under the contents section of the policy schedule there are maximum limits  for various  
items, including mobile phones: £150. This section only covers contents in the home.
Under the cover away from home section of the policy schedule the only limit detailed is for 
personal possessions:  £2,000. This section covers  personal possessions outside  the home; 
and the policy defines personal  possessions as portable items which  are designed  to be 
worn or carried.
Admiral accepted the claim  but it said the £150 mobile phone limit applied. But Mr and Mrs I 
say because the item was stolen outside of their home the only limit that should  apply is the 
£2,000 limit for personal  possessions.  Admiral  says the loss shouldnt  be considered under 
the separate section that covers personal  possessions away from the home because the 
limit for mobile phones  is clearly stated as an individual  section of cover.  
Mr and Mrs I referred their complaint to our service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. But he didnt think Admiral had applied the policy terms unreasonably. 
Because Mr and Mrs I disagreed, their complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 June 2019. I explained that I intended  to uphold the 
complaint. In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint. I disagree with Admirals interpretation of 
the policy schedule  and terms. The policy does not provide  a separate  section of cover  for 
mobile phones   theres simply a limit for mobile  phones that are lost or damaged due to 
insured events that occur in the home.  That limit doesnt apply here as the loss occurred  
outside the home. 
Mr and Mrs I took out extra cover to protect  their personal possessions  outside their home. 
Thats clearly the section that applies  to the circumstances  of their loss. If it was Admirals 
intention to apply  a limit to mobile phones lost or damaged outside  the home, in my view 
thats not sufficiently  clear. The schedule doesnt explain that the maximum limits listed  
under the contents section also apply to the contents away from home section.
Ref: DRN61018722Furthermore, under the contents away from home section in the policy booklet, the terms set 
out that the limit is the personal possessions limit, unless the loss involves money and then 
the money limit listed in the contents section of the schedule  applies. Notably, the mobile 
phone limit isnt mentioned. In my opinion, this further supports the mobile  phone  limit 
doesnt apply  to this section of the policy; and apart from money, a claim for personal 
possessions away from the home  is covered up to £2,000.
Theres also a section  in the policy booklet headed how we settle your claim  and whilst it 
sets out there are maximum limits that apply to some items under the contents section, it 
doesnt mention  that these limits apply  to the contents away  from home  section.
So for all of these  reasons, I conclude that Admirals  decision to apply a £150  limit to the 
claim to be unfair and unreasonable.
Im satisfied that Admiral  should settle the claim in full, less the policy excess. Interest should 
also be added to the claim settlement at a rate of 8% simple, calculated from the date of the 
claim until the date of settlement.
Im also of the opinion  that Mr and Mrs I should be compensated  £150  for the trouble and 
upset they have been caused by the decision taken on their claim.
When the claim was first made Admiral identified the replacement cost of the phone, from 
the manufacturers website, to be £749. I consider it fair to use this value when calculating  
the settlement.  However, if Mr and Mrs I believe the replacement cost to be higher, they 
should let me know when  they respond to my provisional decision.
Both parties  have since confirmed that they accept my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for 
the same  reasons. Neither party has provided any further comments  or information for me to 
consider. 
Ref: DRN61018723my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint. 
My final decision is Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited should:
settle Mr and Mrs Is claim for £749,  less the policy excess; 
add interest at a rate of 8% simple to the cash settlement, calculated from the date of 
the claim until the date of settlement;  and
pay Mr and Mrs I £150 for the trouble and upset  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.  
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6101872