K820x#14complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Metro Bank Plc (Metro) ended its banking relationship with her by 
closing her Metro accounts and registering  a Credit Industry Fraud  Avoidance  System  
(CIFAS) marker against her. 
Miss F has told us the impact of this has been  significant for her in terms of being able to get 
a new bank account. Miss F wants Metro to remove the marker.  
background
On 11 May 2018 £4,700 was paid into Miss Fs current account at 1.28pm.  Within hours of 
the monies arriving in Miss Fs account two counter withdrawals  for £2,300  and £1,800 were 
made at separate Metro branches, at 2.15pm  and 2.50pm respectively; £600 was 
transferred to Miss Fs current account with Metro ending -405, from which  £300 was 
transferred to an individual third party  with the remainder removed as a cash  withdrawal of 
£300 soon after. 
On 18 May 2018 Metro  received notification  from another bank that the £4,700 deposited  in 
Miss Fs current  account were  fraudulent  funds.  
Miss F has confirmed that from 18 May 2018  she was unable to access her banking  either  
through use of her card or online.  And on calling Metro to find out what was wrong was told 
she would  hear from them  in due course.  
On 22 May 2018 Metro  issued Miss F with a Notice to Closure Letter.  This letter gave 
Miss F seven days notice from the date of the letter that, on 29 May 2018, Miss Fs 
accounts with Metro would be closed and their contract with Miss F would come to an end, 
as per their terms. 
Metro also wrote to Miss F on 23 May 2018  in response to the complaint she raised. This 
letter explained to Miss F that Metros relationship with Miss F had been terminated due to 
notification from another  bank that fraudulent funds of £4,700 were paid into Miss Fs 
account. 
Our adjudicator asked  Miss F to provide us with more detail around the transaction  in 
question. And Miss F told us the money  was from family abroad to help with the imminent 
arrival of her baby   as she was seven months pregnant at the time. Miss F said a family  
dispute had resulted in the relation who sent the money reporting the funds as fraudulent. 
During the investigation the adjudicator received evidence which contradicted  Miss Fs 
version of events and so overall, they said Metro had acted fairly  in the circumstances by 
closing Miss Fs account and registering the CIFAS marker. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the adjudicator.  
Ref: DRN60525942I understand from Miss Fs submissions shes said this has been  a difficult time for her, and 
Im very sorry to read of all that shes been through, but after reviewing everything I think 
Metro has acted fairly in the circumstances. 
Metro provided us with a copy of the letter they sent to Miss F on 22 May 2018 explaining 
they would  be closing Miss Fs various  accounts  in seven days. The letter said that after a 
review and careful consideration, Metro felt unable to continue  as Miss Fs bankers and gave 
Miss F seven days to make  alternative banking arrangements as well as giving her the 
opportunity to collect any items still held in any safety deposit box. 
I understand that receiving notice of this kind wouldve had a real impact  on Miss F - as she 
has described to us. But Im afraid Metro has acted within the terms and conditions  of the 
accounts. These entitled them to close the accounts  and they were  allowed to do this 
immediately or they could  do so by giving some  notice  which in this case they did to give 
Miss F a chance to make  other arrangements. 
There was also no requirement for Metro  to let Miss F know why they were closing her 
accounts, but Metro  also sent us a copy of their letter to Miss F dated 23 May 2018 which 
explained Miss Fs accounts  had come to their attention after being notified by another bank 
that fraudulent  funds  were paid into Miss Fs account. This letter also suggested Miss F 
speak to the remitter of the funds  to find out why the claim was made and invited Miss F to 
provide an explanation and any evidence about the transaction in question   which it said 
would potentially help with any wider police investigation. Ive not been  made  aware that 
Miss F provided  any further information  to Metro. 
So I cant say Metro  has done anything wrong  by taking the decision to close  Miss Fs 
accounts. 
Miss F has told us about the difficulties shes had in arranging new banking facilities  due to 
the CIFAS marker Metro placed  against her. Metro placed the marker because  Miss F had 
received fraudulent funds into her account  and retained a wrongful credit. So Ive looked at 
whether it was fair for Metro to apply the marker  based on the evidence it had. And what  the 
rules say about applying such markers. 
The marker thats been applied is one that records that theres been a misuse  of facility, e.g. 
use of the account  for receiving fraudulent funds. In order for Metro  to be able to record this, 
it isnt necessary for the bank  to establish, say, beyond  reasonable doubt, that Miss F was 
wittingly involved in fraudulent funds being  received.  Nor have I undertaken a fraud 
investigation to establish any such evidence.
Metro is, though  in order  to file the marker  expected to be able to demonstrate that there 
are reasonable grounds for it to believe that a fraud  or financial crime has been committed  or 
attempted; and it has to demonstrate that with evidence that must be clear, relevant and 
rigorous such that it could confidently report the conduct of Miss F to the police.
The relevant  judgement  for me to make therefore  is one about  what  Metro  was entitled to 
think about what had most likely gone on, such that it would be able to escalate  any 
concerns, based  on the evidence available to it; rather  than specifically what I conclude was 
most likely to have been Miss Fs role in the receipt  of the fraudulent  funds.  
After considering Miss Fs version  of events and the evidence  Metro has provided,  together  
with the investigation carried out by our adjudicator, while I think Metro  could have carried  
Ref: DRN60525943out more investigation at the time of applying the marker, taking everything into account I do 
think it was reasonable  for them to apply it. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken  into 
account:  
Metro has provided  their own submissions that the payment into Miss Fs account  on 
11 May 2018 was fraudulent. 
Miss Fs version  of what happened  has been  that she always expected these funds  
which were coming  from her family, but the evidence available  to me, especially that 
provided by Metro, is at odds with Miss Fs description of where the funds came from.   
Miss F had an opportunity to let Metro  know shed received fraudulent funds. But she 
has said she expected  these funds and does  not dispute  that she benefited from the 
funds in question. Miss F told us how she considers  the claim of the funds she 
received being  fraudulently sent came about.  But while  she says that the funds were 
genuinely sent to her and what she used the funds for, shes only been able to 
provide receipts  for a very small proportion of the sum in question that were dated 
some time after the funds  were  taken from her accounts. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont consider that Miss F has sufficiently  persuaded me 
that the fraudulent funds were received into her account on the basis  in which  she describes. 
I therefore find that Metro  have met the burden of proof required by CIFAS  to add the marker  
against Miss Fs name.  I think its fair that Metro reported Miss F to CIFAS and Im not going 
to ask Metro to remove the marker. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I do not uphold  Miss Fs complaint.  In the circumstances  I think  
Metro has fairly applied their terms when  deciding to close  Miss Fs account and register  the 
CIFAS marker.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6052594