K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains Oakbrook Finance Limited  trading as Likely Loans approved  loans which 
were unaffordable to her. Miss D says she was in financial difficulties at the time the loans 
were approved. She says she had to take numerous loans from different providers, and that 
Likely Loans shouldve  completed more checks before  lending.
background
Likely Loans approved Miss D for a loan in May 2017. The total credit amount of the loan 
was £1,400 to be repaid with 12 monthly  payments of £162.35. In November 2017, Miss D 
applied and was approved for a top-up loan. This loan was for a total credit of £1,650 to be 
repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £288.21. This top up loan included  the settlement of her 
first loan.
Miss D settled her second loan early in December 2017. Miss D had met all her monthly 
repayments. 
Miss D complains at the time she applied for the first loan and subsequent  top up loan, she 
was in financial difficulties  and Likely Loans  shouldve completed further checks. She says 
had Likely  Loans  done this, they wouldve seen she had taken out numerous loans 
previously, including payday loans,  and that she was in a cycle of debt. Miss D says she has 
lost out financially as a result  of Likely Loans  decision  to lend.
Likely Loans responded to Miss Ds complaint saying it had conducted reasonable and 
proportionate checks at each decision lending stage. It says it conducted  credit  file checks, 
as well as checking  Miss Ds income.  Based  on this information, and other lending  data, it 
says it was reasonable to lend to Miss D. 
Our adjudicator looked into Miss Ds complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She felt 
the checks which Likely Loans had conducted were reasonable  and proportionate.  Miss D 
disagreed with our adjudicator and so the matter has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator did, for broadly the same  reasons. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable  lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ds complaint.
Likely Loans needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to 
understand if any lending was affordable to Miss D. The relevant rules dont set out which 
specific criteria  needed to be completed  for reasonable  and proportionate checks; but 
relevant checks should include things such as a customers  income  (over  the full term of the 
loan), and their outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and 
proportionate to the amount of credit being  provided  including the total amount  of credit,  
amount of repayments  and total length  of the term. 
Ref: DRN69761832Our general  approach to proportionate checks sets out that in early  stages  of a lending  
relationship we accept that a lenders checks may be less thorough  in terms of the 
information it gathers  and relies on. This is likely to change if the lending  relationship  goes 
on for a longer  period,  as there  is a greater risk of the lending  becoming unsustainable for a 
customer.
Having carefully considered all of the information Ive been provided  with, including what  Ive 
set out above,  Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.  I say this because  Im satisfied the 
checks Likely Loans conducted in this instance were, on balance, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
Miss D took out her first loan for £1,400 in May 2018, with monthly payments amounting to 
£162.35. Likely Loans says it agreed to this loan after Miss D had provided it with her annual 
/ monthly income, and it had carried out a number  of checks including a credit  check.  It says 
based on the information Miss D had provided  shed be able to make  the monthly payments. 
As this was the first loan which Miss D had applied for, considering the amount and term of 
it, I wouldve expected  Likely  Loans  to have  completed basic checks  before lending. This 
would include things  such as checking the customers income and credit files. Ive reviewed 
the checks which Likely Loans completed and from this information and can see that Miss D 
provided her annual income  as approximately £19,500. It looks  like at the time of taking  out 
this loan Miss D had some open  loan accounts,  and she mayve used the proceeds of this 
loan to settle these debts.  
The credit check completed  by Likely Loans at the time shows she had other outgoings  such  
as a mortgage, but that Miss D was able to meet these. The credit file doesnt show  that 
Miss D was in debt or behind in her payments; and that her current  account  was well 
managed. 
So based  on this information Im satisfied  the checks which  Likely Loans conducted at this 
time were reasonable and proportionate,  and therefore it was fair for it to lend to her.
Miss D then applied  and was approved for a top up loan in November 2017. Whilst         
Likely Loans describe this a top up to the first loan,  it is a separate lending  decision, which 
requires it to conduct further  relevant  and proportionate checks. This loan was for £1,650  to 
be repaid 12 monthly instalments of £288.21 (this amount included  the settlement  of the first 
loan). 
Again, Likely  Loans has provided  us with the information it relied on when  making this 
lending decision.  This included Miss D providing  it with details of her income (which had 
risen). Likely  Loans also conducted a further  credit check. It also says that Miss D was also 
able to meet  her previous  loan commitments, and this demonstrated she was a reliable 
customer. 
I dont accept that Miss Ds ability to meet  the monthly repayments of the first loans are an 
indicator that she would be able to meet further  higher  amounts. With that being said 
however, Im satisfied,  on balance, in this instance  these  checks were reasonable and 
proportionate. I say this because, whilst the monthly repayment amount had increased,  Id 
still only expect Likely Loans to have done  basic checks  such  as verify Miss Ds income  and 
check her credit file. This is what Likely  Loans did. Miss D declared  income  and the 
subsequent credit checks demonstrated that she had enough income  to meet  these 
Ref: DRN69761833increased repayments. So considering this was still early in her lending  relationship  with 
Likely Loans, Im satisfied on balance, the checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
Whilst I accept  Miss D will be disappointed by my decision, I hope she understands  the 
reasons behind my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6976183