K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd is holding  him responsible  for a debt 
which he originally said wasnt his.
background
In December 2016 Lantern bought a debt from another lender which had been taken out in 
2013. It wrote to Mr M about repaying the debt, but received no response. So it applied for a 
County Court judgment (CCJ) in May 2018, which was granted in October  2018.
Mr M told Lantern it wasnt him who took out the loan. And, as he did so before the CCJ was 
obtained, he doesnt think he should be responsible for repaying the debt and shouldnt have 
a CCJ against  him, which is also recorded on his credit file. 
Lantern looked into Mr Ms concerns  and was satisfied, after considering the evidence 
provided by the original  lender, that it was him who borrowed the money. Mr M disagreed 
and asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator explained that this service  couldnt overturn the CCJ. And she felt Lantern 
gave Mr M sufficient notice of the debts existence  as well as its intention  to obtain the 
judgment. Mr M disagreed and said that as hed disputed liability  for the debt Lantern  should 
have put the matter on hold rather than proceeding with the CCJ.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  it.
Im satisfied, from Lanterns records, that it notified  Mr M about the debt soon after 
purchasing it in December 2016. Yet theres  nothing which  suggests  he replied to any of its 
communications until May 2018  when he rang to say the debt wasnt  his. That contact 
seems to have been prompted by Lanterns  solicitors letter  sent a couple of days before 
he got in touch  which  warned that court  proceedings had been started, and invited Mr M to 
get in touch within the next 14 days.
Court proceedings were  held for a time after Mr M called. Lantern (and its solicitor) 
undertook some further investigation and corresponded with Mr M. In early September  2018  
Lantern asked  Mr M to complete  some forms so it could further investigate his claim that the 
loan was taken  out in his name fraudulently. But Lantern didnt receive the completed  forms 
so told its solicitor to carry on with the court  proceeding and judgment was entered on 
24 October 2018. I dont  think that was unreasonable  in the circumstances.
I understand Mr M got in touch with Lantern  again  on 30 October, likely  after Lanterns 
solicitor wrote to him confirming judgment  had been  entered. He said then that hed returned  
the fraud forms and further arrangements were then made to hold recovery action while 
Lantern undertook further investigation into Mr Ms allegations. But, by that time, the CCJ 
had already been obtained.
Im satisfied Lantern gave Mr M given ample chance  to dispute liability  for the debt before 
the judgment was entered. I also note he could have put forward  his defence direct with the 
courts, but Lantern says he didnt do so. I would also confirm that Mr M has, in the past few 
Ref: DRN69724892days, shared information with this service  which suggests he now accepts that he did 
actually apply for this loan.
Finally, as the investigator explained,  I cannot  overturn  a courts decision.  And, in the 
circumstances, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Lantern to remove  the CCJ from Mr Ms credit  
file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6972489