K822xcomplaint
Ms P is unhappy that at how Kindertons Ltd, trading as Land Rover  Insurance,  dealt with the 
repairs to her car following a road traffic accident.
background 
Ms P was involved in a road traffic accident  in October 2018.  Kindertons were instructed to 
deal with the repairs to her car and to provide  her with a hire car, while her car was in for 
repair. Kindertons were  instructed on the basis that Ms P was not at fault for the accident. 
But liability  for the accident  was disputed by the other driver involved and, after reviewing 
CCTV footage  of the accident, Ms Ps insurance company accepted liability,  holding  Ms P at 
fault for causing  the accident. The liability  dispute  delayed the repairs to Ms Ps car and 
meant that the hire car Kindertons provided  needed to be replaced with a courtesy car 
provided by the repairers. 
Ms P has raised a number of complaints about the service she says Kindertons  failed  to 
provide. Our investigator found  Kindertons couldve done better. He felt theyd terminated a 
call without giving Ms P notice they were going to do this, and they incorrectly told her she 
needed to contact her insurance company. But he said Kindertons  had acted  reasonably by 
responding to call back requests in a reasonable time; in giving her factual  information  about 
the removal of the authority for Ms P to use the hire car; and in not providing Ms P with the 
CCTV footage  when this hadnt been  asked for.
The investigator didnt  think Kindertons delayed the repairs of Ms Ps car, and felt this was 
caused by the liability  dispute - meaning Kindertons were waiting for authorisation to go 
ahead. And when they received this, the repairs were completed in a reasonable timeframe.
Kindertons had already accepted they couldve done better, and in their final complaint 
response letter they apologised to Ms P for this. But the investigator thought  that Ms P had 
suffered some trouble and upset  as a result of Kindertons putting the phone down on her 
without notice, and in her having to contact her insurance company  unnecessarily.  So he 
recommended that Kindertons  pay Ms P £50 to reflect this.
Ms P didnt agree with the investigator  and has asked  for an ombudsman  to review her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. I can understand 
this is likely to come as a disappointment to Ms P, but I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.  Ive focused my comments on what  I think is 
relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN60278932As an accident management  company,  Kindertons  usually only deal with non-fault accident  
claims  those where the other side accept full liability  for causing the accident. So, they 
initially accepted  Ms Ps claim on a temporary  basis. This meant they would only be able to 
provide a hire car and deal with the repairs to Ms Ps car if liability was accepted  by the other  
side. If liability was disputed (as it was in this case) this would mean  a delay in the repairs  
being authorised and, possibly, the need  to recover the hire car given to Ms P.
Its clear from Kindertons  case notes that Ms P felt the other driver was at fault for the 
accident, and she felt Kindertons should  be fighting  this on her behalf. But its not Kindertons  
role to dispute liability, or fight this for her  this is the role of her insurance company. 
Kindertons role was to deal with the repairs to Ms Ps car, and provide  her with a hire car 
while the repairs were  being done.  Which they did.
Authorisation to repair the car was received by Kindertons on 1 November 2018, despite the 
liability still being disputed. These repairs were completed by 9 November, and the car 
returned to Ms P. So I dont agree that Kindertons  delayed  in repairing Ms Ps car.
Ive seen the insurance company, in an email of 5 November, felt that, after reviewing the 
CCTV evidence, Ms P was at fault for the accident. Ive not seen anything to show me that 
Ms P asked to see the CCTV footage, so I cant say Kindertons acted unreasonably by not 
sending this to her. But I agree with the investigator  that they should now do this.
Because of this liability decision, the hire car Ms P had been provided  with needed to be 
replaced with a courtesy car. Kindertons tried to get in contact with Ms P about  this, but she 
didnt answer the calls or return the voicemail  messages thatd been left. So Kindertons 
emailed Ms P on 7 November and told her that, if she didnt  contact them, theyd withdraw 
permission for her to use the hire car and cancel the insurance.
In the circumstances, I think Kindertons acted reasonably.  Asking Ms P in writing,  because 
they couldnt contact her by phone, to call them  and telling her they would stop her using the 
hire car if she didnt was factual information.  While I appreciate Ms P wouldnt want to hear 
this, and until she spoke  to Kindertons she wouldnt know the full context of why they were  
telling her this, but it doesnt make it threatening.
Because Ms Ps insurance  company  held her liable for the accident, she may have ended up 
liable for the hire car costs  these wouldnt be paid by the other  drivers insurance  as would 
be the case in a non-fault accident. So Kindertons  were  trying to limit Ms Ps exposure to 
these potential costs  by replacing  the hire car with a courtesy car. As it happened,  
Kindertons made the decision to write off the hire car costs, and not charge these to Ms P.
Ms P is also unhappy that her car was driven  to the repairers, even though shed been told it 
wasnt roadworthy. A case note on 10 October says client thinks her vehicle is driveable 
and repairers believe  her vehicle is driveable. So, regardless of what  the engineer said Im 
satisfied that Ms P and the repairers agreed her car was ok to drive. So I dont think  they did 
anything wrong  by driving the car to be repaired.  And Ive not seen anything to show me 
than Ms Ps car suffered  any additional  damage  because it had been driven.
Ref: DRN60278933Im in agreement with both the investigator and Kindertons that they couldve done better 
when speaking to Ms P. And that Kindertons gave Ms P incorrect  information when they said 
she needed to contact her insurance company. Ms P was already unhappy  about  the 
accident and the disputed  liability, and this wouldve added  to that. So I agree with the 
investigator that, in addition to the written  apology theyve already  provided, Kindertons 
should pay Ms P £50 to reflect this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Ms Ps complaint.  Kindertons  Ltd must  pay Ms P 
£50 to reflect the additional  stress and upset caused  by the way they dealt with her on the 
phone, and for giving  her incorrect information  about contacting her insurance company.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6027893