K820x#14complaint
Mr As says XTB Limited (XTB) is responsible for losses arising from a problem in its 
trading platform which  prevented him from closing specific  positions  between 1 and 2 
January 2019  when  he wanted to.
background
A summary  of events is as follows:
On 3 January  Mr A raised  the matter with XTB, highlighting four affected  trades  he 
had sought to close.
On 8 January  XTB offered redress for the matter by correcting the prices for the 
relevant trades and offering  a credit of around £3,600 to the account. Mr A accepted  
this redress and on 9 January  the corrections were applied  to his account.
Later in January Mr A returned to XTB to complain that he had lost more  from the 
matter  up to around £8,000  than initially  noted.  XTB concluded  there was no 
basis to this claim, that to accept it would be to unfairly pay Mr A more  compensation 
than his alleged  losses and that he had already  agreed, accepted  and received 
settlement for the matter.
The complaint was referred  to this service. One of our investigators concluded that it should 
not be upheld,  for broadly the same reasons given by XTB. Mr A disagreed. He said his 
losses from the positions were more  (around  £6,000) and that in addition he lost around 
£2,000 in swap/interest. He also said he should  be compensated for lost reinvestment 
opportunity and profit he would have made from such reinvestment trades.
The investigator went through  relevant  account activity evidence  and concluded the 
following:
 
XTBs  corrections had catered for Mr As losses. 
There was evidence  that swap/interest in his account was unaffected by the event. 
Mr As claim about lost opportunity for profit was speculative,  with no basis to 
concluded what he would  have  done in terms of reinvestment on the day. 
Mr A then asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons as those given  
by XTB (and the investigator).
Mr As complaint is mainly  about  insufficiency of redress  that has been applied  and about  his 
alleged losses. As such, I do not address the details of the platform  problem. 
The basis  upon  which XTB applied redress to Mr As account is not clear. In this respect, I 
mean it is not clear  whether XTB did this with or without admission of liability for Mr As loss. 
In any case, evidence presented to us says it applied the redress  to his account. 
Ref: DRN66716792Mr A cannot  fairly be compensated  for more than what he lost, so the only issue to 
determine is whether  (or not) the redress covered the tangible and identifiable loss he 
incurred from the complaint  event.
There is account activity  evidence to support XTBs position that the corrections it applied to 
Mr As account rectified the detriment caused  to the four positions  featured  in the complaint. 
In contrast, I have  not seen evidence  of the additional sum (roughly £2,000)  Mr A says he 
lost in the positions. Evidence also supports the conclusion that the swap/interest  earned in 
the account and in relation to the positions  remained  unaffected by the event and by the 
corrections. 
As the investigator  noted  and as Mr A appears to have conceded during a telephone 
conversation with the investigator  the claim for lost trading opportunity  and profit is 
inherently speculative  and what has been presented is mainly  based on hindsight. There is 
no evidence of precisely (or probably) what his trading intentions were  prior to the event 
and/or that such intentions would have generated profit. I do not consider that a basis for 
additional compensation has been  established  in this respect.
Mr As pursuit is for additional compensation and the balance  of available evidence  supports 
the conclusion  that he is not entitled  to such compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6671679