K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained PCF Bank Limited provided a conditional sale agreement for a 
motorhome without taking  ownership or being  able to supply this to him.
background
Mr T was negotiating a private purchase  of a motorhome in February 2019. He needed to 
take out finance. He contacted brokers  who arranged finance with PCF Bank. On 
19 February PCF Bank confirmed Mr Ts application for finance was approved.
Mr T was being granted a conditional  sale agreement  for a specific  motorhome. This 
involved finance of £11,520. He would  be repaying  £199.20 every  month  for over six years.
Mr T arranged delivery of the motorhome on 27 February.  This didnt take place and Mr T 
quickly realised hed been a victim  of a scam. He reported this to Action Fraud and asked 
PCF Bank to cancel the credit agreement. They wouldnt agree to this as they said nothing 
that had happened was their fault.
Mr T brought  his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included a document PCF Bank relied  upon  
called the private  sale declaration. Our investigator didnt believe PCF Bank had carried out 
any due diligence  on the ownership  of the vehicle. It was also clear  PCF Bank  under the 
terms of the agreement were not the owners as stated. She felt it was fair and reasonable 
Mr Ts agreement was cancelled. She also asked  PCF Bank  to repay  all the monthly 
repayments Mr T had already made  towards this agreement, along with 8% simple interest.
PCF Bank disagreed  with this outcome. Mr Ts complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusion as our investigator and for roughly the 
similar reasons.  Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute here that a fraud  has taken  place. The motorhome was never supplied to 
Mr T. But that doesnt mean liability for this loss should rest on Mr T.
I say this because  Mr T took out a conditional sale agreement with PCF Bank on 21 
February 2019. Under the terms of this agreement,  ownership of the vehicle would rest with 
PCF Bank until Mr T had completed all repayments.
Mr T had been upfront  this was to finance a private vehicle purchase.  Hed signed a private  
sale declaration  provided  to him by PCF Bank. This confirmed:
You have strongly advised  me to have the vehicle inspected by the AA, RAC  or another 
suitably qualified person. I confirm that I have taken  the appropriate steps to ensure that the 
vehicle is in a satisfactory  and suitable  condition for my use
Ref: DRN62053192PCF Bank relies on this document to suggest Mr T had confirmed hed viewed the vehicle. 
But I dont believe this is what  this says at all. To comply with this, Mr T carried  out a number 
of checks. These were  confirmed in his correspondence with the broker.  At no stage was 
Mr T told that any liability for non-delivery of the goods lay with him. Or that a condition of the 
finance was that hed seen the physical goods in person.
The conditional sale agreement  doesnt  place any liability on Mr T. Theres nothing in the 
agreement that specifies any change of terms when  a private  sale is involved.
Firstly it confirms that Mr T can seek redress from PCF Bank.
This agreement finances the supply of the Goods. If the Goods are not supplied, are 
incomplete, or do not conform to your agreement with the supplier and you are unable to 
obtain redress from the supplier, then you have the right to seek redress  from us.
I believe its clear that the contract hasnt been  fulfilled  by the supplier to provide the vehicle. 
And Ive seen evidence that Mr T tried to follow up with the supplier. 
Im also aware that PCF Bank state we would normally do due diligence  to make sure an 
asset was in possession of a seller . Ive seen nothing to show what  steps PCF Bank  took to 
confirm the existence of the asset involved  in this complaint.
And finally the terms and conditions  state clearly that ownership of the asset rests with PCF 
Bank. Nobody disputes that PCF Bank doesnt own the motorhome. But this seems to me to 
be the whole  basis of the conditional sale agreement  so this I think  suggests a clear  breach 
of contract  on their part.
Overall I believe its fair and reasonable PCF Bank take steps to cancel the credit agreement 
and refund the money Mr T has paid to them. As is standard in such  cases,  PCF Bank will 
need to add 8% simple  interest to the monthly  payments Mr T has made.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  PCF Bank Limited to:
Cancel the conditional sale agreement in Mr Ts name:
Remove any data about  this agreement from Mr Ts credit record;
Refund all payments Mr T has made under this agreement to PCF Bank; and
Add 8% simple interest to these amounts from the date Mr T paid them until the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6205319