K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about the county court judgment that was recorded  on her credit  file with 
Equifax Limited.  Shes being helped  with her complaint by her father.
background
Mrs H says that she was the victim  of a financial fraud which  resulted in a county court  
judgment being entered against her. The judgment  was set aside and Equifax was provided 
with evidence of that  but it continued to report the judgment on Mrs Hs credit file. She 
complained to Equifax. It said that the information  was stored  as supplied by the lender and 
that it was unable to amend that information without written authorisation from the lender. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that Equifax 
couldve been more  proactive in dealing with the issues raised by Mrs H. So she 
recommended that it should pay her £250  for the trouble and upset  caused.
Equifax has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says that Mrs H 
didnt specifically say the words court order when she phoned it in September 2018. It says 
that it was told in September 2018  that there were some delays with the lenders updates  but 
it was given authorisation to delete the account in October 2018 and since that was done the 
account has not returned to Mrs Hs credit  file. It also says that it believes it did all it could to 
assist Mrs H through the duration of her complaint and it shouldnt have to pay her any 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit reference agencies store information that is provided to them by lenders and other 
account providers.  So if a customer complains about  information that's recorded on their 
credit file, they will normally need to complain to the lender  that provided the information, not 
the agency that recorded it.
But in this case the lender  had obtained  a county court judgment on the basis of incorrect  
information and the judgment was then set aside. Equifax recorded the judgment on Mrs Hs 
credit file and then removed it  but the judgment  reappeared in the information provided by 
the lender so was then added to her credit file.
I consider that Mrs H did enough  to make Equifax aware of her situation and that it would be 
fair and reasonable to expect it to have done more  to help her in these circumstances. The 
information has now been corrected and Equifax says that it hasnt  appeared on her credit  
file since October 2018. 
Mrs H and her father have described  the distress  and inconvenience that Mrs H has been 
caused by the information  that was recorded on her credit file. I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for Equifax to pay her £250 to compensate her for that 
distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
Ref: DRN65284912For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I order 
Equifax Limited  to pay her £250  to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6528491