K822xcomplaint
Mr G is complaining that Towergate Underwriting  Group Limited (Towergate) didnt  tell him 
commercial motor insurance policy was going to lapse. He says this resulted  in him being 
prosecuted for driving without insurance.  
background 
Mr G took out a commercial motor  insurance  policy through Towergate   a broker.  In 
February 2018 he was stopped by the police for driving without insurance.  His van was 
impounded and he says he lost a days earnings. He called Towergate who advised him to 
contact his insurer. The insurer said it had stopped  offering renewals so his policy  lapsed.
Mr G arranged separate insurance  to release his van. And he had to pay £150  to release it 
from the police compound.
Mr G complained to Towergate that it hadnt informed him that his policy was going to lapse.  
He subsequently accepted a charge of driving  without  insurance and received six points on 
his licence plus a £300 fine.
Mr G estimates  that hes lost around £1,300  as a result of this with the costs incurred, 
increased insurance premiums and lost earnings.  So he asked this service to step in.
Towergate accepted that Mr G may not have received a renewal invite.  So it accepted 
responsibility for whats happened. However it also thought Mr G had to also accept some 
responsibility for whats happened  as he should  have known when his insurance  policy  was 
due for renewal. So it said it was willing to cover half of Mr Gs costs  plus an amount for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him and to cover  the increased 
premiums.
Our investigator thought it was fair that Towergate  should only have to cover 50% of the 
costs Mr G incurred.  And he thought it should pay £700 in compensation. Mr G accepted  
this. But there was a confusion  between  the investigator and Towergate as it thought  that the 
investigator was recommending that it pay £700  to cover everything. It thought  this was high, 
but it was willing to offer this and paid this to Mr G.
Mr G later complained that he only received £700.  Towergate says it agreed  to £700 and 
doesnt think it should have to pay more  than that. And it thinks its unfair that further 
investigation will happen  off the back of this. The investigator still thought £925 was fair. So 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why.
Mr G is complaining that he wasnt told his policy was going to lapse. It appears  that the 
insurer made a decision  to stop offering  renewals. So, as Mr Gs broker, Towergate had a 
responsibility to explain  this to Mr G and source  a replacement insurance  policy. Its 
accepted that it didnt  do this. So the policy lapsed. Towergate should  also, at this point, 
Ref: DRN63259762have contacted Mr G to explain that his policy had lapsed and he was no longer insured. It 
appears that it didnt  do this either.
Towergate accepts  that it needs to compensate Mr G for what happened.  It initially offered 
£525 in compensation, but agreed  to increase this to £700 following the investigators 
involvement. Mr G has accepted the investigators recommendation of £925.  So the issue  for 
me to decide  is whether £925 is fair compensation. And I think  this at the lower end of the 
scale of award that I would have awarded.
I note Towergates  comments  that Mr G has to accept some responsibility for whats 
happened as he should have known  when his policy was due for renewal.  But the 
fundamental fault for this has to fall with Towergate. Industry regulations  and standard  
industry practice required Towergate  to give Mr G adequate notice his policy  wasnt going to 
renew to prevent the precise  situation Mr G has found himself  in. Had it done  this, Mr G 
wouldnt have incurred  any of the costs that hes incurred. So I think  Towergate should  have  
to refund the impound costs and fee for driving  without insurance in full - £450. 
Mr G has shown that his insurance  premium  has increased by around £400, although I 
appreciate some of this is due to him having  made a claim.  Hell have to disclose this 
offence for at least three years. And I think Towergate should compensate him for this. 
Ordinarily, Id say that Towergate  should  refund around 50% of the increased premiums. But 
this is hard to calculate given Mr G had also made  a claim. So I think the fairest  way to deal 
with this would be for Towergate to pay a sum of compensation to reflect  this cost and the 
distress and inconvenience hes incurred in being  prosecuted for driving without insurance. I 
dont think a further £475 is unreasonable taking  all this into account.
Mr G has said that he lost around  £700  in earnings  as a result of this. But he hasnt given me 
enough to show  that he has actually lost this. And he had a duty to mitigate  his losses.  So I 
dont think Towergate  has to cover this.
I think Towergate should also provide Mr G with a letter of indemnity also acknowledging its 
responsibility for Mr G not being insured. Mr G can then use this letter to look to have the 
driving offence removed  from his licence. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I require Towergate 
Underwriting Group Limited to pay Mr G a further £225 in compensation (£925 in total). 
It should also provide  Mr G with a letter  of indemnity and also acknowledging its 
responsibility for Mr G not being insured. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6325976