K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about Tradex Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a number of claims  under  his commercial motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr R was involved in a couple of accidents  in early 2019 and made  claims under his motor 
trade insurance policy. Tradex looked into the claims  but felt that the car had a significant  
amount of pre-existing damage  which meant  the value  of the car was less than the excess 
due on the policy.  
Tradex highlighted that Mr Rs car had been involved in a number of incidents previously.  
And as the damage caused  hadnt  been repaired this impacted significantly on the value of 
his car and it outlined  that it wasnt responsible for the previous accident damage. As Mr R 
wasnt happy about this, he complained to Tradex and then this service.
Our investigator looked in to things for him but didnt uphold  his complaint. He was of the 
view that Tradex hadnt acted unreasonably.  This was because  he thought Tradex  had 
established there was pre-existing damage to Mr Rs car that affected the valuation to the 
extent that his car was worth less than the £500 excess  due under the policy.
As Mr R didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr R was involved in two incidents in early 2019 which he submitted claims for. Tradex 
looked at the first incident and decided there  was pre-existing damage to the car that 
significantly affected the cars value. The car was old and had been involved in a number  of 
accidents to various  parts  of the car that hadnt been  repaired.  This meant that it was difficult 
to establish what  damage was pre-existing  and what related to the incident.  But it concluded 
the level of pre-existing  damage was such that its overall value was less than the £500  
policy excess.
I can understand why Mr R feels this was unfair.  He was involved in an accident and wanted  
the damage repaired. However, he had been  involved in an accident in 2018 that deemed 
his car uneconomical to repair. But he chose not to get the car repaired. While  I can 
understand this, as Mr R was happy to drive  around in a car that had some  damage, this 
meant the cars  value was affected when he had a further accident in January 2019.  And this 
meant that the car was worth even less when  he had another accident in February  2019.
So, even though Tradex didnt deal with the second claim  in February 2019 very well, I cant  
conclude it has acted  unreasonably. I say this as Ive seen the various engineer  reports and 
photographs of Mr Rs car that clearly show there  was pre-existing damage.  And although it 
told Mr R it would pay a small settlement after the February claim. I think  it was clear that the 
cars value  was below the excess at that stage. So Mr R was never going to get paid out. 
Ref: DRN66518052But I accept Tradex may have given Mr R false hope that he would  get a small settlement 
figure for this claim as it told him as much. This was because it appointed a different 
engineer who wasnt aware of the January claim. But I think Tradex acted quickly when it 
realised its error and has apologised to Mr R for its mistake.
I know Mr R doesnt feel this is fair, but it wouldnt be fair to ask Tradex  to pay more than the 
car is worth. Plus, given  the increasing level of damage made to the car in the various 
incidents it wouldnt be fair to ask Tradex  to pay for the pre-existing damage. So, Im 
satisfied that Tradex  have acted reasonably.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6651805