K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to him and his late wife. 
background
In 1988 Mr and Mrs D arranged to take a mortgage and at the same time were  sold monthly 
premium PPI to protect repayments on the mortgage. The PPI covered  Mr D for accident,  
sickness and unemployment. Mr D told us that the PPI had been  sold as part of the 
mortgage and their options hadnt been  explained. He said that they thought they had to 
have PPI to get the mortgage.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint was not upheld. Mr D disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me for review  and a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in 
considering this case.
First I shall deal with the issue  of whether the PPI just covered Mr D - or initially  covered Mrs 
D as well (as Mr D suggested in response  to the adjudicators  view).    Although  we dont  
have any documents  from the time of the sale, we do have some computer records from 
Halifax. Those show that Mr and Mrs D had a joint mortgage, but show  only that the PPI 
covered Mr D. I know that, as Mr D has said, Halifax has referred in correspondence to the 
account being held jointly. But that was because the mortgage was held jointly so, although 
the PPI only covered Mr D, it would  also potentially benefit Mrs D by helping  to pay off a 
mortgage for which she was jointly responsible. So in that sense the PPI was also joint,  even 
if it only covered Mr D. 
Because of lack of detail in even  the computer records, I cant  entirely rule out the possibility 
that initially the PPI covered both Mr and Mrs D and was later changed to Mr D alone. The 
cost would have  been the same whether one or both of them  were  covered. What would 
have happened  if they were both covered was that they would each have had a share of the 
same total cover,  and then if one of them needed to claim  they would have got the same  
share of the total benefit. The records contain a checklist of questions  and answers  relating 
to Mr Ds eligibility for the policy, but not one for Mrs D. A checklist  like that would usually 
only be done when  the policy first started  not if the cover was changed later. So, when 
there is no such checklist for Mrs D, on balance I think it is likely  that only Mr D was ever 
covered. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide  what  is most likely to 
have happened. 
Ref: DRN62120192I know that Mr D says that the PPI wasnt sold as being optional, and that they had been  led 
to believe that the mortgage application would be turned  down if they didnt take the PPI. 
Neither party has been able to supply  any documents from the sale to show how the PPI 
was presented to Mr and Mrs D or any of the forms they completed.  But, as the sale was 30 
years ago, this isnt surprising or unreasonable. Ive thought carefully  about  what  Mr D has 
said. But I couldnt expect  him to have a very clear recollection of what  had been said when 
arranging a mortgage about  30 years  ago. And Im not aware of any general issue at that 
time about whether Halifax made  it clear to mortgage applicants that PPI was optional. 
Without stronger  evidence to show Halifax didnt make it clear the PPI was optional,  and Mr 
and Mrs D didnt choose to take it out, I cant fairly uphold  the complaint on this point.
Both parties  said that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. In that situation  
Halifax needed to check that the PPI was suitable.  From what I know  of Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances, I think  that it was.
-Mr D was eligible for the policy.
-He wasnt affected by any of the restrictions in the policy  which might have made it 
particularly difficult for some people (such  as those with existing medical conditions) 
to make a successful claim. 
-I think the PPI could have been  useful. It looks as though Mr D  was eligible for six 
months of full sick pay from work (followed by six months  of half pay) but hadnt been  
in his job long enough to be entitled to a great deal of redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs D 
had savings which would have lasted no more than six months.  However the PPI 
would have covered the mortgage if Mr D was sick or unemployed for more  than 30 
days. And he could  claim for up to 12 months of sickness or unemployment, and 
receive the benefit on top of any payments from work.
-Mortgage PPI often  was suitable  for people like Mr and Mrs D with some savings  and 
work benefits. A mortgage is a big commitment with substantial  repayments  to find 
each month, and the risk of losing your home if you cant keep  up with them.  So PPI 
can provide useful increased  security
There might  have been areas in which Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs D as much information  
as it should have done. But for the much the same  reasons that I have decided  the policy 
was suitable, I dont think better information would have put them  off taking out the PPI. I 
think they would still have thought it was useful cover at a reasonable cost. That means that 
Halifax doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
Ive thought about everything else Mr D has said. But these points dont change my decision 
on the sale of the PPI. I have arranged for outstanding concerns about how Halifax  handled 
matters to be dealt  with as a separate complaint.  
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and his wifes  estate  because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs D that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN62120193To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Halifax has already  paid half of that to Mr D but sought extra  information before  it would pay 
the second half to him (as executor  and beneficiary  of his wifes estate). Following our 
intervention it agreed that it already had the information  it had requested and said it was now 
arranging to pay the second  half.
what Halifax needs to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. It should  also pay back to Mr D any extra  interest Mr D and his 
wife paid because  of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr D the extra he and his wife paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Mr D 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it hasnt  yet paid him the full amount it 
must pay the remainder  now. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6212019