K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an application for a buy-to-let mortgage  Miss A submitted to The 
Mortgage Lender Limited (TMLL). The application was turned down after TMLL discovered  
that Miss A had a conviction  for financial fraud. Miss A says the conviction  is spent  and that 
TMLL had discriminated against her and acted  unlawfully.
background
I shant go into much detail here,  not least to preserve Miss As privacy  and to avoid the risk 
(however remote) of her being identified when my decision is published. 
Miss A applied for the mortgage through a broker and packager; the application required her 
to say if she had any unspent convictions;  to which she answered no. As part of its 
assessment of the application, TMLL did an adverse media check.  This is something it 
does with all buy-to-let mortgages, in order to establish if there should be any concerns 
about the applicant as a landlord.
The check  revealed  a newspaper article  reporting Miss As conviction for financial fraud 
earlier this decade. TMLL decided not to progress Miss As application any further,  and after 
she complained,  it refunded the valuation and application  fees shed paid.
Our adjudicator didnt  think TMLL had done  anything wrong, so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss A has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Miss As email  of 
2 May 2019,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first point Id make  is that theres  no suggestion  on anyones  part that Miss A made a 
false declaration  or attempted  to conceal  something  she should have disclosed when she 
completed the mortgage application. The application  form is very clear in saying that only 
unspent convictions needed  to be disclosed.
TMLL found out about the conviction  quite by chance, whilst conducting another  unrelated  
search. That search was, of itself, legitimate, and consistent with TMMLs  normal process for 
assessing buy-to-let  applications. Once  the conviction was revealed however, its specific 
nature meant TMLLs  lending policy precluded it from lending to Miss A.
Miss A has spoken very eloquently about her belief  that TMLL is acting in breach of the 
Rehabilitation of Offenders Act. She concedes that TMLLs decision is consistent with its 
own lending  policy, but says that policy must be flawed if allows TMLL to make a decision 
that is unlawful.
I have no regulatory  power, and its not within my remit  to say what a lenders policy  criteria 
should be. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Meanwhile, as Miss A wants  
the lawfulness of TMLLs policy tested, then the only place that can do that is a court  of law.
What that leaves me to decide is whether I should second-guess or otherwise interfere in a 
business commercial decision on whether it is willing to lend to someone or not. Its not 
something we generally do, and Im not persuaded I should do so here. TMLL has refunded  
Ref: DRN61817412Miss As fees, so Im satisfied shes incurred  no immediate  financial loss as a result of the 
abortive application.
Miss A has said the rejection will make it harder for her to obtain a mortgage  elsewhere. 
Thats not something I can comment on. Ive not seen Miss As credit  file, which  means I 
cant assess the impact of a marker noting  a refused application for credit on her overall 
credit profile. But in any event Im satisfied the application didnt  meet TMLLs lending  
criteria, and on that basis I cant say it was wrong to turn it down. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6181741