K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Family Equity Plan Limited  (FEP) sent statements to the wrong 
address on two occasions.
background 
Mr A held an ISA with FEP. When Mr As mother provided a new address for a different 
account, FEP made an error and changed  the correspondence  address on Mr As account. 
As a result, a statement was sent to the wrong  address. FEP were notified of this mistake. 
Unfortunately, the error was not rectified  and another  statement was sent to the wrong 
address.
FEP accept that errors were made and they have apologised. FEP have paid Mr A £250  in 
compensation for the distress  and upset caused  by their mistakes.
Mr A says that he is now at a disadvantage. He has been asked to provide financial 
assistance to others as a result of the third party receiving the statements. 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  Overall,  she thought  FEPs offer was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr A doesnt  agree.  He asks for an additional  £250  in compensation and says he now has to 
fly abroad to discuss these savings. He maintains  that he is now in a worse position.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that errors were made by FEP, resulting in Mr As statement being sent to 
the wrong address twice. I agree that this should  not have happened and FEPs errors  could  
have been avoided.
Im satisfied that the mistakes have caused  Mr A upset and distress.  Ive taken into account 
the comments made by Mr A and his mother. I agree that it is fair and reasonable for FEP to 
compensate Mr A for the upset caused.
The issue  for me to decide is how much compensation is appropriate in the circumstances. 
Its useful if I also explain  our role. We provide an informal dispute resolution  service. We 
have no disciplinary or regulatory  role. We consider each case on its own facts, to decide  
what is fair and reasonable compensation and awards are not made to punish  a business for 
wrongdoing.
Ive thought carefully about the points raised  and Ive seen  that just over £2, 000 was in the 
ISA. Mr A has said he may have to give some financial support to others from his savings,  
but Ive not seen any specific details  about this. I understand  that the discovery  of these 
savings has put Mr A in a difficult position,  but ultimately, its a matter  for Mr A to decide 
what to do with his savings.
Ref: DRN60740502Overall, I consider that FEPs offer of £250  is fair and reasonable to compensate  for the 
distress caused, so I wont be asking them to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I consider £250  is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
errors made. As this has already been  paid to Mr A, I am not going  to ask Family Equity Plan 
Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6074050