K821x#15complaint
Miss Y complains  that Casheuronet UK LLC (trading  as Quick Quid) gave her loans she 
couldnt afford to repay. Quick Quid offered to refund  interest on one loan. Miss Y asks that it 
refunds interest  and charges  on all the loans. 
background
Miss Y had 14 short term loans and a flexi-loan from Quick Quid  between April 2009  and 
June 2015. She says she didnt have enough  disposable income and had to borrow  to repay 
previous loans and set up payment  plans  to meet loan repayments. She says Quick Quid 
didnt check whether the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended  in his view in April 2019 that the complaint should be upheld.  
He said it wasnt wrong for Quick  Quid to offer loans 1 to 3 to Miss Y. But by loan 4 her 
pattern of borrowing suggested  she was reliant on short term loans. This was Miss Ys fourth 
loan in about seven months. She deferred payments and the amount she borrowed 
increased. Miss Y made a number  of payments late. The adjudicator said this pattern of 
borrowing continued throughout the period Miss Y borrowed  from Quick Quid  and this 
suggested the loans were  not sustainable.  
Our adjudicator said Quick Quid should  refund all interest and charges on loans 4 to 15, with 
8% simple  interest,  and remove information about  these loans from Miss Ys credit file.
Quick Quid didnt agree. It offered to refund  interest and charges on loans 5 to 10. Miss Y 
didnt accept Quick  Quids offer and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss Y 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss Ys income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Loans 1 to 3 (April  2009 to August 2009)
Quick Quid doesnt  have a record of asking  about  Miss Ys monthly income until 2015.  Her 
bank statements suggest her monthly income was about £1,500  and this is what she told 
Quick Quid in 2015. I think this is probably  what shed have told Quick  Quid in 2009 if asked. 
Quick Quid does have  a record of carrying out credit checks, although it cant  provide the 
results.
Quick Quid cant provide evidence that it carried out proportionate checks  before offering 
loans 1 to 3. But, given the amount of the loans  and that this was the start of the lending 
Ref: DRN66481202relationship, I dont think proportionate checks would have  given Quick  Quid any reason to 
think the loans  werent  affordable or that further checks were needed.
Loans 4 to 15 (December 2009 to June  2015)
I think when Miss Y asked  for loan 4 Quick Quid should have realised further  lending  was 
unsustainable. By this time, Miss Y had been borrowing from Quick  Quid  for more  than 
seven months without a significant break.  
Miss Y incurred late fees on loan 3. She also incurred late fees on loan 5. Loan 5 was due in 
January 2010  but Miss Y extended it five times   repaying it in June 2010.  While this was 
before there were limits  on the number of times a loan could be deferred,  it could  suggest  
Miss Y was having  difficulty managing  her money. And Miss Y took out a new loan, for a 
larger amount, on the same day she repaid  loan 5. 
This pattern of borrowing  continued with Miss Y incurring late fees, deferring repayments  
and often taking  out a new loan on the same day or shortly after shed repaid a loan. Quick 
Quid ought to have realised Miss Y was having  to borrow to cover the gap in her finances  
left by repaying her previous loan. 
The loans offered by Quick Quid  were  intended for short term use. But Miss Y didnt make 
any real inroads into the amount she owed  Quick Quid. Miss Y borrowed from Quick Quid  for 
more than six years. Loan 15 (taken  out in June 2015)  was for £700  significantly more than 
the £200 shed borrowed in 2009.  
In effect, Miss Y paid large  amounts  of interest to service  a debt to Quick Quid  over an 
extended period.  I dont  think this borrowing was sustainable. I also think  her use of these 
loans was likely to have  had negative implications on her ability  to access mainstream credit 
and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Ys complaint about  loan 4 and the later loans and top ups. Quick 
Quid should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss Y paid on loan 4 and the later loans  and top ups;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all entries about  loan 4 and the later loans and top ups from Miss Ys credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order CashEuroNet  UK LLC to take the steps 
and pay the compensation set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6648120