K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Mrs K says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs K didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. The PPI was sold 
online. Ive seen a screen  shot of the application process and it shows  Mrs K would have 
been given two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI. The application wouldnt have 
proceeded until Mrs K had selected  one of the options. And given the other background 
information Ive seen and the fact that PPI was added to the account,  I think  its more  
likely that Mrs K chose to take PPI.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs K got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because: 
When the policy was sold,  Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mrs K about that. Because  
Barclays didnt tell Mrs K, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K has said - including what she has said about her existing 
repayment provisions  at the time of the sale. But these points dont change  my decision.
As Ive already  mentioned,  Barclays  didnt have to check  the PPI was suitable for Mrs K and 
so didnt have  to take into account her existing  repayment  provisions. It would  have been  for 
Mrs K to decide if she wanted PPI despite her existing provisions and based on the evidence  
Ive seen, it appears she did. And the PPI would  have paid out in addition to Mrs Ks existing 
Ref: DRN60942752provisions and would have been particularly  useful once  Mrs Ks employee  benefits reduced 
to half after the six months as the PPI would  have continued to pay 10% of the monthly  
outstanding balance for 12 months.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs K any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6094275