K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 27 August 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I didnt 
think this PPI policy had been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
27 September 2019. But neither Mrs H nor FICL sent me anything new to consider.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN60667942COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep things simple,  
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
Background
Mrs H bought  the policy  in 2002, at the same time as taking out a store card. It covered her 
repayments in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Hs store card application had a section for PPI. The form briefly explained  what the policy was 
for and what  it cost.  Then there was a place  Mrs H could sign if she wanted to buy the policy, or which  
could be left blank if she didnt want it. Mrs H signed specifically to take out PPI, separately to signing 
the application as a whole.  So I think that Mrs H was made  aware she had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer remembers  
doing so after so long.  
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. They  did 
have to give Mrs H enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  The 
question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here,  Mrs H 
chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems she was 
eligible for it. Mrs H didnt  have any work benefits  or other protection  in place, so the PPI couldve  
really been useful for her. She did have some savings, but the PPI wouldve covered  her for longer 
than those wouldve lasted,  and it meant she could effectively protect  her savings and use them for 
other things.
As our adjudicator  pointed out, Mrs H did have a medical  condition which  might not have been 
covered. FICL  questioned how the condition mightve affected her ability  to work, and we asked her 
representatives. But so far as theyve told us, it was controlled by regular medication  and doesnt 
seem to have  affected  her ability to work in any significant way. Despite being diagnosed 11 years 
before the sale, it had never caused her to take any time off. And by the time of the sale, Mrs H had 
had her condition for a long time, so she wouldve had a good idea about how it affected her. Its 
worth bearing  in mind  that the PPI was there to cover extended time off work, and I havent been told 
anything that makes  it seem likely Mrs Hs condition  wouldve  ever caused that.
Ref: DRN60667943So based on what Ive got, I cant fairly say that at the time of the sale Mrs H wouldve thought  it likely 
shed ever need to claim for her condition. She could have claimed  for time off for other conditions,  or 
if she lost her job, and she wasnt affected by any of the policys other key exclusions or limitations.  
So it still seems that the policy couldve been useful for Mrs H in her circumstances. And so I dont 
think that better information  was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Please could  Mrs H and FICL  send  me any more  information  or comments to look at by 
27 September 2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6066794