K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Union  Reiseversicherung  AGs decision not to pay their 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs B have  brought  their complaint through a representative, but for simplicity, Ill 
refer to all submissions as being  made by them personally. 
background 
Mr and Mrs B had an annual multi  trip policy with URV. They  went on holiday to Mexico in 
December 2017  and were due to fly home  on 4 January 2018.  But due to adverse weather  
their flight  was cancelled.  They  were rebooked on another flight five days later on 9 January. 
Mr and Mrs B claimed on their travel  insurance  policy for the cancelled flight  as they had 
incurred additional  hotel costs.
URV declined their claim and said that because Mr and Mrs B did not have a direct  flight 
home there was no cover in place for the delayed  connecting flight. 
Our investigator thought this was an unusual  term for a travel  policy.  She said in light of this 
URV should have  made this clearer when Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  given its a 
significant limitation. She said URV  should  reconsider  the claim with the view to reimbursing 
their costs in accordance  with the provisions  set out under the delayed part of the policy. 
She said this was essentially what happened to Mr and Mrs B until they were able to get on 
the next available flight.
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint for mainly the reasons given by our investigator.  
Insurance in designed to provide peace  of mind should an unforeseeable  event occur, 
provided it falls within  the terms of the policy. In the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not persuaded URV  has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly. They  purchased this 
policy in good  faith and for peace of mind that should an occasion  like this occur, they would  
be afforded cover by their travel insurance  policy. URV has highlighted this term to decline 
their claim;
What is covered
If the public transport on which you are booked to travel:
1. is delayed at the final departure point from or to the United Kingdom  (but not 
including delays to any subsequent outbound or return connecting public transport) for at 
least 12 hours from the scheduled  time of departure 
URV has said there is no provision of cover available  for the cancelled  flights.  It said the 
policy will only offer cover for delayed flights provided they follow  a direct route home.  Its 
Ref: DRN62463752also said that this is not relevant in Mr and Mrs Bs case because  they did not have  a direct 
flight back home. But I think its position here is unfair. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B were  supposed to fly from Mexico  to New York, where they would take a 
connecting flight back home. The problem here though, was that adverse weather  conditions 
in the United States meant their flight from Mexico never  left the airport and was 
subsequently cancelled. They were unable to get another flight  until five days  later due to the 
number of customers affected and the demand on the airline. Mr and Mrs B took reasonable 
steps to try and find an alternative route, but this was not possible. So, instead, they 
arranged for cheaper  accommodation closer to the airport,  rather  than extending their hotel 
stay, in case they were  able to get a last minute seat. 
For the purposes of my final decision, I consider this to essentially be the same as Mr and 
Mrs B being  delayed until the next available flight.  I say that because the situation they found 
themselves in had similar  components  that led to the very same  outcome  which was that 
they were stranded until the next available flight.  And so although URVs policy appears 
silent on the cancelled  flight  issue, Im satisfied the delayed term is relevant and should be 
applied in the particular circumstances of this complaint. Mr and Mrs Bs annual  multi trip 
policy pays a cash benefit for every  12 hours  of delay, up to a maximum of £300.
 
Part of URVs argument is that the delayed term does not offer cover because  their original 
flights were broken up by a connecting flight.  But, like our investigator highlighted, I too 
consider it to be an unusual and significant limitation for an annual  multi trip travel  policy. 
And so I would have  expected URV to make this clear at the time of purchase as I consider 
that to be good  industry practice.  URV disagreed and said it cannot  be expected to be list 
every exclusion  under its travel policies  because the list would be endless. 
I should be clear that Im not asking it to do this. Rather, I consider it good  practice  to make 
consumers aware of significant limitations, by giving  anything  unusual the due prominence it 
deserves at the point of purchase. As this will allow  customers, like Mr and Mrs B, to make  
more informed decisions about whether the cover  on offer is right for them. Especially given 
that worldwide travel  is so readily accessible and consumers are frequently  offered 
connecting flights to reduce  costs. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons  Ive explained above. Union 
Reiseversicherung AG must pay the claim in accordance with the policy  terms, plus 8% 
simple interest annually from the date the claim was submitted to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6246375