K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr I used to have with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). The 
mortgaged property was repossessed and sold because of arrears.  Mr I complains that BOS 
sold it for less than it was worth. Hes now being pursued for the resulting shortfall.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think BOS had done  anything wrong. He said,  in summary that BOS 
had sold the house for a price that was consistent  with the professional  opinion  of the 
valuers it consulted before putting  the house  on the market.
Mr I has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  He also asked  that he be 
allowed a personal  hearing to put his case to us, but I decided  that wasnt necessary. Its 
case Im satisfied can be decided fairly  on the documentary  evidence.
my findings
Ive not gone into great  detail in setting  out what the complaints  about. Thats  deliberate; 
ours is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses  and their 
customers. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
BOSs duty was to sell the property for the best price achievable  within a reasonable period 
of time (my italics).  It may be a rather subjective test but the approach we take, in essence, 
is that a lender shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a quick sale nor unduly delay a 
sale (thus  potentially adding further  to the borrowers interest costs) to achieve an 
unrealistically high price.
Its about finding a balance between  the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain  two independent  valuations from suitably-qualified professionals,  and then 
to market the property  with a view to achieving a selling price  at, or close to, the valuations 
provided by those independent professionals.  In the case  of Mr Is property, Im satisfied 
thats what BOS did.
The highest  of the valuations BOS  received  was £125,000, and the property was marketed 
in November 2017 with an asking price  for £132,000, but was reduced in stages over a 
period of months, as no offers were received. Eventually, with the asking  price  having been 
Ref: DRN63094762reduced to £120,000, BOS received offers of £100,000 and £107,500 before accepting  an 
offer for £110,000 in March 2018. 
I think that decision was reasonable.  Ultimately, any property is only worth what someone is 
willing to pay for it at any given time. Here, a sale was achieved  at the highest of the only 
three offers that were  made for the property in almost  four months. Given the timeframe,  I 
consider the sale was achieved at the best price achievable, bearing in mind that the 
mortgage continued to accrue interest until the sale was completed.
I fully appreciate that losing his home was a distressing experience  for Mr I, and 
I understand his strength of feeling about  what has happened. But in all the circumstances, 
Im not persuaded BOS has treated him unfairly  or unreasonably. I know  hes provided 
details of the properties in his area that were on the market at higher prices. I said a moment 
ago that a property is only worth  what someone  is willing to pay for it; in this case, that was 
£110,000. 
Ive noted the statement Mr I provided  from an individual who says he phoned  the estate 
agent with an offer of £132,000 in February  2018.  I checked and there  was no record  of a 
call with such an offer at that time.  Mr I has criticised BOS choice of selling agent,  but it was 
suitably-qualified for the task, so BOS  could reasonably and fairly use it.
My remit  doesnt extend to questioning  the content of the reports. These  were  the 
professional opinions of the parties BOS  was required to consult. It was entitled to rely on 
those opinions when  deciding how much to try and sell the property for. 
Putting all of the above together, my overall  conclusion is that the shortfall BOS is seeking  is 
a valid debt for which it can fairly hold Mr I liable, and can fairly seek repayment proposals 
from them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6309476