K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the increase  in the premium charged on renewal by CIS 
General Insurance Limited for their buildings and contents policy
background
When Mr and Mrs F received their policy renewal notice they were disturbed to note that the 
premium had increased from the previous  year by 130%. They contacted  CIS who advised 
them that the premium  had increased  due to changes in the way it calculated the risk, 
including the flood risk. It said that all customers  are rated using the same  factors and 
relativities and any customer with the same details would have received the same increase 
in price.
Mr and Mrs F were  unhappy with this but decided to renew at the Increased  price. They  
were still concerned that CIS had got the price wrong for their particular property and 
referred to the local flood  map to show they were at low risk.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that CIS had acted reasonably.  He pointed 
out that we wouldnt normally interfere with the way an insurer  calculates its risk, so long as 
the increase was applied  to all customers in a similar position.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Mr and Mrs Fs renewal premium was increased by 130%. CIS has sent us 
information which for reasons of business  confidentiality we cant  share. It is a matter  for the 
insurer how it assesses the risk and how it prices  the policy. If it applies the increase 
consistently across the board so customers in the same position arent singled out unfairly 
then we generally wont interfere in the pricing  of a policy. I can assure Mr and Mrs F that we 
have reviewed the premium increase and that according to its own pricing  criteria,  CIS has 
applied the increase fairly.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs F have what they feel is evidence of the flood risk, and this 
certainly does account for part of the increase.  They feel that there  is a low flood risk. But the 
fact remains that its up to CIS to decide  how its going to price  its policies and I cant  see 
that theres any evidence  that the increase has been  applied unfairly to Mr and Mrs F.
When Mr and Mrs F were  informed of the renewal  premium they were free to either accept it 
or shop  around  to find another  policy. I accept though that Mr and Mrs F may have felt that 
they wanted to renew with the same insurer. That was a matter  for them,  but overall I cant  
see that there was any unfairness in the pricing of their policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN65900952Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6590095