K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Mrs W are unhappy about  the amount Elderbridge Limited says they owe it 
following the sale of their house  which was security for a loan.
background
Mr W and Mrs W had a secured loan with a bank.  Mr W and Mrs W fell behind with 
payments. The bank decided to suppress the interest in 2008. This meant  from that date 
onward Mr W and Mrs W were only charged  simple interest on their loan. The interest and 
fees that accumulated on the loan were recorded as a separate  balance. The loan was 
defaulted, and the debt was sold to Elderbridge.
Mr W and Mrs W put their house  on the market. They received an offer. This was enough  to 
clear the first charge over the property but not enough to clear the loan that had been sold to 
Elderbridge. Elderbridge agreed to the sale even with the shortfall because the sale price  
seemed reasonable given the price comparable properties had reached and it felt the 
property was likely to be repossessed by the first charge holder if the sale didnt go ahead.
During the marketing  period, Elderbridge contacted Mr W and Mrs W at their separate  
addresses in September 2017  and informed them the total amount left to pay was 
£61,474.60. This included  the current balance of £30,768.20  and the accrued interest to 
date of £29.842.64, along with other interest and fees. A further  letter to Mr W and Mrs W 
dated 11 December  2017 detailed what was owed - the balance remained the same,  but the 
accrued interest  amount  had increased to £30,555.09, therefore the total amount payable 
was then £62,187.05. But, in January  2018, Elderbridge wrote to Mr W asking  him to 
complete a Short Settlement Declaration  to agree that after the property sale,  he and Mrs W 
would remain liable  for any shortfall  balance. This letter is dated 26 January and in the top 
right the account  balance  is listed  as £30,768.20 and the arrears balance  is also listed as 
£30,768.20. Elderbridge's  letter of 28 February  states the remaining balance was 
£10,226.96 - after the borrowers  paid £20,541.24  in part settlement after the property sale.  
Mr W also says an agent from Elderbridge confirmed on the telephone during this time it was 
only pursuing the capital repayment.
When Mr W tried to settle the debt in the summer of 2018, he was told he owed around 
£42,000. Mr W complained about this and Elderbridge advised there had been 
misinformation caused  by administration errors. Elderbridge apologised and offered £50 in 
compensation but insisted he still owed around  £42,000.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld.  She felt Elderbridge  hadnt been  
consistent with the borrowers about  what their remaining balance  was. She thought  this 
inconsistency had impacted his financial plans,  and, the arrangements he made to repay the 
outstanding balance. She thought due to the repeated  instances  of misinformation outlined 
above, it was understandable Mr W believed he and Mrs W only owed £10,226.96 after 
making the part settlement of £20,541.24 after the sale of their property. She was of the 
opinion they signed the Short Settlement Declaration on the understanding they owed 
£10,226.96. She felt a fair resolution  to this complaint, was for Elderbridge  to write off the 
accrued interest  amount  of £30.987.56, which  was added on to the account on 17 January, 
and only seek repayment for £10,226.96.
Ref: DRN63166142Elderbridge didnt agree. It said it appreciated an incorrect letter went  out with the wrong 
balance in January 2018,  however  prior to this in September 2017 and December 2017 
correspondence went to the customer with the balance at over £60,000.  So, they were 
aware at this stage  the balance was over £60,000 including  the suppressed interest.  It felt it 
had offered fair compensation for the administrative error.
Mr W and Mrs W agreed with the adjudicator.  When he learnt that Elderbridge  had asked for 
an ombudsmans decision Mr W, however,  asked  me to consider that the whole debt should 
be written off due to the considerable stress  he has experienced. He made  several points 
which included:
He said he held off on signing the agreement that he would accept  the shortfall on an 
unsecured basis  until he had a telephone conversation during which he was advised that 
Elderbridge was only pursuing the capital in respect of this loan.
Having received confirmation  that, he now only owed £10,226.96  he made financial 
plans to clear this debt and several  unsecured debts. This can be seen in his credit file, 
which would show that between  July 2018  and present he had settled 75% of his 
unsecured debts and had been  trying to resolve this debt.
Having read reviews and other customers'  experiences about this company,  he was now 
concerned that there may be other  hidden charges that might appear out of nowhere  
following any decision so if the ombudsman did find in his favour, he would like the 
settlement figure to be exactly  £10.226.96.
He didnt understand how a regulated loan becomes an unregulated loan.
He also wanted  an early settlement offer from 2012 with a different organisation to be 
considered.
He said the final decision to sell the house,  and to cash  in a small pension,  was based 
solely on the communication from Elderbridge  both verbal and written,  that he owed 
£10,226.96. Had that not been the case he would've almost certainly followed another  
course of action, such as keeping  the property to let out until settlement became viable, 
or insolvency as a last resort.
my provisional decision
I didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so I issued a provisional decision. In it I said I could 
understand why Mr W and Mrs W would feel very badly let down  by Elderbridge,  but I 
couldnt agree with the recommendation made by the adjudicator.
Having looked  at the evidence provided I was satisfied that the communication by 
Elderbridge which caused Mr W and Mrs W to believe that after the sale of their property 
they would  only owe around £10,000  to Elderbridge was a mistake.
I explained when  a business  makes  a mistake and provides incorrect  information, we dont 
ordinarily look to put a consumer in the position they would have  been  in if the information 
was true. Instead  we look to see what we think would have happened if the correct  
information had been given.
Ref: DRN63166143In this case Mr W said he wouldnt have proceeded with the sale or cashed  in some of his 
pension pots.  At that stage I hadnt reached  any conclusions about  whether he would have 
cashed in some of his pension pot, but as things currently seemed I thought he would  have 
gone ahead  with the sale of the property. In his letter to Elderbridge dated 19 October 2017 
 so before  the misinformation  had been  given  Mr W said that he believed the offer he had 
received on the property  was the best he was likely to receive any time soon. Elderbridges  
notes agree that the offer seemed fair and it considered there  was a risk that the first charge 
holder would repossess the property.  So, although Mr W said he wouldnt have sold the 
property I thought it was most likely he and Mrs W would have gone ahead with the sale 
even if the misinformation hadnt occurred.
I did, however, think that Elderbridge had underestimated  the effect that the misinformation 
had had on Mr W and Mrs W. They had been  through an incredibly difficult  time over recent 
years. The January and February communications  from Elderbridge must have felt like they 
were starting to move forward and it must  have  been a considerable blow to discover  what  
was still owed. I thought in the circumstances it would be appropriate for Elderbridge to pay 
them £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
I also explained the rules covering the loan didnt change as a result of the change of 
ownership of the loan but the rules for a second charge are different than for a first charge. 
Furthermore, the type of loan had to change when the house was sold because it was 
originally secured on the property and that couldnt continue after the house was sold.  The 
settlement offer in 2012 wasnt relevant as Mr W and Mrs W chose  not to accept  it when it 
was made.  
I noted Mr W was worried,  given what he believed  to be Elderbridges  reputation, that 
charges might appear out of nowhere. I said there was no evidence this had happened here 
but if they did appear Mr W and Mrs W can complain to this service again.
responses to my provisional  decision
Elderbridge accepted my provisional  decision.
Mr W didnt. The points he made  were  points he had made previously. He stressed  that it 
was important I listen to the calls he made before  he sold the house. He says the advice that 
Elderbridge was only pursuing the capital was key to his decision to sell.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling  about this complaint. I also appreciate  that he feels 
what happened wasnt an administrative error but that he was misled.
Ref: DRN63166144I have listened  to several calls between Mr W and Elderbridge. In his call on 
6 November 2017 Mr W does say he might as well let [his] house be repossessed  rather  
than agree to an unsecured debt of £40,000.  He does, however, continue trying  to sell his 
property. By the time of his second call on 25 January his tone has changed he says,  if the 
sale doesnt go ahead the property is likely to be repossessed and therefore argues it is 
better for all if Elderbridge  agrees to remove its charge. He also talks about what  would 
happen if the amount that can be paid wont  discharge the debt in full. In his call on 
29 January his focus seems to have been  entirely  on ensuring the charge was removed to 
allow the sale to go ahead. I think he has concluded  he does need to sell the house. In none 
of the calls Ive listened  to does Elderbridge  say that he wont need to pay the interest.  There  
is nothing which I think would have  fairly  caused  Mr W to believe as a result of the calls that 
he and Mrs W would  only have to pay £10,000.  I think therefore it was only the written 
communication which caused this belief. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think the figure in the written communication  was 
an administrative error. And it wouldnt be fair for me to say they didnt have to pay 
Elderbridge all that they owed it because of an administrative  error.
Listening to the calls has given me a greater sense of Mr Ws desperation and his 
resignation. He comes  across as a very calm  and measured man under considerable strain  
due to recent circumstances. I think that deep  down  he probably knew  that Elderbridge had 
made an error but that he hoped that he was wrong and that the paperwork  he received 
meant he and Mrs W would only owe it around  £10,000. On that basis  Im satisfied that he 
didnt rely on the belief  that the amount  owed  to Elderbridge would only be around £10,000 
when the house was sold, or the pension was cashed in.
I do, however,  recognise the distress  caused  by the administrative error and think that the 
compensation I set out in the provisional  decision of £2,000  is fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order that Elderbridge  Limited pay 
Mr W and Mrs W £2,000 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 August 2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6316614