K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a representative of St Jamess Place Wealth  Management Plc (SJP) 
failed to disclose  the amount of commission that would  be paid when he accepted a 
recommendation in relation to Life Assurance  and Critical  Illness  cover. He also says the 
adviser failed to cancel  his existing policies with his previous provider.
Mr M has used  a representative to bring his complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Mr M himself.  
background
In March 2014, Mr M wanted  to review his life cover and sought  advice from SJP. At the time 
he had cover with another provider L. The adviser recommended two policies with A. They  
were for £7,000,000 of life cover  and £1,000,000 of critical illness  cover  (CIC).  The cover 
with A was similar to what Mr M held with L, but there was a saving in the monthly 
premiums. 
Ultimately, after the introduction of some special terms by A, the policies were put on risk on 
1 August 2014  with £6,000,000 of life cover  and £1,000,000 of CIC. 
In February 2018  Mr M found he didnt have documentation in relation to his policies with A, 
so he asked for duplicates  to be sent to his home  address.  Upon receipt of the documents 
he says he discovered  that SJPs  adviser  had received  around  £58,000  in commission  for 
recommending the two policies. 
In 2014 the adviser was using some  office  space at Mr Ms business. Mr M says he was told 
by the adviser  that the commission would  be £6,000  and that the adviser would give half that 
amount to a third party, B. Mr M doesnt  dispute that B received £3,000  from the adviser. 
But he maintains  that had he known  the amount of the commission at the time, he wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the policies. 
Mr M alleges that the adviser  kept the true amount  of commission  from him and deliberately  
used his business address on the correspondence to enable him to intercept the post to do 
this. In June 2018 Mr M complained to SJP who responded and didnt uphold his complaint. 
They said they relied in part on evidence from their adviser and a statement from Mr Ms 
former general manager in reaching  their conclusions. 
In December 2018 Mr M referred  his complaint to our service. He also added that he was 
unhappy that SJP hadnt  told him he needed to cancel his existing policies with L and that 
his former  employee isnt a reliable witness. One of our investigators  explained  that she 
thought SJP hadnt acted  unfairly and so they didnt  need to do more. As he disagrees, Mr M 
has asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
Ref: DRN62961062In cases like this where  there  are conflicting  accounts, I have to make a judgement  as to 
what I think is most likely  to have happened on the balance  of probabilities. In doing so, Ive 
given greatest weight  to some of the documentation generated at the time. I find this more 
persuasive than testimonial evidence when considering what is most likely to have 
happened. I understand the argument  Mr M presents that he didnt see any of these  
documents, but again I need  to assess things on the balance of probabilities. 
Im also not able to make  a finding  as to whether or not any post was stolen once  it arrived  at 
Mr Ms business address.  And Ive noted Mr Ms comments about the reliability of one of the 
witnesses. But Ive made my findings  without needing to rely on the statement in question  
and without considering an allegation  of theft, which is beyond  our services remit. 
A have  provided  us with Mr Ms signed application  forms in relation to his policies from 
March and June  2014. These documents record that the existing  policies with L would be 
cancelled. They also include Mr Ms business  address and the amount of commission  that A 
would pay to the adviser. 
I understand, as is common, there were some  variations before the policies were put on risk. 
But in signing the declarations, Mr M was agreeing hed checked the information provided 
and that it was correct.  
The documents recorded that the adviser  would be paid commission from A in the region of 
£50,000. If Mr M chose not to check and read this before signing  that isnt something I can 
fairly hold SJP responsible for. The variation in the level of cover before the policy was put 
into place didnt result  in a significant  difference to the amount of commission  paid. So I still 
think its reasonable to expect Mr M to have been  aware of the region  of the amounts 
involved.
Further to this, having had policies of this nature before, I think Mr M would have been aware 
that it was likely he would receive some  paperwork  following the policy  being setup. And 
when he didnt receive any, I think  its reasonable to expect that he might query this with 
either SJP,  A or his advisor (as he did in 2018  when he realised he didnt have any 
documents). 
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that SJP did enough to highlight the key 
information to Mr M in relation to his policies  with A. Even if I were  to accept that Mr M 
wasnt made aware of the amount of commission payable to the adviser   which  I dont  Im 
not persuaded this would have made a difference. Mr M accepts he was looking to reduce 
the cost of his CIC and life cover. The recommendation seems  suitable for him and the new 
policies were cheaper than his previous  cover  with L.
Ive considered Mr Ms testimony that out of principle he wouldnt have taken out the policies, 
had he known the level of commission involved.  But on balance, Im not persuaded that that 
is the case. The commission wasnt paid by him, it was paid by A to SJPs adviser. This is a 
common arrangement  with these types of policies and whilst I can understand his concerns, 
I dont think Mr M was financially disadvantaged as a result.  
I appreciate that when  the policies were  put in place,  there wasnt an updated signed form 
submitted by Mr M. A put the policies on risk as a result of an email from SJPs adviser 
which explained he had spoken to Mr M who was happy to proceed  on the terms offered. 
I find this email persuasive. I think its more likely than not that the conversation  as described 
Ref: DRN62961063took place. And it is a matter for A, not SJP as to what they deem to be suitable instructions 
and whether or not they require a further  signed form.  
With regard to the cancellation of the existing policies, I think  its self-evident that this would 
need to happen. Mr Ms intentions  were to find a better deal by reviewing his cover. It would  
make no sense for the existing policies to remain in place.  SJP maintain that it was Mr Ms 
responsibility to cancel his existing policies.  Mr M says it was down to the adviser and as 
only one of his policies with L was cancelled, he has wasted money  on duplicate cover.
In March 2019 our investigator asked L about Mr Ms polices  with them.  They explained that 
one was still on risk and paid up to date.  They confirmed  the other had been cancelled  in 
2014 due to non-payment of premiums and before doing so theyd  sent arrears  letters  to 
Mr M at his home  address. 
I dont think SJP are at fault for not cancelling the policies with L. I think the responsibility for 
doing so rests with Mr H. I accept  that Mr M might  have thought SJPs adviser would cancel 
his existing policies  for him as part of the service being provided. But when in 2014 he 
received arrears letters in relation to only one of those policies and the direct debit continued 
(until at least March 2019)  for the other   I think its reasonable to expect Mr M to have 
noticed this and taken some  action. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that SJP or their adviser  have 
treated Mr M unfairly, so Im not upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6296106