K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC (trading  as SB) mis-sold Mr A, and the late Mrs A, 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly-premium mortgage PPI policies sold in 1997 and 2000.   
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered Mr As comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr A says he and his late wife were  not told that the PPI was an optional  product, and they 
were not aware  it had been added to their account.  Mr A says they had other loans and had 
always refused to take extra insurance.  He says its unlikely theyd have taken it on this 
mortgage if it had been properly explained to them. 
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness  requires that the person making the allegation  should  present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they 
didnt do something  wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
Ive look at Mr A and his late wifes mortgage application from 1997. There is a section for 
applying for PPI. It isnt at all a clear copy,  but it does appear its the box for yes to PPI that 
has been ticked. And further down has been  written 100% which  is the percentage of 
benefit that would have  gone to Mr A. 
I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened about  22 years ago, 
which is when the application was made. I cant be sure, but I do think  its more  likely than 
not that the PPI was offered as a choice, and that Mr A and the late Mrs A agreed to take it, 
even if this isnt now remembered. Overall, without stronger  evidence, I cant fairly  say the 
PPI was added without the consent of Mr A and the late Mrs A.
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr A and the late Mrs A. So this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was 
suitable for the customers  particular circumstances. But it looks  to me as though any 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based  on what Ive seen of their 
situation at the time. Its likely they were eligible for the policy. And finding yourself 
Ref: DRN60280442unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid 
benefits at the same  time as Mr A (the person covered)  received full employer sick pay, 
and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would need to fall back on 
any savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage. This all would 
have put them in a more  secure position,  if theyd  eventually  lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest they couldnt 
afford the PPI when  they took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially 
useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. 
 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. I think 
its likely  some basic information  about  premiums was at least  given. And I dont anyway  
think full and clear information  about  the costs  would  have affected whether Mr A, and 
the late Mrs A, took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr A would  have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel  it at any time without  further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6028044