K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC  unfairly  refused to cover 
all the damage he claimed  for on his mechanical  breakdown insurance. 
Mr G has been helped  in bringing this complaint by his wife, Mrs G. However,  for ease of 
reading Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of Mr G.
Reference to Amtrust  includes its agents.
background
Mr G said he took his car to the garage  after it went into limp mode.  The garage said there  
were no relevant faults showing  and they were  unable to replicate  the problem when test 
driving it. The garage booked the car in for a few days later.  The next day Mr G said his car 
was difficult to start and when it did start it lost power. He also said a number of warning 
lights showed on the dashboard. The car was taken back to the garage who found  the turbo 
had broken, causing damage to the engine.
Mr G claimed  for this damage on his policy. Amtrust arranged for an engineer  to inspect the 
car. Following this, Amtrust paid Mr Gs claim for the turbo but refused to pay the claim for 
the engine. It said the policy doesnt cover drive on damage. And the engine  damage had 
been caused by Mr G continuing  to drive his car after the turbo was damaged. 
Mr G didnt think this was fair and complained to Amtrust. Amtrust said the engine  had 
suffered a catastrophic failure  within 24 hours  of leaving  the garage, due to the turbo 
breaking up and causing contamination to the internals. It said the engine  damage would 
have been avoided if the garage had carried out further investigation when Mr G had 
originally taken his car in.
The garage didnt  agree. It said the problems Mr G reported werent  indicative  of a turbo 
failure. And it wasnt reasonable for it to carry out the level of investigation that would have 
been necessary  to identify a problem with the turbo when  there  were  no fault codes showing. 
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt  think  Amtrust had shown the engine 
failure was caused  by drive on damage. So, she didnt think  it should  have turned down his 
claim. To put things right, she thought Amtrust  should pay Mr Gs claim for his engine, 
adding 8% simple interest if hes already paid for repairs. She also thought it should pay him 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  it caused in turning down his claim.
Amtrust didnt agree.  It still thought  the damage  had occurred because  the garage hadnt 
identified the fault when  Mr G took in his car. It said our service had previously found 
Amtrust liable when its repairers  had done something similar. It asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs policy  covers him for the sudden mechanical breakdown to all parts unless 
specifically excluded. The terms of the policy say drive on damage after a fault has occurred 
Ref: DRN68916792isnt covered. So, Ive considered whether Amtrusts shown it was most  likely the engine 
failure was due to drive  on damage.
The garage said if there had been a fault with the turbo when Mr G first took his car in, it 
would have shown  on the test drive  or on the ramp as it would affect  the cars performance  
and a fault code would  have shown. They also said if the turbo had broken  up it would have 
shown as an underboost code. It said the turbo ultimately failed after the car had left the 
garage.
Amtrust said if the turbo  had broken up, that would have happened  over time and not at the 
point of breakdown.  So, would have  been  apparent to the garage.  Amtrust said the turbo had 
begun to break up when Mr G took it to the garage  and if it had investigated further it would 
have prevented the damage to the engine.
The engineer Amtrust  appointed said the cause of the turbo  failure was inconclusive. He 
said further investigation was needed to diagnose  the failure correctly. The engineer  doesnt  
conclude that the engine  failure was caused  by drive on damage.
Having taken all this into consideration, I dont  think Amtrust has done enough to show the 
engine failure  was caused by drive on damage. I say this because  the cause of the turbo 
failure isnt known. Im also more  persuaded by the comments  from the garage as they 
inspected the car when  the initial warning light came  on. Im satisfied that if a fault had 
occurred then its likely the garage would have  identified it when inspecting Mr Gs car for the 
reasons theyve given.  Im therefore not persuaded this fault had occurred at the time Mr G 
took his car into the garage. 
Ive thought about Amtrusts point that its been  held responsible when its repairers  havent  
identified a fault and further damage  has occurred. But I havent  seen  enough to conclude 
thats what happened here for the reasons  Ive given above. 
As I dont think Amtrust  should have turned down Mr Gs claim,  the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this particular  complaint is for Amtrust to pay Mr Gs claim subject  to any limits or 
excesses on the policy. If Mr G has paid for repairs already  Amtrust  should add interest  to 
the amount it pays at 8% simple per year, from the date he paid for the repairs  to the date it 
makes payment.
I accept Amtrust turning down Mr Gs claim has caused him distress and inconvenience as 
he didnt have the use of his car. For that reason,  Amtrust should  also pay him £200 for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused  him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to:
Pay Mr Gs claim subject to any limits  or excesses on the policy;
If Mr G has already  paid for repairs Amtrust should add interest at 8% simple  per 
year to the amount it pays from the date Mr G paid for repairs to the date it makes 
payment.1
1 If Amtrust considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr G how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr G certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN68916793Pay Mr G £200 for his distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6891679