K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly defaulted her account.
background 
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 31 July 2019. A copy  of this is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I set out the background to this complaint. I said that I didnt think 
TSB should have  defaulted Miss Ms account. And that I thought it should pay her £350 
compensation for the impact  of its mistake as this default was recorded  on her credit  file for 
a considerable  period of time.
Miss M responded and said that she was happy to accept my provisional decision. TSB has 
acknowledged receipt of the provisional  decision,  but not offered any further  comments  or 
evidence for my consideration at this point.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has offered any new comments or evidence  that changes  my view on this 
complaint, it follows that I have reached  the same conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision. I still think that this complaint should be upheld. And that a payment of £350  
compensation is a reasonable  way for TSB to put matter  right for Miss M. 
my final decision
My final decision is that in addition to the action theyve already taken, TSB Bank plc should 
pay Miss M £350 compensation for the impact  of its mistake.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65916872copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly defaulted her account.
background
Miss M recently found  out that TSB applied a default marker to her current account in August 2016.  
Shes unhappy as she believed the account  had been  closed, and wasnt informed that it was 
overdrawn. Shes also upset that she wasnt told about the default, and that its been impacting on her 
credit score. To put things  right she wants TSB to amend her credit report, close her account, write off 
the arrears, and pay her £2,000 compensation. 
TSB said it doesnt have any record of Miss M trying to close her account. Its explained that the 
account was in arrears following some returned direct debit payments  that occurred  during the period 
April to June 2013. These resulted in charges being applied to the account, taking it overdrawn.  
Interest was then charged on this overdraft up until it was passed  to TSBs  collections team  and 
closed in August 2016 with a debt of £104.32.  
Whilst TSB doesnt feel these charges were added in error, it told our investigator that it would repay  
the debt and remove the default from Miss Ms credit file. Our investigator felt this was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint, and didnt uphold  Miss Ms request for compensation as he said he couldnt be 
certain the bank had made any error here.
Miss M disagrees.  Shes  upset she was never made aware the account  was still open, or that it was 
accruing charges and interest.  And shes told us she has a witness who can confirm she was told by a 
member of staff in branch in 2009 that her account  was closed. Shes  also frustrated that TSB told her 
when she first raised her complaint with them that they would  amend her credit file, but this still hasnt 
been done.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss M feels strongly that this account should have  been closed some time ago. She 
says she asked TSB to close  it in 2009 when she opened an account  with another  bank. TSB has 
provided us with copies of the statements for her account, and I can see evidence of regular  activity 
on it between 2009 and 2011 consisting of ATM and debit card transactions as well as faster  
payments. Then  in June 2011 a withdrawal was made leaving it with a nil balance.  A communications 
company attempted  to take payments by direct debit on a number of occasions  between  April and 
June 2013. These were returned unpaid, leading to bank charges taking the account overdrawn. 
I dont have any reason to doubt that Miss M went into branch and tried to close her account. So I 
dont feel its necessary to get a statement  from her witness in this respect. Though  it appears she 
was actively  using the account until June 2011. So I wonder if there is some confusion as to the date 
this branch visit took place. Either way, given the length of time that has passed and the fact TSB 
dont have any record  of her trying to close the account,  I cant be certain exactly what happened in 
this respect. And it wouldnt  be fair for me to ask TSB to pay Miss M compensation for the fact the 
account remained open when I cant be sure this was due to a bank error.
I also dont think I can fairly hold TSB responsible for the fact Miss M didnt  know the account was still 
open. Its a regulatory requirement  for banks to issue statements to customers. And TSB has 
explained that this is done automatically by its systems, at a minimum  annually, unless  the customer 
has opted to receive paperless statements  in which  case it would  expect the customer to check  
these themselves. Its also shown  us copies  of the statements  for Miss Ms account between 2009 
Ref: DRN65916873and 2016. So on balance, I think its likely statements would have been made  available to Miss M. 
Though I appreciate  she might not have  seen them.
Miss M says she wasnt notified about the charges  that were added to the account  in 2013,  or that it 
had gone overdrawn  and was accruing interest. TSB has explained that following a systems  migration  
in April 2018  some historical customer  information, including mailings, is no longer available. So I 
cant be certain whether  Miss M was notified of these charges  at the time or not. But TSB has shown 
us evidence that it sent her a notice of arrears on 12 July 2016, and a final demand letter on 25 July 
2016, prior to defaulting the account. So Im satisfied it took steps to notify her before taking this 
action.
Miss M says she didnt receive these letters.  But I can see the address  TSB hold for Miss M matches 
the one she gave to our service. So although I cant be certain why they didnt reach  her, again  I dont 
think it would be fair for me to say TSB were at fault for this. 
However, I dont think TSB should have registered a default on her account.  ICO guidance states  that 
a default shouldnt be filed if the amount outstanding consists only of fees and charges. And looking at 
Miss Ms statements I can see the debt here was only made  up of bank  charges and interest.  
TSB has confirmed that its now cleared the arrears and closed the account. Its also now amended 
her credit file to remove the default.
Miss M is concerned about the impact this account had on her credit  score prior to this being  done.  
And shes frustrated it took so long for TSB to amend her credit file as it first promised to do so in 
September 2018. She hasnt been able to show that she was declined credit or treated adversely 
specifically as a result of this default.  But I accept this kind of loss would  be very difficult to evidence. 
And I think its reasonable  for TSB to compensate her for the fact this default  was on her credit file for 
over two and a half years,  when I dont think it should have  been applied at all. I appreciate Miss M 
feels £2,000 compensation would be fair in the circumstances. This isnt in line with the amount of 
compensation I feel I can reasonably  award here. But I think  it would be fair for TSB to pay her £350 
compensation in light of their mistake.
Miss M has advised that when TSB updated her credit file it recorded  that the account closed  in 
August 2013,  not May 2009 when she believes it shouldve been closed. But I can see this date 
coincides with the last activity on the account (the application of bank charges following  an unpaid 
direct debit in June 2013),  before only bank interest was incurred. So Im not going  to ask it to make 
any further amendment. TSB has also pointed out that this account  will drop off her credit  file very 
shortly as its been nearly 6 years since August  2013. So it will not continue  to show on her credit 
reports or affect her credit score.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that in addition  to the action theyve already taken, TSB Bank plc should  
pay Mrs M £350 compensation for the impact of their mistake.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6591687