K821x#15complaint
Mrs P says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to her.
background
Sunny provided  Mrs P with 13 loans between January  2015  and September 2016. These 
were all instalment loans and ranged  from £50-£300.  
Sunny made an offer on loans 11-13  before the case was referred to our service.  An 
adjudicator reviewed the case  and thought that Sunny needed to do more. The adjudicator  
thought loans 4-6 shouldnt  have  been  given to Mrs P due to her financial situation. And he 
thought loans 6 onwards shouldnt have been  given as Mrs Ps borrowing history suggested 
she had become persisted reliant  on short term lending. 
Sunny didnt agree with this view but made  an offer on loans 9-13. Mrs P chose not to 
accept this offer. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed me  an ombudsman  for a
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish
Ref: DRN64567662whether Mrs P could  sustainably repay  her loan  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint. Our adjudicator  didnt think Sunny 
needed to do any more when it gave Mrs P loans 1-3. Mrs P didnt disagree  with this so I 
wont be considering  these loans in detail,  but Ill still be considering them  when looking at 
Mrs Ps financial situation  at the time.
I dont think Sunny shouldve given Mrs P loans 4 onwards and Ill explain why. 
Sunny says it carried out adequate checks on Mrs P when she applied  for loan 4. This
included getting  details of her income and expenditure. This was Mrs Ps fourth loan with 
Sunny and the amounts  Mrs P was borrowing and the repayment periods were steadily 
increasing. So Sunny shouldve  been  looking at Mrs Ps situation in detail and considering 
the impact giving her loan 4 would have.
I can see from evidence submitted by Sunny that it did carry out checks  on Mrs P. However,
I think if Sunny had properly considered Mrs Ps financial situation and the lending I think it
would have seen  that Mrs P was not in a position  to take on this borrowing. I say this 
because Mrs P was borrowing £200 which was due to be repaid over 6 instalments. Mrs P 
also appeared to have  loan 3 still running. So the monthly repayments  for Mrs P were  
£133.34. The information gathered from Mrs P at the time shows  she had an income  of 
£1,200 and her expenditure which included housing  costs,  general living  costs  and existing  
credit commitments  was around  £1,045. This shows that Mrs P was already  in a tight 
financial situation. Loan 4 then meant Mrs P was over-extending herself financially as it left 
her with such little disposable  income. Mrs P was not in a position to sustainably  repay the 
loan and she was likely  to be having issues managing her finances.  
Sunny says that it carried out robust checks and the contractual payment for loan 4 left her 
with sufficient disposable income. However,  as explained above based on the information  
Mrs P provided and her existing borrowing Sunny  shouldve seen the potential  negative 
impact loan 4 would have on Mrs P. Sunny  also says the fact Mrs P repaid loans early 
wasnt of concern. But the pattern  of repaying and borrowing soon after is often a sign of 
financial issues so I think these points  shouldve prompted Sunny to build a clearer picture of 
Mrs Ps situation.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs P, with a view to
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by
Ref: DRN64567663loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mrs P was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Mrs P had taken out 6 loans within  8 months.  So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mrs P was having  to borrow further  to cover 
the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances  and that Mrs Ps 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs P often  had loans running  concurrently and the amounts she borrowed did not 
steadily decrease  over time. So Mrs P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount 
she owed Sunny. 
Mrs Ps last loan was taken out over a year and a half after her first. So Mrs P had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
I think that Mrs P lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ps indebtedness by allowing
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mrs P borrowed was likely  to
have had negative  implications on Mrs Ps ability to access mainstream  credit  and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 4 onwards and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs P paid on loans 4 to 13;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 and 5 from Mrs Ps credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 to 13 should be removed from
Mrs Ps credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Elevate Credit International Limited  to take off tax from this
interest. Elevate Credit  International  Limited must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its
taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Ps complaint. Elevate Credit International
Limited should put things right for Mrs P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mrs P to accept  or reject my decision
Ref: DRN64567664Before 3 May 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6456766