K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about a decision made  by Covea Insurance plc not to offer the renewal of a 
home insurance policy.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Cs complaint in a provisional decision, which Ive attached to 
this decision.
replies to provisional decision
Both parties  have replied   Covea said it had nothing to add while Mr C disagreed  with my 
decision. 
In summary  Mr C says;
The crux of his complaint is the wording  of a letter  dated  the 19 January 2018 which 
said hed not been cooperating in respect  of the claim and it was this that cost him 
more money to arrange alternative insurance
Coveas letter dated the 9 April 2018 said he had assisted with the claim investigation 
and the decision  not to renew  was a commercial decision
Covea was aware that his relative was operating  a business from his home  as hed 
spoken to his insurance broker  in 2015  requesting all information be passed onto his 
insurers. And he arranged cover for public/employers liability  with the broker.
Covea maintained that he hadnt assisted in the defence of a claim in an email  with 
his broker, and this prevented  him getting insurance  and cost him time and money.
He told his new broker that hed been declined insurance 
Coveas letter dated the 9th April exonerated him but was a bit late in the day as hed 
already suffered a loss. Had the letter dated the 19th January been retracted prior to 
the 27th February then he wouldnt have  complained
As hed been  told he hadnt been cooperating it was a material  fact he had to 
disclose
An email dated  23 June (and one 10 May) did not convey his views;  particularly  that 
he wanted the claim settled as soon as possible.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was aware from the information Covea had originally said that Mr C hadnt cooperated with 
the claim,  and then later changed this saying he had assisted. Mr C had an insurance  broker  
making representations to Covea / the loss adjuster  during  the investigation of the claim on 
his behalf. Information from Covea included  reference to a conversation with Mr Cs broker  
towards the end of June 2017. And it is apparent that the broker  said Mr C was no longer 
willing to assist with the defence. In May 2018 theres another reference to Mr C still not 
agreeing to assist  Covea  further should the claim go to court  at a later date. 
Ref: DRN60939542An email  of 23 June  from Mr Cs broker clearly  states he was not willing to go to court and 
wanted to know  if the claim could  be settled as soon as possible. While Mr C disputes this 
was his position that was the information Covea had and so its original conclusion that he 
wouldnt cooperate  further was a valid and fair conclusion in my view.  And the fact that it 
later decided to alter its reason, without a change  in circumstances, didnt mean that its 
original conclusion was wrong. 
On the issue of Covea not knowing about his relatives business, the policy schedule 
provided is not a policy underwritten  by Covea rather its a different insurer. So while  Mr C 
took out this insurance cover through his broker, who was acting for Mr C, theres insufficient 
evidence to show that either Mr C or his broker made Covea aware.
The new policy  documentation Mr C provided has the answer no to the question  about 
declined / refused insurance.  I hadnt said that Mr C had given this answer simply that no 
was the recorded answer.  Mr C has told us, he wasnt bothered about staying with Covea 
just that the way Covea had said it refused renewal. For the avoidance of doubt Mr C has 
sent an email exchange  with the broker of that policy in which he mentions Coveas refusal. 
But the issue is that as the answer  with the new insurer  is recorded as no Im not 
persuaded that Coveas refusal  meant Mr C paid a higher premium  the insurer of the new 
policy wasnt seemingly aware  about the previous refused renewal.
In summary,  Im persuaded  by the information  provided that the information  Covea had from 
Mr C, through his broker, was that he was refusing to cooperate further with the defence  as 
he wouldnt  go to court. As such, Covea was entitled  to and fairly reflect  this as the initial  
reason for refusing  to offer renewal terms. The fact it later changed its view with no apparent 
new information didnt  mean its initial reason was incorrect.
And Im not satisfied  that Mr C has demonstrated he paid more  for insurance as a result of 
the refusal given  the new insurer hadnt  recorded  the refused / declined  insurance policy as 
a material fact.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Covea Insurance  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60939543copy of provisional decision
date of decision: 11 July 2019
Complaint
Mr C complains about a decision made by Covea Insurance plc not to offer the renewal of a home  
insurance policy.
Background
Mr Cs relative ran a business from Mr Cs home. A client allegedly sustained an injury and claimed 
against Mr C. Coveas policy  offered cover for this type of incident in certain circumstances and it 
started to investigate  the claim. As part of the investigation Covea took statements  from Mr S and his 
relative but there came  a time where the relative  no longer wished to give information or sign a 
witness statement. Here was also an issue about  the relatives place of residence, which potentially 
impacted the policy.
It became apparent that Mr C had failed to let Covea know about  the business being run from his 
property and there  was a concern about background checks being  done for employees of the 
business. The claimant whod allegedly suffered  the injury stopped pursuing the matter for reasons  
related to their liberty.  Covea thinks there is a chance the matter could be pursued in the future and 
the claimant had appointed solicitors.
The crux of Mr Cs complaint though is about Coveas  decision to refuse renewal of his home 
insurance policy.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and explained that it was a matter for Covea  to decide 
who it wanted  to offer insurance to. But she said wed expect Covea to act fairly and reasonably when 
making a decision about whether to renew a policy. Part of her investigation included a statement  
from a senior underwriter at Covea, which alluded  to the relatives refusal to assist with the claim  
investigation. But our investigator explained that Mr C had been cooperative and the policy  in referring 
to obligations and conditions for you meant Mr C. 
Covea raised other issues such as;
i. Mr Cs failure  to disclose the business;  and 
ii. The relatives  failure to carry out background checks on employees. 
On (i) it was apparent that Covea would have covered this risk if disclosed and on (ii) background  
employee checks wouldnt  have revealed any issues. The investigators opinion  was that taking all 
matters into consideration Covea hadnt exercised its discretion fairly. 
To put things right the investigator said Covea should  calculate  what  the renewal premium  would 
have been and if it was less than the £3,643.41 Mr C had paid for a new policy with a different  insurer, 
Covea should refund the difference. She also said Covea should provide Mr C with a letter explaining 
that the refusal to renew was an error  and pay him £200 compensation.
Covea disagreed with the investigator. In summary, Covea said Mr Cs statement  said the relative 
was living with him at the time of the incident and so was included within the policy definition of your  
family. And the relative failed to give a definitive  answer  on the residence issue before leaving  the 
UK. 
Covea said it had already  retracted the reason  why it didnt offer renewal but the decision not to offer 
renewal itself remains. And the premium Mr C paid to the new insurer was less than the renewal price 
of more than £4,000 it would  have asked Mr C to pay so there was no financial loss.
Ref: DRN60939544The investigator reviewed  further information including that of the renewal  premium.  She said the 
amount Mr C had paid for his new policy was for one property. And comparing the elements  covered  
in that policy, to the one hed previously held with Covea, the price  was more than hed paid Covea.  
She thought  Covea should  cover the difference and pay some compensation. 
Covea disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint and make a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Coveas final response dated 9 April 2018 sets out the reason  why Covea refused to renew the policy. 
And in this Covea said it was a commercial  decision as it was uncomfortable with the risk following  
the loss (more  appropriately  though the claim). 
Covea is entitled  to refuse  to offer renewal and like the investigator I would  expect Covea to do this 
taking into account the general  industry principle  of treating customers fairly. When  coming  up to 
renewal there was a history  of a claim that hadnt been without its challenge. Mr C hadnt informed 
Covea about the business  being run from his property and there were issues to do with employee 
checks. In addition  there  was a lack of clarity  about whether the relative  lived with Mr C  Mr C had 
said he did and the relative was unsure but wanted to clarify this. The relative didnt  clarify this and as 
far as Im aware had left the UK to travel. 
The fact that Covea may have  covered the risk doesnt necessarily mean that it should. I think it was, 
in this case, fair for Covea to reassess whether the totality of the risks presented were ones it wanted 
to continue insuring at renewal. This includes Covea taking into all the circumstances of the claim and 
the contextual background of not being told about the business operation and the challenge  in 
identifying who formed part of Mr Cs household.
I then turn to the consequences of Coveas  decision not to renew.  Mr Cs submissions to us, in brief, 
are that if Covea had quoted an unrealistically high renewal premium then he would have renewed 
elsewhere, the policy would lapse and there would be no adverse information to disclose, such as the 
fact that he had been  declined cover. And he says that as a result of what Covea  did hes had to seek  
out insurance  through an alternative  provider  at an increased cost related, or at least implied, to the 
fact that his renewal was declined.  
I appreciate the situation  as outlined by Mr C in the information hes provided. Covea has a duty to 
provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. So it wouldnt have been fair, in my view,  for 
Covea to have offered  renewal at a highly  inflated premium. And on the policy schedule Mr C has 
sent us for his new cover  I note the following question posed;
Have you or any person(s) living with you ever had insurance cancelled, refused, declined or voided, 
or had any special terms imposed?
The recorded  answer is no and so I dont agree that the consequence of having been declined 
renewal has been shown to be the reason Mr C paid a higher insurance  premium. And in any case  I 
note the new policy is not a like for like comparison with the policy  Mr C had held with Covea. 
In summary, the crux concerns the policy renewal  being declined. Covea has limited the reasons for 
being unable to renew the policy in its final response as follows;
[Covea] have  thoroughly investigated your complaint  about  our decision  not to offer renewal  and 
while we appreciate  you have assisted with the investigation of your claim, this was commercial 
decision because  we were uncomfortable with the risk following your loss. We therefore  are unable to 
offer renewal terms.
Ref: DRN60939545Having considered  everything  very carefully Im satisfied that Covea has set out a factually correct  
statement about its refusal to renew  Mr Cs policy. And as such  Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable  
in all the circumstances.
I will comment on the claim itself even though it is a peripheral matter to the complaint.  The policy 
entitled Covea to carry out an investigation  and indeed it needed to do this to decide  how it was going 
to deal with any third party  claim. Where an investigation reveals contradictions or questions about 
the cover itself Covea is entitled to look at those matters. There were issues and the investigation had 
to work  those through. In the end Covea said its decision wasnt related to the issues identified 
directly, such  as not assisting with the investigation, but rather about the overall risk following the loss. 
Covea hasnt apportioned  blame or wrongdoing on Mr Cs part and, in my view, has exercised its 
discretion about whether  to offer continuing cover to Mr C fairly.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN6093954