K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  concerns a whole of life policy sold to them  by a predecessor of 
ReAssure Limited. Following a recent review of the policy theyve been informed that the 
level of cover will need to reduce. They say they were  never warned of this possibility.
background
Mr and Mrs J started  their joint whole of life policy in 1987. It provided life cover of £25,000 
for Mrs J and £7,000  for Mr J for monthly premiums of £15. They  agreed to index-link their 
premiums and life cover  to reduce the impact of inflation. As a result, their premiums 
increased annually  until 2012 when they asked for these increases to be stopped.
The policy had its first performance review in 1997 and it was determined  that no changes 
needed to be made   the premiums would  continue to support  the sum assured  until the 
next review. 
ReAssure should  then have reviewed the policy again after every five years but it failed to do 
so. Its said that no financial loss was incurred by Mr and Mrs J because if the reviews had 
been carried out at the correct intervals  the premiums and level of life cover wouldve 
remained the same. ReAssure did, however, pay Mr and Mrs J £250 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by its failure  to carry out the reviews.
When the next performance review was eventually carried out, in 2017, it showed  that an 
increase in premium   or a reduction in cover   would be necessary.  Mr and Mrs J were 
unhappy with this as they say they were unaware  that the policy was reviewable.  They  also 
stressed that ReAssures failure  to carry out reviews had deprived them of the opportunity of 
cancelling the policy earlier  and seeking  alternative  cover elsewhere.
The adjudicator accepted  that the failure to review  the policy had deprived Mr and Mrs J of 
the option of making alternative  arrangements. However, she noted that when the review  
had been carried  out in 1997, and no changes to the premium had been necessary,  Mr and 
Mrs J hadnt cancelled their policy or shopped around. So, she concluded  that if the policy  
had been reviewed later as it shouldve been  and this had also shown that no increase in the 
premiums was necessary  it was unlikely Mr and Mrs J wouldve been  prompted to make any 
changes.
The adjudicator then went on to review the sale of the policy. She explained that this had 
taken place in October  1987, prior to the provision of investment advice becoming regulated 
under the Financial Services Act 1986. At the point of sale, the adviser simply had a duty to 
exercise reasonable care and skill and make  an appropriate recommendation. There  was no 
requirement to assess suitability. 
The adjudicator noted that at the time of the sale Mr and Mrs J were both in their 30s with 
dependent children and were seeking to arrange  life cover.  She therefore felt that the whole 
of life policy seemed  broadly appropriate for their needs. She noted that they were also 
provided with an illustration and a product  guide  which confirmed that the policy was 
reviewable.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree, saying, in brief; 
Ref: DRN69043832If the reviews had been carried out they couldve  judged  whether to continue  with the 
policy
The costs associated  with the policy appear to have increased  over the years
If these had been projected they wouldve had the opportunity  to re-invest with 
another provider.
Ultimately,  the policy was mis-sold and they should therefore be compensated for the 
years they couldve been  paying  to another provider
They also provided  a newspaper article  that they felt supported their assertion that the policy  
wasnt suitable.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
reviews
ReAssure has acknowledged  its error  in not carrying out the policy reviews at the 
appropriate times and its made an offer to Mr and Mrs J in this respect. So Ive thought 
about whether  this is sufficient and whether Mr and Mrs J mightve  acted differently if the 
policy had been  reviewed at the correct times and theyd received information regarding  
those reviews. 
As the adjudicator noted, Mr and Mrs J continued  with the policy  when they were in receipt  
of the first, correctly-timed review information in 1997. So, on balance, I think its reasonable 
to conclude that, more like than not, they wouldve again continued   with  the policy  if theyd 
received confirmation  that no changes were necessary  in 2002 and 2007. 
In 2012, although the policy  once again didnt  get reviewed as it shouldve been, changes  
were made  the removal of the indexation.  Mr and Mrs J were provided with an updated 
illustration that showed that the change   a reduction in premium to £45 per month  would 
mean that the policy would potentially have no value by 2021. 
As they continued  to pay the premium  after this, I think its reasonable to conclude  that 
receiving information  about the policy but in a different form  as the results of correctly-
timed reviews  wouldve been  unlikely to prompt them to act any differently. 
suitability
As the adjudicator highlighted, the sale of the policy took place pre-regulation, when there 
was no requirement  to assess suitability by looking closely at a consumers  needs  and 
circumstances. The more  limited requirement  at the time was that an adviser should act 
reasonably in making a recommendation that was broadly appropriate.
Ref: DRN69043833As Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time suggest a need for cover I dont think I can 
conclude that the adviser  did anything wrong in selling  this policy  that provided them with 
flexible cover, as there was no clear term that was required. The recommendation wasnt 
associated with a specific liability; for instance,  a mortgage. 
in summary
I note Mr and Mrs Js comments about the costs associated with the policy.  But ReAssure 
has demonstrated that these havent risen in recent in recent years.  Its also explained the 
new format in which the information about costs is now communicated and why, on the face 
of it, the costs might have  appeared  to have increased  because  of the application of a 
monetary value to all the charges, even those that arent actually met by way of a deduction 
from the policys value.  So, I dont think its done  anything wrong  in this respect, or that any 
different presentation of the information  wouldve prompted Mr and Mrs J to act differently. 
Also, in respect  of the newspaper article  provided, we look at each complaint on the basis  of 
its specific, individual circumstances and merits. So, while I have looked at the information, it 
has not influenced my decision in any way. 
In conclusion, while its clear that ReAssure made errors in not reviewing Mr and Mrs Js 
policy, I think its response to that issue has been  sufficient. Having carefully considered the 
matter generally, Im not persuaded that it acted  incorrectly or unreasonably  in another 
respect. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6904383