K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained about Amtrust Europe  Limiteds handling of his motor legal expenses 
insurance.
Reference to Amtrust  includes their agents.
background
In August  2015,  through an insurance broker, Mr J took out two separate  insurance  policies.  
One was a third-party fire and theft (TPFT) motor trade insurance policy.  The other was a 
motor legal expenses  insurance policy. The insurer of the motor policy was a separate  
business to Amtrust. 
In April 2016, Mr J was in his car when he was involved in an accident  with a van that he 
said was parked illegally. Mr J said the van backed  into his car and caused  damage.  He also 
said that both he and his two young  children, who were in the car at the time, suffered some 
physical discomfort.  
Mr J said he didnt want to claim on his own policy because he didnt want  his no claims 
bonus (NCB)  and future premiums to be affected. He said the van driver was to blame for 
the accident and he wanted  an admission of liability from the van driver before his car was 
repaired. 
Mr J said he wasnt  happy with many  aspects of Amtrust's service. Amtrust looked  into       
Mr Js complaint but they said they had acted  reasonably. Mr J brought  his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked  into it. He felt that both Mr J and Amtrust could have 
done more to avoid the breakdown  in their relationship. But he felt Amtrust could have 
provided a better service. Our investigator therefore  recommended that Amtrust pay Mr J 
£150 compensation. But because Mr J didnt  agree  with our investigator, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 February 2020.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr J, but Im not intending to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr J has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all 
those very carefully.  But, in this decision,  I will focus on what  I consider to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Amtrust have dealt  with Mr J in a fair and reasonable 
way.
Before I comment on the events specific to this complaint, I think its important for me 
to explain certain general operating practices  within the insurance industry.
The motor  insurance  Mr J had was TPFT. That meant his insurer  was only 
responsible for dealing  with: a claim from a third party if Mr J damaged  their vehicle 
or caused some other loss, for example personal  injury; a claim from Mr J that his 
own vehicle was stolen;  or a claim from Mr J that his own vehicle suffered damage  or 
loss as a result of fire. The main limitation  of a TPFT  policy is that the policyholder, 
such as Mr J, cant use their own insurer to claim against a third party for damage 
Ref: DRN60478982caused to their own vehicle. That is the position Mr J was in as he said the van driver 
had damaged his car. A fully comprehensive  insurance policy,  however, would have 
entitled Mr J to use his own insurer to deal with the damage to his car and to pursue 
the van drivers insurer for an admission of liability and for them to pay for Mr Js 
damage.
So, while Mr J said he didnt want to claim for his damage through his own insurer  
because he didnt want his NCB  and future premiums affected, the reality was that 
even if he had wanted to, he wouldnt have been  able to use his own insurer.  Thats  
because his policy was limited to TPFT  cover.  One alternative for Mr J would  have 
been for him to pursue the van drivers insurer himself directly  or to employ a solicitor  
to do that on his behalf. Another alternative would have been for Mr J to apply under 
his legal expenses  insurance to see if Amtrust would fund his legal expenses to take 
the van driver to court for an admission of liability.
But Mr J used another alternative. He used  a claims management company (CMC) to 
pursue the other drivers  insurer. That option is often available  for people  like Mr J 
who dont have fully comprehensive insurance.  But equally,  in certain circumstances,  
policyholders with fully comprehensive insurance  may choose to use a CMC rather  
than claim through  their own insurer. A CMC  is a separate  business  and is 
independent of the insurer and broker. Brokers do sometimes refer policyholders to 
certain CMCs if they think a policyholder  might  benefit from a CMCs services. But 
using a CMC  is ultimately a customers decision.
CMCs will often only take on a claim if they believe the claimant wasnt  at fault for the 
accident and that the other  drivers insurer is likely to admit liability.  Thats because a 
CMCs ability  to recover its customers  losses, unlike  an insurer  under a fully 
comprehensive policy, is very limited in the event the other  drivers insurer doesnt 
accept liability. 
Turning to the circumstances of Mr Js case,  I understand that once he told his broker  
about the accident his broker referred him to a CMC  for them  to assist him in 
pursuing the van drivers  insurer. I think the broker had referred Mr J to a CMC 
because he had said from the start that he didnt want to claim on his own insurance 
policy but he wanted the van drivers insurer to deal with it. And as Ive explained 
earlier, because Mr Js cover was limited  to TPFT, he wouldnt have been  able to 
pursue his claim through his own insurer.
I understand that between April and October 2016, the CMC tried to assist  Mr J by 
getting the van drivers  insurer to accept liability. But the van drivers insurer  didnt 
accept liability and said Mr J was to blame for the accident. And because at that point 
the actions the CMC  could take were  limited, they decided  they couldnt  progress 
Mr Js claim any further. I understand that sometime around the end of October/early  
November 2016,  Mr J was told he could claim on his motor legal expenses  insurance 
to see if Amtrust could help him take his claim forward.
Its usual for insurance companies, like Amtrust,  to use other  independent 
businesses to act as their agents (on their behalf)  in providing certain services to 
their policyholders.  And although theyre an independent business,  an agent acting 
on behalf of Amtrust in those circumstances means that Amtrust are responsible for 
their agents  actions. To assist Mr J in applying for legal  expenses cover to progress 
his claim against the van drivers insurer, Amtrust used  a claims agent. The claims 
Ref: DRN60478983agents role was to gather  information  to put before a solicitor  for that solicitor  to 
consider if Mr Js claim against the van drivers  insurer had reasonable prospects of 
success if it went to court.  Legal expenses insurers, like Amtrust, consider  a number 
of factors before deciding whether or not to fund the legal expenses  of a policyholder 
to take another party to court. And one of the most  important stages of that process  
is to get a legal opinion  from a solicitor to see what the chances of success are. 
Before that can be done, its important that specific information is gathered.
The claims agent acting  on behalf  of Amtrust was the same business  as the CMC 
that tried to help Mr J between April and October 2016. But, as Ive already 
explained, that business acted in the capacity  of an independent CMC between April 
and October 2016.  And from the end of October/early November 2016 onwards that 
same business acted in the capacity of Amtrusts claims agent. But Im aware  that to 
Mr J he was dealing with the same business  (or their sister businesses) throughout. 
And he was unhappy with their service throughout their involvement. But at the time 
Mr J complained about the CMC, our service  didnt have jurisdiction (the authority) to 
look into complaints  about  CMCs.
So, in this decision I am only looking at the actions of Amtrusts  agents once they 
took on that responsibility. That is from the point at which it was identified that Mr J 
might wish to claim on his Amtrust  policy. Their actions before then werent  taken on 
Amtrusts behalf and don't  form part of the complaint Im looking at. I know this will be 
frustrating for Mr J, especially  as he said a lot of the poor service he experienced  
happened between  April and October  2016.  But I cant consider what  happened  
during that period as Amtrust werent involved.
As Ive explained, Amtrust were responsible for the actions of their claims agent from 
October/November 2016. That is why I shall refer to the actions Mr J complained 
about as being those  of Amtrust.
On 2 November  2016, Amtrust wrote to Mr J setting  out the current  position  and how 
they proposed  taking  the claim forward. Amtrust explained that because  the van 
drivers insurer  was disputing liability; as Mr Js cover was TPFT; and because  he 
had legal expenses  insurance, the only way forward was to issue legal proceedings. 
They told Mr J that to enable their solicitor to assess the claim and advise on the 
chances of success,  Mr J would have to complete a statement and diagram  which 
Amtrust sent Mr J. They also said that they had written to Mr Js witness  and they 
required her to confirm she was willing to attend court. Having reviewed  all the 
information provided to me, Ive seen that Amtrust asked Mr J on numerous 
occasions to complete  the statement and diagram they provided him. On a number of 
occasions Mr J said he didnt think that was necessary as he had already provided  
the relevant information, including his version  of events and photographs. On other 
occasions Mr J said he did complete the statement and diagram in the format  
Amtrust wanted and that he provided it to them. But Amtrust dispute  that and said 
they never received it. And other  than what Mr J has told us, Ive seen no convincing 
evidence to satisfy  me that he did provide the information Amtrust asked for in the 
format required.  And even  if Mr J had provided that information, when he was told by 
Amtrust on a number of occasions that they hadnt  received  it and couldnt  progress  
things without that information, I think it would  have been reasonable for Mr J to have 
provided the information in the format  required  again. But I cant  see that he did. And 
without that information Amtrust wasn't able to progress his claim. But I don't think 
Ref: DRN60478984that lack of progress  was because Amtrust  handled the matter unfairly or 
unreasonably.
One of Mr Js complaints  was that he found  Amtrusts staff to be rude, unhelpful; 
harassing and abusive.  But I didnt find that to be the case in the call recordings Ive 
listened to. Nor did I find evidence  of that in any of Amtrusts written correspondence 
to Mr J. Mr J also complained that Amtrust threatened to close his file and refused to 
give him the name of the managing director and other senior managers. While one 
manager did say she would close the file, that was after a telephone call during which  
Mr J refused to provide  the information Amtrust  said they needed.  And during which 
Mr J used inappropriate language, was aggressive and rude. So I dont think 
Amtrusts warning that they would close the file was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. On some occasions during calls, Amtrusts  staff were reluctant to 
pass Mr J onto certain people he wanted to speak  with. And they were reluctant to 
give the names of certain people, including the managing director. But given Mr Js 
behaviour during some of the calls, I can understand why Amtrusts  staff were at 
times reluctant and cautious in what information  they felt they could give to Mr J. 
Mr J also said that Amtrust caused unreasonable delays which meant  his claim was 
delayed and he ended up paying for his cars  repairs.  But I dont think that was the 
case. Amtrust tried to progress things and told Mr J what information they needed. 
But as Ive mentioned above, I dont think Mr J was cooperative.
I am aware  that Mr J was going through a difficult time in his private life and that the 
accident and the process  of trying to claim against the van driver was difficult  and 
stressful for him. But having  looked at Amtrusts actions carefully, I think they acted 
reasonably. Im therefore not intending to uphold this complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Amtrust didnt comment. Mr J didnt 
accept on my provisional findings  and he made  the following points:
He said my provisional decision didnt comment on the actions of the broker.
He said he wasnt aware  that a CMC was involved until I mentioned it in my 
provisional decision.
Mr J also asked for further time to provide more information. He was given an extension  until 
3 March. But, as of 4 March, Mr J hadnt  provided any more  information.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
I understand Mr J wasnt happy  with the actions of the broker  and questioned why I didnt 
address his concerns about their actions in my decision. This complaint is against Amtrust 
and their actions. So, I cant comment on what the broker (or any other third party not acting 
on Amtrusts  behalf)  may or may not have done. And Mr J not knowing that a CMC was 
involved in his claim isnt because of anything Amtrust  did or didnt do.
Ref: DRN60478985my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6047898