K820x#14complaint
Miss V says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
AXA told us that Miss V had taken the store card prior to her buying  the policy on 6 July 
1995 by the telephone. 
 
Miss V told us that she was employed  at the time of the sale, but that she couldnt recall 
what type of work she was doing or the name of her employer. Miss V told us she was not 
entitled to any company  sick pay and didnt have any other means  of repaying her store card 
should she be unable  to work.  Miss V has said she was in good health at the time of the sale 
but that she had had a medical condition many  few years prior to the sale. I will say more  
about this later in the decision.   
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, involuntary unemployment and life cover  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of Miss Vs store card 
balance in the event of Miss V being unable to work due to accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. 
At the time,  the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly  outstanding  balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Miss Vs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Vs representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss V wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Vs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN68490452claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Miss V about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss V and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Miss V received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Vs. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Vs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN68490453The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So, Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Miss Vs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Vs complaint. 
Ref: DRN68490454key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss V with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Miss V sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss V, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss V suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss V and 
AXA, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Vs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss V know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
AXA told us the store card was taken out in store without PPI some  time before the sale of 
the PPI. AXA told us the PPI was added to the store card during a telephone call on 6 July 
1995. Weve been given  no recording of the sales call and seen no telephone  scripts from 
the time of the sale. We have seen telephone scripts from 2003 which  show that Miss V 
would have, most likely,  been  given a choice about taking cover.  But the distance in time 
from the time of this sale must be borne in mind  when  thinking about how much weight to 
attach to them. 
So, considering how long ago the sale was and in the absence  of any detailed  testimony  
from Ms C in this sale, I havent  seen  sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint in this 
matter. 
So, considering all the submissions made in this case about these issues,  and in the 
absence of any detailed  testimony from Miss V to the contrary, taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  that Miss V knew the policy was optional  and she agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN68490455did AXA provide advice?
AXA told us that advice wasnt provided during this sale. Miss V has offered no testimony 
about whether  she was advised or not. I have seen  no evidence of a formal recommendation 
having been made to Miss V in this sale. So, considering how long ago these events 
happened, and in the absence of any detailed  testimony from Miss V to the contrary, it 
seems most likely that Miss V was sold the policy without advice.
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss V. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Miss V to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
AXA has referred us to a copy  of paperwork  for policies from around the time of the sale  
which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Miss Vs. It has also 
referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve  received, including the policy  
terms and conditions document  which I accept on a balance  of probabilities  applied  to 
policies like Miss Vs. We have policy booklets  from three years  before the sale and one 
from 5 months after the sale for the actual  store card. So, as this is closest  in time to the time 
of the sale, Ive used  this as the policy details that most likely applied in this case.  
Looking at the information provided to Miss V at the time, I dont think AXA gave  Miss V the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  over the phone. I dont know what AXA told Miss V about the PPI, but I 
think its unlikely she would have  agreed to take it out without at least  having a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and involuntary 
unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Miss V would have thought it was free.
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Miss Vs attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Miss V, including the need to maintain premiums during 
a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately  
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So, I dont think AXA gave  Miss V sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN68490456In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Vs representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Vs. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Vs representative considers to be poor  
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss V about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Vs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Miss V has suggested.  And taking into account the law, industry codes  and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Miss V? To what extent  did Miss V suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss V. 
So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss V 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss V 
would have still taken  out the policy, had AXA done  things properly. 
Miss V says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss V had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss V chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Miss V thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss V has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss V ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept that AXA didnt make clear  on the application form and they didnt make clear 
the on-going cost information. So, while Miss V didnt know some  things, the ultimate 
position in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what she would  reasonably 
have thought from the information she based  her decision  to take out the policy on and 
found acceptable. 
Ref: DRN68490457Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss V thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss V knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  or had consulted a doctor about during  the 12 months  
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss V 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss V be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Miss V pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss V from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Vs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. I have been presented with insufficient 
evidence that Miss V was not eligible  for its benefits  and it provided cover that, despite its 
limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved valuable to her should the insured risks have 
become a reality.  The policy could have  paid out in the absence  of any company sick pay or 
savings.
 
Miss V was employed at the time of the sale and so wouldnt have been caught by any 
significant exclusions that pertain to people with different  employment  status.  And although 
Miss V says she had a medical condition in 1971, many years  before the PPI was taken out, 
and the policy may not have provided cover had she needed time off work because  of this 
condition, I dont think better information about this exclusion would have put her off 
agreeing to it. Ill explain why I say this. 
Miss V has told us she had wisdom  teeth removed in 1971  and it cost her a week off work  at 
that time.  But the sale of PPI happened  in 1995,  24 years later. Miss V has not provided any 
further detailed  testimony  about the condition and no testimony  that the condition had 
caused her any ongoing  issues or caused her to take a single day off work  in the intervening  
years before the sale.  
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss V 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss V from taking out the policy, Miss V, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
Ref: DRN68490458If Miss V had known  she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any work  which  in the insurers  view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Miss Vs 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss V would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and she didnt have any means of meeting her card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness,  and, she thought,  
redundancy. And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
Miss Vs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss V would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Vs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss V 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss V believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss V in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN68490459That is because,  while I accept its possible that she would not have  taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude that AXA should pay Miss V compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss V thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Miss V, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Vs representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss V and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss V in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6849045