K822xcomplaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the way Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has dealt with a 
claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In late 2012 Mrs G entered into agreement with a company called My Planet Limited  (My 
Planet) for the supply and installation of a solar panel system.  The system cost £10,370 
and Mrs G says she was told that the financial  benefits produced by the system would be 
sufficient to cover the cost of the system within 6-7 years.
Mrs G paid a substantial  deposit for the system upfront, and My Planet arranged  for the 
balance of the cost to be funded by a loan with Shawbrook, to be repaid over a 15-year term.  
The loan was settled  in full by Mrs G less than a year later.
The financial  benefits from the system  come  in the form of energy savings and feed-in-tariff 
(FIT) payments received  from selling excess energy back to the grid.  It became apparent  
to Mrs G that the system wasnt generating the savings and income  that she expected.
My Planet had stopped trading and so Mrs G was unable to make  a complaint to it.  But  
under s.75 a finance provider can be responsible for misrepresentations and breaches of 
contract to the same extent as the supplier of goods.   So, Mrs G made  a claim under s.75 to 
Shawbrook.
Shawbrook was unable  to resolve  issues for Mrs G and so she referred her complaint to this 
Service.  Soon after, Shawbrook issued an offer of compensation to Mrs G.  It calculated that 
the benefits the system would generate over the 15-year loan term would have been 
£12,300.20, which was more than Mrs G had paid in total.  Although it considered  there was 
no loss, it offered to pay £2,000 in compensation along with a further £200 for the trouble 
and upset Mrs G had experienced.
Represented by a claims management company (CMC), Mrs G rejected the offer.  One  of 
our investigators reviewed everything  and considered Shawbrooks  offer to be fair and 
reasonable.  In  summary, he said that the calculation Shawbrook  had carried out seemed 
correct and as there was no loss, the offer of compensation was more than fair.
The CMC responded  disagreeing  with the investigators opinion.  It queried the Shawbrooks 
calculation and asked  why the benefits  over 15-years had been used, when its more 
common to use a shorter period. It also disputed the amount of financial benefit  Shawbrook 
had estimated Mrs G would receive annually.  The CMC also re-iterated  Mrs G had said My 
Planet had told Mrs G the system would pay for itself in 6-7 years.
The investigator asked  some further  questions of Mrs G and responded to the CMCs 
queries. He said that solar panels  are a long-term  investment, and its appropriate  for 
Shawbrook to use the 15-year loan term to calculate  the benefits Mrs G would receive  and 
so wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive been  asked to review everything afresh and make a 
decision on Mrs Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN66532032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and for broadly  the same reasons.
Under s.75 there must  be an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier relationship between  the 
parties.  From the evidence available Im satisfied such  a relationship  exists  in this case, but 
note that Shawbrook has accepted responsibility  for Mrs Gs claim in any event and so wont 
expand further  on this point.
Mrs G says she was told the benefits  shed receive from the solar panel system would cover  
its cost.  I understand  it was a common inducement in My Planets sales process to explain 
that the system  benefits would make  it self-funding.  This makes sense and I think its 
reasonable to accept  thats a large part of the reason why Mrs G would have entered into the 
agreement to purchase the solar panels  at all.
Im aware Mrs G says she was told the benefits would cover the cost of the system within 6-
7 years.   Ive considered this point  and appreciate its what  Mrs G recollects,  but Ive seen  
nothing from the documented evidence to support that as being the case. I note Mrs G says 
she took the loan over a 15-year term at the recommendation of the sales  representative.  
This suggests to me that it was intended for the system to pay for itself over that period,  and 
so it is reasonable  for Shawbrook to use that term in its calculation.
The CMC has said that its more usual for the benefits to be calculated  over 10-years when 
making a self-funding calculation. Its important to explain that whilst our Service aims to be 
consistent in its approach  to complaints, our rules require us to deal with each individual 
complaint on its own facts  and so I must  decide  what I think to be fair and reasonable on 
that basis.
I understand the CMC has also queried the level of financial  benefit  the system  is likely to 
provide Mrs G  as estimated in Shawbrooks self-funding calculation.  But the benefits are 
based upon the past actual performance of the system and the recommendations of an 
industry expert  which I consider a reasonable approach to have taken.   Those benefits 
were calculated as being  estimated at £12,300.20 over the 15-year term that the loan was 
taken out for.
Im aware that in this case,  Mrs G repaid the loan in full at an early stage, and so the total 
sum she paid for the system amounted  to £10,730.90 including  interest.   Thats considerably  
less than the benefit shes likely to receive, and so I cant  reasonably  say theres  a loss.  In  
view of that, I consider  the offer made  by Shawbrook to Mrs G of £2,000 is a fair level of 
compensation.
I realise this matter has caused Mrs G considerable concern, and Im aware  Shawbrook  has 
offered an additional payment of £200 to reflect that trouble and upset. Given  that it didnt 
resolve issues for Mrs G as quickly as it could  have, Im satisfied this sum is in line with what 
I would have recommended.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint against Shawbrook  Bank Ltd.
Ref: DRN66532033I consider the offer of compensation  Shawbrook has made  to Mrs G is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, and so Ill leave it to her to decide whether to accept  the offer or not.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6653203