K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA). 
background
Mr Ss door was damaged by criminal activity and he claimed under his policy. Since then 
there has been considerable discussion about the cost of the replacement door, which led to 
Mr S complaining to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but didnt find in Mr Ss favour. They  felt that 
RSAs final offer, which included waiving a £250 excess as compensation, was enough. Mr 
S wasnt persuaded so I have been asked to review the case  and come to a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either, Ill explain why. 
Mr Ss claim is for his damaged door and his policy allows RSA to repair  or replace it. The 
main point of contention seems to be that Mr S thinks  some elements of the door need 
replacing and RSA think the same elements can be repaired. 
I have noted the telephone calls made,  the quotes given, and the photographs  provided, but 
none of this convinces me that RSA are wrong  to the extent necessary to find against them.  I 
note the difference in opinion and cost between the various door options, but this is 
somewhat off point.  The real issue is whether  RSAs  contractor could put the door back in a 
similar state to that it was in before the incident,  and I havent  seen  enough proof that it 
couldnt. 
I note in the papers some  discussion over Mr Ss quotes showing an improved door and 
frame, which  the policy  doesnt allow for. But again what  I would need  to find in his favour is 
clear proof that RSAs  contractor couldnt  have  replaced the door to the same standard it 
was before the damage for the price  they quoted. I havent got that proof  and allowing for the 
final offer made and £250 waived excess I think RSA have done enough. 
my final decision
I make  no award against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6865673