K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1999. Mr R says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Capital One had to make  it clear to Mr R that he had a choice  about  it. 
But Mr R says it wasnt made  clear  the policy was optional.
Capital One has sent us a copy of Mr Rs application form for the credit card. This included a 
section on PPI, with yes  and no boxes to be ticked to show  whether he wanted to take it 
out. And the yes  box has been  ticked.
If Mr R didnt want the PPI, I think he could have left the PPI section blank, or ticked the no 
box. So I think Capital  One did make it clear  to him that he had a choice about the PPI. And 
that Mr R chose to take it, knowing he didnt have  to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Capital One gave  Mr R any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommend it to him. This means Capital One didnt have to check  if 
the PPI was right for Mr R. But it did have to make  sure he got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  
couldve paid out for longer than Mr Rs told us he would have been entitled to full sick pay. 
And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on any savings  he had to make  his repayments 
if he wasnt earning. So I think  the PPI would have  been useful to him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr R off taking it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN60690782My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6069078