K821x#15complaint
Mr F complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Evergreen 
Finance London  Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk. To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly 
to MoneyBoat.
Mr F says MoneyBoat lent to him irresponsibly because proper checks  about  his financial 
situation werent carried out and he already had quite  a few other short-term loans at the 
time. He says all this went on to cause  him financial problems.
background
We now know that Mr F took out 3 instalment loans from MoneyBoat between May 2017 and 
August 2017.  Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Fs borrowing with MoneyBoat, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
from the point of loan number  2 onwards. MoneyBoat initially made an offer to settle  the 
complaint but this wasnt agreed to. The complaint has therefore  come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Fs 
complaint.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to ensure that Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks ought to have taken into 
account a range of different factors, such as the amount  being  lent, the total repayment 
amount and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN67348792There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So MoneyBoat  was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay the loans,  not just whether the repayments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr F 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
MoneyBoat told us it carried out certain  checks before agreeing to lend to Mr F, including  
assessing his income,  expenditure  and creditworthiness.  It says that all this information  
showed that he would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing to.  
Ive looked carefully  at all this and also applied what Ive said above,  about the length of the 
lending relationship, to the circumstances of loan 1. And I dont think its clear enough at this 
particular point that what MoneyBoat would have would have seen, from its checks, 
suggested that loan was either unaffordable for him or that the information on the checks  it 
carried out substantially  undermined the outgoings Mr F had himself  declared. 
I accept that Mr F may have already been  otherwise indebted  at this point. However, theres  
no clear record of the type or depth  of financial checks that were  carried out at that time. So I 
dont agree that MoneyBoat knew its lending was unsustainable for Mr F for loan number 1. I 
therefore dont  uphold this part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan 2 onwards, the situation  was different. He applied  for 
this loan directly after repaying loan 1 and the amount  he borrowed increased quite a bit. 
Theres also evidence Mr F had found the loan 1 payments challenging. We also asked  to 
see the credit checks that were carried out and this time by MoneyBoat and I think  theres 
good evidence  to say that it would have been evident from these checks that Mr F was 
having difficulties  managing his money. I think MoneyBoat would have seen other  loans that 
had been defaulted on with other providers and there were three other short-term loans 
outstanding. I think it was obvious  he was becoming  reliant on high-interest, short-term 
lending.
 
Our experience of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty  managing 
their money are less likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan.  I think any reasonable 
assessment of Mr Fs financial situation at the point  of loan 2 would have shown  he was at 
risk of not being  able to manage  any more of these types of loan and I think MoneyBoat 
would have been easily to able to see this emerging pattern as a risk.
Theres no evidence that MoneyBoat altered its stance on loan 3. Again, this followed 
immediately after loan 2 and once again it increased in value. Its clear  Mr F wasnt  making  
any in-roads in to reducing his indebtedness, so the same can therefore be said for loan 3. 
Mr F was having trouble  managing his money and the information  MoneyBoat  had ought  to 
have prevented it from lending to him. 
I think both loans 2 and 3 were  irresponsible and Im upholding this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN67348793putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr F, MoneyBoat should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3 and treat any payments 
Mr F made  towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Fs loan 3 account as Ive directed results in him effectively  having  
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then MoneyBoat  should  refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Fs loan 3 account leaves  an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
MoneyBoat can use the total refund for loan 2 to offset this. And if there  is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would  remind  it that it should  take a sympathetic 
view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F for the 
remaining capital
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Fs credit file in relation to loans 2 
and 3
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr F a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Fs complaint and I direct  Evergreen  Finance  London Limited to put things right 
for Mr F as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Instalments Amount Monthly 
Repayment
1 10/05/2017 16/06/2017 2 £200.00 £114
2 16/06/2017 16/08/2017 6 £350.00 £108
3 17/08/2017 Outstanding 6 £400.00 £124
Ref: DRN6734879