K822xcomplaint
Mrs J is unhappy with a car she got financed through  Black  Horse Limited. She says the car 
has had various problems and she wants to reject  it.
background 
Mrs J acquired  a nearly new car from a dealer in January 2017 - to use in her business as a 
driving instructor. The car cost £14,000  and she paid a £500 deposit.  The rest of the funds 
were financed through a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse.  
Shortly after getting the car Mrs J says she started  to have problems with it. Over the next 
few months Mrs J says she had a variety  of issues with the car and it was returned to the 
dealer on multiple  occasions. She also says several issues  were  reported multiple times. Ive 
summarised what she says was wrong with the car:
February 2017  multimedia  system  and electrical issues
May 2017  multimedia system  going blank and other issues
August 2017   brake light, indicators not working, multimedia system  going blank, 
automatic gearbox slow changing gears  and car rolling back  on hills
November 2017  automatic gearbox slow changing gears,  gearbox  wont move  up 
gears, climate control issue
February 2018  Dashboard warning lights all lit up and car wouldnt start  had to be 
recovered
March 2018   Dashboard warning lights all lit up, car wouldnt start or open  doors
Mrs J says that when the car was with the dealer for the last time in March 2018,  she told 
them she didnt want it anymore and didnt authorise  any further repairs. The car has been  
kept at the dealer since.
Mrs J complained to Black Horse. It issued final responses in May 2018  and October  2018  
and said it wasnt upholding the complaint. It said there was no evidence faults were present 
or developing at the point of sale, so it thought the car was of satisfactory  quality.
Mrs J was unhappy with this and asked us to look into the complaint.
Black Horse  sent through  some information  from the dealer. This confirmed the car had 
been in for repairs  several times, although some of the issues differ from what  Mrs J told us. 
Ive summarised the information from the job sheets  and other notes below:
May 2017  windscreen wipers not working  engine  turned off and on - no fault 
found
August 2017  - bonnet  pin issue  repaired.  Emissions update
November 2017  climate control  not working  no fault found. Anti-vibration fitted in 
glovebox
February 2018  tyre light on  low pressure. Key card battery low  replace battery. 
ABS light on. Stored  fault code for brake, oil, clutch,  fluid levels   all tested okay.  
Carried out check and report  on ABS warning light. Required two new front wheel 
bearings
March 2018   breakdown. Battery  drain, multiple points on computer. Replaced 
gearbox sensors one and two  car repaired
Ref: DRN65461042The dealer  also provided some  further  evidence directly. This showed  the following:
October 2017  replaced front brake  pads  and disks. Annual service
Black Horse  says all of these repairs were carried out under warranty and a courtesy car 
was provided to Mrs J when her car was in the garage. It says the car has been fully 
functional since April 2018.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said he hadnt seen enough to make  him 
think any of the faults were present  or developing at the point of sale. So, he said he thought 
the car was of satisfactory  quality  when Mrs J got it. Mrs J disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I sent Mrs J and Black Horse a provisional  decision on 1 October 2019. This explained  that I 
intended to reach a different outcome to the investigator and uphold the complaint. Ive put 
my findings  from this decision below:
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant legislation.  This 
says that when Mrs J got the car, the supplier (Black  Horse) had a responsibility to make  
sure it was of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would 
expect  taking  into account things like the cars  age, price, mileage, description and other 
relevant factors. 
So, what  I need to do in this case is consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality. Ill 
bear in mind  that this was a nearly new car, so I think a reasonable person wouldve 
expected to have trouble free motoring for some time.
Mrs J has given a lot of testimony about the issue with the multimedia system  and says this 
is a major fault with the car. Shes  said shes been  told the problems are caused by her 
phones compatibility with the system. Ive checked on the car manufacturers website and it 
confirms the phone Mrs J had may not be suitable  for use with the system. Ive also thought  
about the fact that there arent any notes on the job sheets  from the dealers to say a fault 
was found with this system. I think its possible if Mrs J was using a phone  which  wasnt  
compatible with the system, this couldve caused some  problems.  Taking everything into 
account, I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely there was a fault with the 
multimedia system.
Ive considered the recall letter that Mrs J sent about the system. But, the issues it says 
needed to be fixed via an update are different to those that Mrs J experienced. So this 
doesnt change  my opinion.
I think the other main  issues that I have relevant information from the dealer  about are the 
wheel bearings  and gearbox  sensors. Its recorded that these both needed  replacing.
Black Horse  - and our investigator - said there  isnt any evidence these faults were present 
or developing at the point of sale. But, I dont think they properly considered  durability when 
making their assessments. Durability of goods  should be considered when determining if 
they are of satisfactory quality. So, I need to think about this, taking into account the fact that 
the car Mrs J got was nearly new.
The wheel bearings needed replacing  in the car just over a year after Mrs J got it. It had 
covered around  23,490 miles at this point. Im satisfied a reasonable person wouldve 
Ref: DRN65461043expected wheel bearings to last significantly longer and cover more mileage than this, 
assuming there were  no accidents or adverse conditions   which  I havent  seen any 
evidence of. It follows that I dont think they were suitably durable.  
The gearbox sensors were replaced when Mrs J had the car for about 15 months. And at 
this point the car had covered around  25,000 miles. But, I think  its likely this issue  was 
affecting the car earlier. I say this as Mrs J says she started having issues  with the gearbox 
not acting as it should in August  2017  around  seven months after getting the car. And she 
says it was inspected  by the garage  in November 2017. Its been confirmed the car was with 
the dealer at this point - although the gearbox isnt mentioned in the evidence  available from 
the time.  
Ive considered what Mrs J has said about  this. Shes  given some  detailed testimony about 
what she recalls from the time and specific information about how the automatic  gearbox 
was behaving.  She says the car wouldnt change up gears and had issues  pulling away from 
stationary. Ive also taken  into account  that Mrs J is a professional driving instructor  so I 
think its likely she would  know how an automatic gearbox should react in certain 
circumstances. I find Mrs Js testimony  persuasive, so I think  its likely she was having the 
issues with the car that she describes. And, Im satisfied  its most likely this was due to a 
fault with the gearbox and/or sensors.
In October  2017, which is around when Mrs J first mentions  this issue, the mileage of the car 
was just over 15,000.  So I think  its likely  these issues  started at a much lower mileage than 
25,000. Thinking about this, Im satisfied a reasonable person wouldve  expected  a gearbox 
to run problem free in a nearly  new car for significantly more time than it did.
When considering  satisfactory quality,  Ive also thought about the other smaller issues  the 
car had, such as the windscreen wipers stopping  working and some  anti-vibration material 
that needed fitting. I accept that in isolation,  these faults might not mean the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. But, I have to consider the overall picture here  including  the fact that I 
dont think the gearbox  and wheel bearings  were  durable. Having thought  about  everything,  I 
think its quite clear  that this car wasnt of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied to Mrs J.
I now need to consider  what  would be fair and reasonable to put things right. The wheel 
bearings were replaced and other  issues fixed - and it appears Mrs J authorised these  
repairs. But, Mrs J says she didnt authorise  the final repair  that was completed in April 2018  
and said she told the dealer at the time that she didnt want to keep  the car. 
I asked the dealer to provide information  and comments about this. It drew  my attention  to 
the job card from the time that Mrs J signed. Ive considered what this shows. At the bottom 
of the card there  is a section that says:
Supplementary or additional work (Delete  as appropriate)
*I wish you to proceed without further authority *Await my telephone/written  authority
Mrs J has signed below  this. But, neither  of the options has been deleted. So its not clear  
whether Mrs J was signing to agree to the work,  or signing to tell the dealer to await her 
authority. There is also a space for the date next to the signature which isnt filled in. So, I 
also dont know when  Mrs J signed  this. Its possible Mrs J didnt sign this before the repairs  
took place.
Ref: DRN65461044Along with the job card, Ive thought  about  what Mrs J said about this. And Ive considered  
her actions after the repairs were completed. She didnt go to pick the car up and hasnt 
used it since. But, as far as Im aware,  she has kept paying for it. I find what  Mrs J has said 
plausible about  this. Thinking about  everything  Ive seen, Im satisfied its most likely Mrs J 
didnt authorise  the final repair and told the dealer she no longer wanted  the car.
I now need to consider  what  would be reasonable to put things right. Ive thought about the 
general issues here and what happened with the car. Various repairs  have been completed 
on the car, which seems  reasonable  given  it appears Mrs J authorised these.  But, given I 
think Mrs J told the dealer she no longer wanted the car before the final repair, I dont  think it 
was reasonable  to then repair it and expect Mrs J to take it back.  I think  the fairest  thing, 
taking into account  all of the circumstances of the complaint, wouldve been to have allowed 
Mrs J to reject the vehicle at this point.
Given Mrs J hasnt had use of the car since the final repair, I think its reasonable that she 
gets the repayments shes  made to the finance  refunded since  this point.
Im also satisfied that Mrs J has suffered distress and inconvenience  because of what  went  
wrong. I say this as shes had to take the car back to the dealer multiple times. And I think  it 
mustve been very stressful  for issues to keep coming up with the car. Ive also considered  
that Mrs J has had impaired usage of the car. Given the slightly  conflicting versions of events 
between when Mrs J says things  went wrong  and the reports  from the dealer, its quite hard 
to work out timings  of when this happened.  So, I rather than a percentage of Mrs Js 
repayments, I think its reasonable  to pay Mrs J a general figure for this. I think Black Horse 
should pay her £500  to reflect the distress and inconvenience  as well as for the impaired 
usage of the car.
I gave both Black Horse and Mrs J two weeks to come  back with any further comments  or 
information. Neither Black Horse  nor Mrs J sent me any further evidence or testimony.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld.  This is for the same  reasons as in my provisional  decision  and explained 
above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Black  Horse Limited to put things 
right by doing the following:
Ref: DRN65461045Collect the car at no cost to Mrs J.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Refund the deposit of £500*
Refund any repayment towards the finance since 23 March 2018*
Pay Mrs J £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused and for impaired usage
Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mrs Js credit file
*These payments should have 8% simple interest  added from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Black Horse  to take off tax from this 
interest. Black Horse  must give Mrs J a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6546104