K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Yorkshire Building Society  (trading as Chelsea Building Society) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001. 
Chelsea cant confirm how the policy was sold, but Mr R says he took it out during a 
meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Chelsea no longer  has any of the documents Mr R signed when he took out the 
mortgage and PPI. I dont think thats  surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago 
that was. Mr R says Chelseas  salesperson  told him to tick a box on the application form 
to confirm he wanted PPI. He says he was told this was needed in order  for the 
mortgage to be approved. 
I cant know what Chelseas salesperson said to Mr R about the PPI. But based on what  
we know about  the way Chelsea sold PPI on mortgages at the time, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr R was told that he had a choice about  taking the PPI. And I cant 
fairly conclude, without stronger evidence, that he was told that he needed to take PPI to 
have the mortgage  approved.  On balance, I think its more likely that Mr R decided to 
take out the PPI, knowing  that he didnt  have to  although  I can understand why he may 
no longer  remember  this, so many  years after the event.
Chelsea didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr R so it didnt  have  to check  if it was suitable for 
him. It was for Mr R to decide whether or not to take the cover,  knowing what  other 
means hed have  had of making  his mortgage payments if he was unable to work. But 
Chelsea still had a duty to give Mr R information that was clear and fair, so that he could 
make an informed decision about whether or not to take out the PPI.
Its possible  the information Chelsea  gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have  been.  But I think he chose to take out the PPI, so it looks as if he wanted 
the cover at the time,  even  if hes understandably forgotten this now.  And from what hes 
told us about his circumstances  at the time, its unlikely  hed have been  affected by the 
main things the policy didnt cover  (for example,  existing medical  conditions  or unusual 
employment situations). 
Ref: DRN68258012Ive also borne in mind that Mr Rs told us he cant remember how much  sick pay hed 
have been entitled  to from his employer at the time,  and he didnt have any other means  
he could  have used to make his monthly mortgage repayments if hed been  off sick, or if 
hed lost his job. So it looks  as if the policy could  have  provided valuable protection for 
Mr Rs monthly mortgage  repayments if something went  wrong.  And I think  this would 
have been important  to him, as the mortgage was a significant financial commitment, 
secured on his property.
It may be that Chelsea  could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
the policy was competitively  priced,  and Ive seen  nothing to make  me think that Mr R 
couldnt afford it. So I think that even if Chelsea had provided better  information  about 
the cost of the policy, Mr R would  still have bought it.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R. I appreciate that its frustrating that so little documentation  
remains from the time when he took the mortgage  out. But based on everything that Ive 
seen, I cant fairly conclude, on balance, that the policy was mis-sold to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6825801