K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Canada  Square Operations Limited  (at the time Egg) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a credit card. He applied  for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  over the internet.  
At the time,  Mr M was employed in an administrative role. He has told us he was not entitled 
to any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying his credit card should he be 
unable to work. But its likely Mr M would have been entitled to statutory sick pay at least.  
Mr M has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ms credit  card balance in the event 
of a successful claim. The policy also provided  life cover and serious illness  cover. At the 
time, it cost 74p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium would continue  
to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  interest. 
Canada Square  has sent us a screenshot to show that the credit  card account closed in 
September 2004.
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
Canada Square  failed to meet the sales  standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;  
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Canada  Square 
should have told Mr M about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Canada  Square should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN69460452Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Canada Square,  selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN69460453The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Canada Square at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these  codes 
into account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of Mr Ms case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Canada Square  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Canada Square gave advice, whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Canada Square  gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Canada Square,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
Ref: DRN69460454did Mr M know he had a choice?
Canada Square  had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  I think  Canada  Square 
made Mr M aware  that he had a choice  about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it  
although I can understand why he might not remember  this now. The online credit  card 
application its likely Mr M wouldve seen had a section about  PPI. This gave Mr M the choice 
to say yes or no to the PPI. For the PPI to have been added,  its likely Mr M clicked yes.  
And the internal screen shots provided by Canada Square show  the application data and 
indicate that PPI was selected at this time.  
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  than not that Mr M knew the policy 
was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.  
did Canada  Square provide advice?
Both Canada Square  and Mr M agree  that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  Canada Square didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr M. Instead, it 
had to give him sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable  Mr M to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
The sale took place  over the internet. Canada Square  has provided us with a sample of the 
online application screen it says Mr M wouldve seen. Canada  Square has also provided us 
with a set of the policy terms  and conditions it says wouldve  been  sent to Mr M after the 
sale. I accept on a balance of probabilities  this document applied to policies like Mr Ms.
 
Looking at the information provided to Mr M on the online application form, I dont think  
Canada Square  gave Mr M the information he fairly and reasonably  needed to make  an 
informed decision about whether or not to take out the policy.  
I can see from the online application screen  shot that the PPI section contained a link to the 
policy summary, which could be clicked on. But Canada Square says that this was an option,  
so it seems that Mr M would  not have had to click on this
The sample online application form described  the PPI policy as providing  cover against 
accident, sickness and unemployment  just above  where Mr M would have  had to select 
PPI. It also informed Mr M that the policy cost 74p per £100 of his monthly  outstanding  
balance.
The information provided would have given Mr M a broad sense of what  the policy covered. 
But it was Canada Squares responsibility to draw to Mr Ms attention the important 
information  i.e. the key information  about  the nature  of the cover and any significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Canada Square did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr M, including the need  to maintain premiums during  a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Canada  Square 
Ref: DRN69460455adequately drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Canada  Square gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him.  
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Canada Square ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Canada Squares shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extend  did 
Mr M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Canada  Square didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr M. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Canada Square done  things  properly. 
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr M had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
Ref: DRN69460456this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr M thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr M ought  reasonably to have known he would  have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance   this 
was set out on the online application form. But, I accept that Canada Square didnt make  
clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mr M didnt know  some  things,  the ultimate 
position in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what he would  reasonably 
have thought from the information he based  his decision  to take out the policy on and found 
acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions which were diagnosed, 
significant and substantive symptoms  were experienced, or for which  treatment 
and/or advice had been suggested by a registered medical practitioner during the 12 
month period  prior to the start date of the policy which reoccur within  24 months  after 
the start date of the policy. It also excluded claims for a chronic or continuing disease 
that the insured was aware  of at the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, or other  work which his experience, education or training  would  allow 
him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking  out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr M didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while 
these limitations might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances 
to Mr M from taking  out the policy, Mr M, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons 
to take it out.
Ref: DRN69460457If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
other work that, in the insurers  opinion,  his experience, education  or training would allow  
him to do, it might have played into his thinking about what  he would have done. And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr M was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr M would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and he had limited other means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and redundancy. And in 
those circumstances  I consider it more  likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy 
in any event.  
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr M would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Canada Square  should  pay Mr M compensation, as that would 
Ref: DRN69460458put him in a better position than he would have been in if everything  had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  Canada Square  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Canada Squares statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Canada Square  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt 
say in the information it provided  but because the overall information Canada  Square gave 
Mr M, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2003  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Canada Square negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6946045