K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Ocaso  SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros. It provides the 
buildings policy for the block  of flats where he lives.  Mr S is the leaseholder for his flat and 
there was a leak from the flat above.  Ocaso settled Mr Ss claim for damage but he felt the 
amount was insufficient. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt moved out of the flat or paid a 
disturbance allowance for remaining there.
background
There had been  a leak from the flat above Mr Ss in 2017. This affected Mr Ss kitchen.  A 
report to the council at the time referred  to the leaking water being seen in the area of the 
boiler but also around the extractor  and cooker.  Mr S said the council fixed  the leak quickly 
so no damage was caused.
In May 2018  Mr S noted water in the bedroom  and bathroom. He called Ocaso in early 
June. He mentioned  the leak from 2017  and was told any claim for damage in the kitchen 
from that leak would be declined as the policy requires  any claim to be made within  90 days  
of damage being  found. Ocaso said it would accept  a claim  for the bedroom  and bathroom.
Ocaso initially hoped to dry the property through the bedroom wall adjoining the bathroom  
this was to reduce the required strip-out works. But on review Ocaso accepted  the 
bathroom tiles would  need to be stripped.  However,  it was noted that the leak from upstairs 
hadnt been stopped.  In August 2018 a further leak was also found  to be occurring from 
upstairs. Plans to dry the property were put on hold whilst the council stopped  the leak.
Mr S, in August 2018, said the leak had come through in the kitchen again  but in a 
different area to the 2017  leak.  Ocaso  sent an operative and it felt there were signs of water 
damage in the kitchen   but Ocaso pointed out it hadnt been  made  aware of the historic  
leak in that room. Ocaso reviewed the data it had regarding  the previous leak and current  
photos of the kitchen   it didnt think there were signs of any new damage,  and it felt that 
damage to the wall units was likely the result  of general wear  and tear.
It isnt clear when the bathroom tiles were stripped. But photos show the contractor stood 
on the edge of the jacuzzi  bath to do this, knocking  the tiles off the wall and into the bath.
Although a sheet  had been placed  in the bath for protection. Mr S said Ocaso had damaged  
the bath beyond repair; it was chipped and cracked, and metal around the bottom of the 
bath had been damaged,  meaning the bath was dangerous to use. He said the leak had 
damaged the motor  for the bath too. He asked Ocaso to cover the cost of replacing  the 
bath.
The property was found to be dry on 3 October  2018.
Ocaso said that as Mr S felt repairs were needed in the kitchen, that it didnt accept it was 
responsible for, it would settle the claim in cash. It said it would pay £8,950 for repairing the 
bedroom and bathroom, plus £300 to allow Mr S to repair any chips and cracks to the bath. 
It said the policy only required  it to replace  damaged areas of laminate  flooring. In response 
to a request  Mr S had made regarding alternative accommodation and an allowance  for 
costs incurred due to living in the damaged  property,  Ocaso  said the property had never 
been uninhabitable. Mr S complained to us.
Our investigator made  a number of findings, across a number of pieces of correspondence.  
Ref: DRN66036612In short  she said Ocaso had no liability for damage in the kitchen, it should pay a further 
£150 regarding  the bath damage, it should pay a disturbance allowance for 28 days  of extra 
costs incurred between  August  and September 2018 and that Ocaso should pay £500  for 
upset caused  to Mr S because it didnt place him and his family into alternative 
accommodation. She also said it should pay for the whole of the bedroom flooring  to be 
replaced, not just the damaged area,  if its settlement hadnt  allowed for that already.
Ocaso said it agreed with her findings.  Mr S said he did not. He said there was only one 
bath in the home and they hadnt  been able to use this from May to December  2018,  
instead having to pay to use the showers  at the local leisure centre, and/or drive to a family 
members house. The bedroom also hadnt been  usable until the property had been dried. 
Mr S made several other points in support  of his contention that Ocaso should  pay for 
damage in the kitchen  and to fully replace the bath. The complaint was passed to me for a 
decision to be made.
My view on the complaint  was different to that reached by the investigator.  I issued  a 
provisional decision to explain  what I thought  Ocaso  had done  wrong  and needed to do to 
put things right. Both parties have now responded and my findings, which  include those 
issued provisionally,  are set out below.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I noted provisionally that the claim issues in questions were:
Laminate  flooring;
Kitchen;
Bath;
Alternative  accommodation/disturbance allowance;
I went on to consider each issue: explaining  my view on each in turn. Ive re-produced my 
provisional findings for each below, and, in respect  of each, Ive considered what  the parties 
have said in reply  and set out what my final finding is.
laminate flooring 
I said provisionally: Ocaso  hasnt  been  clear as to its settlement for this. It accepts the 
flooring in the bedroom is damaged and has factored reinstatement  of it into its settlement 
figure. But Ocaso has also said the policy allows it to only make  settlement for the damaged  
area  that it can exclude any costs for undamaged  matching parts.  At the time Mr S was 
asking for the whole of the flooring in the flat to be replaced, so one might think Ocaso  was 
only referring to the policy wording  to justify only reinstating the bedroom flooring. However, 
Mr S said Ocaso has only allowed for repairing 1.5 metres of flooring in the bedroom  not 
the whole  bedroom floor. Ocaso needs  to review  its settlement and make an additional 
payment to Mr S to allow  for all of the bedroom flooring to be replaced. If it thinks it has 
done this already, it will need to provide proof  in this respect.
In reply Ocaso said it had factored the cost of replacement flooring into its settlement, and 
this was evidenced by its schedule of works  which it attached to its reply.  Mr S said Ocaso 
only stripped out a 1.5 square meter area of damaged laminate and had told him this was 
Ref: DRN66036613the only area it would  replace.
The schedule details  the total cost of work  to be £10,803.62 (excluding VAT). It does 
include laminate  flooring.  But only 6.68 square metres,  whilst it also states that the floor 
area totals 13.68 square  metres. And I also know from the other  papers Ocaso submitted to 
us that the scope and cost of this schedule was later reduced to remove  any cost for 
replacing undamaged  but matching items.  The final figure Ocaso paid against the original 
scope was £8,950, but no detail has been shown  about what was removed or amended to 
generate the final figure. Given what Mr S has said and the reports  I have  seen from 
Ocaso, I think its more likely  than not that Ocasos final settlement figure only allowed a 
cost for replacing the 1.5 square metre  area of laminate Mr S said it removed. I think its 
unlikely Mr S could reasonably replace  just that area of damage. I remain of the view that 
Ocaso hasnt  properly settled with Mr S for replacing the laminate flooring in the bedroom 
and it will have to reconsider its settlement.
kitchen 
I said provisionally: Ocasos contractor inspected the damage and felt it was related to a 
new leak. Whilst it didnt have any history  of leaks in the kitchen, Id have thought  it would 
have identified any obvious signs of long-standing water damage   such as staining.
Ive also seen that when Mr S carried out some repairs  in December 2018, and the kitchen 
ceiling covering was removed, the ceiling boarding under this was wet.
There was clearly water present in the kitchen in 2017, and given the detail that existed 
about this, I cant fairly blame Ocaso for being concerned that the water  found in 2018 was 
only damaging  the same  area as previously  affected. But I havent seen any evidence that 
repair in that area of the kitchen was needed  in 2017, or that more repair was necessary in 
2018 as a result of previous damage not having been repaired.
That said,  Im not persuaded the kitchen  wall units were damaged by leaking water. Ocaso 
says they are showing signs of wear  and tear. From the pictures  I think  thats a fair 
assessment. Mr S says the extractor  was also damaged by water.  I can see water droplets  
on it, but I havent seen any report which says it was damaged  beyond  repair. So I dont 
think Ocaso is liable for the wall units  or the extractor.
Whilst Mr S said he wants Ocaso to be liable for damage in the kitchen, I havent  seen,  
beyond the wet ceiling boards, wall units and extractor, what other damage is said to have 
occurred. Nor have I seen  what repairs Mr S carried out, or what  they cost.  Taking  
everything into account Im going to require Ocaso to consider  a settlement for Mr S for 
reinstating his kitchen, subject to proof  from him of what  repairs he did and what that cost,  
and excluding any costs  for replacing  wall units and the extractor. Settlement will have to be 
based on Mr Ss costs, not what it might have cost Ocaso  to do this work.
Im not going  to require Ocaso to pay interest  on these costs. Ocaso might have reviewed 
its position if it had received  detail of these earlier. But also Ocaso, when it initially  declined  
liability for the kitchen,  didnt know  the ceiling boards were  wet, and, as I said,  I think  it was 
reasonable for it to have had concerns about  the 2018 loss, given what  it knew about the 
2017 incident.
Ocaso said Mr S hadnt shown hed had the previous damage repaired, so it still didnt feel 
it should have  to pay anything for the kitchen.  Mr S said water was inside the extractor, not 
Ref: DRN66036614just on it. Mr S said the council environment  officer  said the extractor wasnt  working at all. 
He argued that, at the least, Ocaso should accept a claim for the extractor under the 
accidental damage  section of the policy. He also said hes entitled to claim for damaged  
walls and the kitchen  units as hes shown these were damaged by water. Mr S clarified  that 
the ceiling  was repaired but not replaced during the repair of the bathroom  he expects the 
replacement cost to be £800  £1,200.
I appreciate the response made  by both Mr S and Ocaso. But nothing  either has said has 
changed my view set out provisionally. 
Water being  in the extractor  and the extractor  not working doesnt mean it was most  likely 
damaged beyond repair by the water leak. An item no longer working doesnt automatically 
mean that a claim for accidental damage  on a policy will succeed. If the extractor  is still in-
situ, and Mr S wants it to, then Ocaso  should consider a claim for it under the accidental  
damage section of the policy.  If it isnt still in place and has been disposed of, then I cant  
reasonably require Ocaso to do anything more. 
Ive seen nothing  to make me think the kitchen  units were  suffering from water damage. If 
there was a cost to Mr S for repairing the ceiling Ocaso will have to reimburse  that and if 
that wasnt a permanent repair and/or the ceiling still needs  replacing then Ocaso  will have 
to consider settlement for that as part of the cost to Mr S for reinstating the kitchen, along 
with any other repairs that are outstanding.  
My provisional findings regarding  the kitchen stand.
bath 
I said provisionally: Ocasos contractor should have taken more care to protect the bath 
when taking off the tiles. I dont doubt  the bath was damaged  but neither party seems to 
have gathered any clear  evidence  as to the extent of the damage. Both agree it was 
chipped, it isnt clear if Ocaso agrees it was cracked. I think  it could have been  cracked  by 
the careless actions  of the contractor (which  Ive seen evidence of). It also isnt clear  what 
Ocaso expected the £300  it paid to cover the cost of. Whilst some  chips  might  have  been  
repairable, Im not persuaded cracks would have been.
Mr S said the metal at the bottom  of the bath was damaged too. Whilst I can see how falling  
tiles would cause  chips and possibly cracks to the bath  I cant see how it would cause the 
damage to the metal  which  Mr S has described.
Mr S said the motor was also damaged. He said this was due to the leak as the motor  was 
near the pipe that was leaking.  Whilst the motor may have been near the pipe,  it doesnt  
necessarily follow that it was likely damaged  due to the leak.  Ocaso  said it was told the 
jacuzzi function hadnt been  working for some time. Mr S said that isnt true, it had been in 
use before  the leak. I cant  be sure which is correct  and the motor wasnt tested so I dont 
know what damage it was suffering from. I cant reasonably blame Ocaso for not testing it 
when it believed it hadnt been working  for some time. Mr S didnt provide a report on the 
motor, even though he knew Ocasos position  was that it wasnt damaged by the leak. The 
bath has since been disposed of, so it cant now be tested. All of which means I cant be 
satisfied that the motor  was most  likely damaged by the leak,  or anything else covered by 
the policy. As such I havent seen that a liability exists for Ocaso to replace the motor  under 
the terms of the policy.
Ref: DRN66036615I think its likely the bath minus the motor,  needed  replacing due to the damage Im satisfied 
Ocasos contractor had caused. And Ocaso certainly hasnt satisfied  me that it could have 
been repaired. Our investigator found a bath like this could be replaced  (without  a motor) 
for £450. Mr S said it would cost around £700  for a jacuzzi  bath of this size  but he didnt 
provide evidence of this, or say whether or not this included  the cost of a motor.  Whilst the 
damaged bath has been disposed of, Mr S hasnt  shown  what he paid for a replacement 
bath. This leaves me in a position of knowing Ocaso  failed Mr S, but not knowing  for sure 
what his exact  loss as result of its failure was. Therefore, I have to consider  what I think  is 
fair and reasonable. Im satisfied  that a payment of a further  £150  by Ocaso (making  its 
total settlement  in this respect £450),  is fair and reasonable.
Ocaso said it accepted my findings in this respect.  Mr S said his policy offers  cover for new 
for old, and repairing an item wont make  it like new. He said that if Ocaso had asked him 
for a report  on the motor  before it had been disposed, then hed have provided that. As with 
the extractor, he said Ocaso should  settle this under accidental damage if it didnt accept it 
was damaged by the water leak.
First considering Mr Ss comments regarding accidental damage   as the motor has been 
disposed of Ocaso cant reasonably now consider a claim in this respect for this item. Even  
a claim for accidental damage would reasonably involve  assessment of the cause of 
damage as the cause  might well be excluded from cover. Im not going to require Ocaso to 
consider a claim or make  any settlement for the motor under the cover for accidental  
damage.
Whether the motor was suffering from water damage remains  unclear. Whilst it might  have 
been helpful to Mr S for Ocaso to have advised him to get a report on the motor, Im not 
sure it was really its place to do so.
What the policy entitles Mr S to isnt relevant when considering settlement for any damage  
caused by Ocasos  negligent contractor. In this case Ocaso has to make fair recompense  to 
Mr S for the damage which occurred. Providing a properly assessed settlement for repairs 
would have been a fair offer, in my view.  But Ocasos  settlement for repair had no real 
basis. As such our investigator found the replacement cost for a bath (minus the motor) and 
said Ocaso should increase its settlement to that value. I remain  of the view that settling in 
this way is fair. The replacement cost found  was £450, Ocaso had paid £300, so I said it 
should pay a further £150. I remain of that view.
alternative accommodation and/or disturbance allowance 
I said provisionally: Only if a property  is uninhabitable will an insurer  usually be required to 
provide alternative  accommodation for its occupants. A property is generally considered 
uninhabitable if there are no washing  and cooking  facilities. Often the lack of bathing  
facilities alone wont be sufficient to say the property is uninhabitable  especially if there 
are sinks and other means of washing available.
The property being uninhabitable also has to be linked to the damage  which  has been 
caused  because it is the damage which the insurer is liable for repairing under the policy. 
So if a property is uninhabitable due to an on-going leak which the insurer  isnt responsible  
for fixing, the insurer likely  wont be responsible  for providing alternative accommodation for 
the propertys  occupants.
Disturbance allowance is a little different in that this isnt a benefit derived from the policy. It 
Ref: DRN66036616is an allowance most insurers see fit to pay when damage to a property makes it 
inconvenient to live there and, as a result, causes extra costs to be incurred by the 
occupants.
What happened  and when during this claim isnt clear.  Most recently  Mr S has said that 
dirty water was leaking from upstairs  and into the bath from May 2018 until 
September 2018, by which point the bath had been  damaged by Ocasos contractor and 
was unusable.
The cooker could  also not be used between  August  and September  2018. But Mr S said 
this was because  it was unplugged and moved  due to the risk of the water  leaking in from 
upstairs causing damage to it. Once  the leak was fixed it was moved back and used again.
Having considered everything, bearing in mind what Ive said above  about when it becomes 
necessary for alternative accommodation  to be offered, I dont think  Ocaso  was being unfair 
or unreasonable when it said there  was no cause for it to have offered that here.  I 
appreciate it would have been  uncomfortable  for the family  to continue living in the property 
with the on-going leak from above,  but Im not persuade  Ocaso is liable for that.
I think that once Ocaso began  stripping the bathroom though it should have paid Mr S a 
disturbance allowance. The bathroom couldnt be used  whilst it was being stripped. And it 
was during the act of stripping out the bathroom that damage  was caused to the bath.
Im satisfied the bath was unusable from that point, and as it was unusable due to Ocasos  
failure, a disturbance allowance to cover the extra cost the family have said they had for 
using the leisure  centre and travelling to the homes  of family members to wash, should  
fairly be paid by it. Im minded to say it should pay £5 per person per day from the point 
stripping out began until one month  after it made settlement to Mr S  the latter  to allow  
time for repairs to be completed.
Often when an insurer pays a distribute allowance it is paid at a rate of £10 per adult per 
day. But this is usually to account for extra food costs. Im not persuaded that the cost of 
visiting the local leisure centre and family  members  homes would equate to such  an 
extensive extra cost for Mr S. Im tasked with deciding  what  is fair and reasonable and, in 
this case, I think £5 per adult per day would fairly  account for any extra costs Mr S had over 
and above that he would  always have  incurred if Ocaso hadnt  damaged  his bath.
Ocaso accepted my findings in this respect. 
Regarding alternative  accommodation Mr S said the property was uninhabitable as the 
master bedroom  couldnt be slept in, they had no cooker and no bathing facilities. Mr S said 
hed like to know why I felt Ocaso  had treated them fairly by not offering alternative 
accommodation in circumstances like this. 
Mr S also asked me to explain why, in respect of the disturbance allowance, I had chosen  
to say £5 per adult per day should  be paid rather than £10. He said the maximum amount 
of £10 should be paid to account for the time and inconvenience his daughter had spent 
and experienced corresponding with Ocaso. Mr S said the time period Id allowed was too 
short and I hadnt  accounted for food costs. He said they should really get £40  £60 per 
person per day.
Regarding alternative  accommodation, I explained  provisionally the reason for the house  
Ref: DRN66036617being uninhabitable has to be linked to the damage  the insurer  is responsible  for repairing. 
So the cooker not being in use due to the on-going leak, which Ocaso  wasnt  responsible  
for repairing, cant be taken into account. The bedroom might have been uncomfortable to 
sleep in, but that doesnt make the home  uninhabitable.  I accept the bath couldnt be used 
for a period   but the home still had washing facilities. I remain of the view that Ocaso 
wasnt being unfair or unreasonable when it said there was no cause for it to have  offered  
alternative accommodation during the claim.
I explained provisionally why I felt £5 per person per day for disturbance  allowance  should 
be paid so Im not sure why Mr S is unclear about this. I hadnt asked Mr S to evidence or 
explain his costs for travel or using a leisure  centre  but Mr S hasnt shown me in response  
that his costs were  likely more than £5 per person per day in this respect.  And even if he 
could, the £5 is meant  to cover extra costs incurred, over and above those that would 
always have been  spent but have,  due to the circumstances, effectively been saved. It isnt 
intended to cover any upset or inconvenience.  I remain of the view, particularly as Ive not 
been presented  with any evidence to the contrary, that £5 per adult  per day is fair and 
reasonable to account for extra costs  incurred to travel to the homes of others and use the 
local leisure center to shower.
compensation
I said provisionally: I also have to consider compensation  for distress and inconvenience. 
This claim  did take time  but this was mostly due to further leaks  occurring. Once the leaks  
were stopped, Ocaso dried the property and issued settlement in relatively short order. 
However, its settlement  did fall short in a number of areas. Ocaso also damaged Mr Ss 
property (the bath). I accept it was upsetting for Mr S to see that and the careless work that 
caused it. It also meant the family  had to continuing  going elsewhere for showers which  
was inconvenient. I think £300  compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
here.
Ocaso accepted my findings. Mr S said the amount was insufficient when compared to 
monthly rental figures  for the area. He also mentioned, when responding on the topic of 
disturbance allowance, the time his daughter had spent dealing with Ocaso on his behalf.
I appreciate that Mr S disagrees  with my findings in this respect.  I have considered what  
hes said but his views  havent changed  my mind on this issue.  Particularly Id explain that 
we dont assess compensation awards  based  on what it might have cost the insurer  to have 
housed the family elsewhere. Rather  we assess the upset the insurers  failings caused and 
determine what we think fair and reasonable compensation is taking into account our 
guidance and what weve awarded in similar  cases. In doing that we have  to filter out any 
upset thats been caused by things the insurer isnt responsible for  such  as that caused 
by living  in a property with an on-going leak. I do understand that this whole situation has 
caused distress and inconvenience for Mr S and his family. But I remain of the view that, for 
the part in that which Ocaso  played, £300 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ocaso  SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros  to:
Review  its settlement for the laminate flooring and make an additional payment to Mr S 
to allow for all of the bedroom flooring to be replaced. 
Upon sight of proof  from Mr S as to the repairs hes carried  out and the costs hes 
Ref: DRN66036618incurred, consider settlement for water damage repairs  to the kitchen, in line with the 
remaining policy terms and conditions and my comments above.
Pay a further £150 to Mr S in respect  of the bath (making its total settlement in this 
respect £450).
Make a payment to Mr S in respect  of disturbance  allowance,  equal to £5 per adult per 
day, starting from the date the bathroom  strip-out works began and ending one month 
after the original  claim settlement was paid to Mr S.
Pay Mr S £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6603661