K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account sometime after Mr S took out the 
store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr S says FICL mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. Mr S 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr S says the PPI was added without his knowledge and consent, and he feels strongly that 
he wouldnt  have agreed to the PPI over the phone.  
FICL has provided evidence of its internal  record to show that the PPI was taken out over 
the phone  in 2000  a good number  of years after the store  card account had been set up. 
But unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed there is no call recording for me to 
listen to  so I cant say what exactly was discussed at the time. But as Mr S already had the 
credit in place I think he wouldve known the PPI was an optional extra and not a condition  of 
having the store card.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said about the PPI being added  without his knowledge or 
consent, but Ive not seen any other evidence from the time to support this. And as the sale 
took place so long ago  around 19 years  ago  its difficult to rely on what Mr S says alone 
to conclude something untoward happened.  So without anything  else persuasive to make 
me think otherwise,  I think its unlikely  FICL  wouldve  added  the PPI to Mr Ss account 
without his permission.
So based  on all the evidence Ive seen and without  any stronger evidence to the contrary,  I 
think its more likely  FICL made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt  have  to check if the policy was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if the PPI 
was right for him.
I think its possible the information FICL gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
Ref: DRN62653992been useful for him if something  went  wrong. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Upon a successful  claim the PPI wouldve  paid 15% of Mr Ss outstanding monthly balance 
until the policy ended, Mr S stopped  being unemployed or disabled,  or the outstanding 
balance had been cleared. And even  though  he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay and for longer than his full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So these funds  couldve  been  used for other  expenses. Based on 
everything Ive seen and been told I still think the policy wouldve been useful for Mr S and I 
dont think better information  wouldve put him off taking  it out.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6265399