K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
background
In May 2018  Mr M was supplied with a second hand  car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. The agreement was for 60 months with a monthly instalment of 
£293.37.
The supplying dealership was based a long way from Mr Ms house  and the car was 
supplied as a distance sale.
At the end of May 2018 Mr M complained to BMF that the car was faulty. In particular he 
said that the warning  lights  for stability control and tyre pressure were illuminated on the 
dashboard. 
In June 2018 Mr M contacted BMF again  and complained that the car had been delivered to 
him with bodywork damage.
The supplying dealer asked Mr M to have the car inspected. Mr M took the car to a BMW 
service workshop who found that there was water ingress into the nearside  front headlight 
and a faulty brake light switch. It also found  damage  to the front bumper and following 
diagnostic tests produced fault codes relating to the headlights and brake lights.
Mr M sent the inspection  report to BMF and asked to reject the car. BMF declined  Mr Ms 
request to reject. It said that the 14 day time limit under the distance sale agreement had 
expired and that Mr M had continued to drive the car on a daily basis. BMF said that the 
supplying dealer had offered to collect the car and carry out repairs  to the mechanical faults.  
It didnt accept that the car had been  delivered with bodywork damage but said that the 
supplying dealership was willing to assist  Mr M with after market parts.
Mr M wasnt happy with BMFs response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator asked  BMF to arrange  for an independent inspection  of the car. The 
company which  carried  out the inspection was provided with photographs of the car supplied 
by both Mr M and BMF.
Based on the findings of the independent  inspection our investigator upheld  the complaint.  
He said there was bodywork damage  to the car at the point of supply and recommended that 
BMF should  arrange  for the bodywork damage  to be repaired at no cost to Mr M.
Mr M didnt  agree. He was unhappy that the independent inspection  didnt mention the 
intermittent faults with the car as identified  in the BMW  diagnostic  report.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN68935182Because the car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied  
term that the car is of satisfactory  quality. A car is of satisfactory quality if it meets  the 
standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances including  (amongst other  things)  the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. Under the relevant law the quality  of the car includes its general state  and condition  
and other  things like fitness  for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom  from minor  defects,  
safety and durability.
Mr M and BMF dont appear to disagree about whether the car was of satisfactory quality  at 
the point of supply. The BMW diagnostic report and the independent  inspection  have 
identified faults.  BMF has offered to collect the car at no cost to Mr M and return  it to the 
supplying dealer for repairs to the mechanical  defects identified  in the BMW diagnostic 
report and for repairs to the bodywork  in accordance  with the damage  identified in the 
independent report.
Under the relevant law the supplying dealer has one opportunity to repair any faults which 
have been found to exist at the point of supply. In this case, the independent  inspection  
concluded that the body  work damage  existed at the point  of supply. I havent seen any 
evidence that any repairs have been  attempted to the bodywork yet so I think  its fair to allow  
the supplying  dealer  one opportunity  to repair this.
The BMW  diagnostic report obtained by Mr M identified some mechanical  defects with the 
car. These include water ingress into the front nearside headlight and a faulty brake  light 
switch. There are a number of fault codes identified on the BMW diagnostic report  all of 
which appear to be related to the front nearside  headlight and the brake lights.
Mr M has also taken  some photographs of the dashboard showing error readings  a few days  
after he took delivery of the car. Its not clear whether Mr M is continuing to receive  these 
error readings. The inspection report notes that Mr M mentioned a problem with the right 
rear alloy. The independent inspector has stated that he investigated these complaints  and 
carried out a check but found no issues with the rear alloy and only one fault code was 
identified.
I appreciate that Mr M wants  to reject the car rather than have it repaired. He has said that 
he believes  that the car has been in a front end accident. Ive reviewed all of the available 
information but theres nothing in either the BMW report or the independent report  to suggest 
that this is the case. 
In the circumstances Im unable to recommend rejection. BMF has offered to arrange  for 
repairs to be carried out in relation to the mechanical issues  identified in the BMW  diagnostic  
report.
Because the car was supplied with bodywork damage I think  its reasonable to require BMF  
to arrange for repairs to be carried out to the bodywork as well.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Blue Motor Finance Ltd should arrange  for 
the car to be collected and for the mechanical defects identified in the BMW  diagnostic  
report and the bodywork  damage identified in the independent inspection report  to be 
repaired at no cost to Mr M.  When the repairs have  been completed the car should be 
Ref: DRN68935183returned to Mr M at no cost. If the car is going  to be in the garage  for repairs for more than 5 
calendar days Blue Motor  Finance Ltd must  arrange for a hire car to be made available to 
Mr M for the duration of the repairs at no cost to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6893518