K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
I have now issued 2 provisional decisions on this complaint. In the first provisional decision, I 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. And the most recent provisional decision I 
thought should be upheld.
In my last provisional decision, in summary,  I thought this complaint should be upheld.  
Santander says it would  have recommended the PPI to Mr S  so it needed  to make sure it 
was suitable for him. Mr S has been  consistent throughout his complaint that he had a 
permanent health  insurance (PHI)  policy. And I thought that because  of this, Mr S probably 
didnt have a need for the PPI. So it wasnt clear to me why Santander recommended he 
bought the cover.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say he agreed  with my findings.
Santander responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt agree with the findings and 
made the following main  points:
The reason  for overturning the initial provisional decision  was made on a set of 
assumptions.
Mr S was knowledgeable about insurance  at the time he took out the PPI and this 
would have put him in a more informed  position about his need for the PPI. 
There isnt any evidence to support  what  Mr S says.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I have made the 
decision to uphold this complaint.
My reasons  for upholding this complaint are the same as those that are in my provisional  
findings, which are attached  below.
But Id also like to address the additional  points raised by Santander,  and explain why these  
dont make a difference to the outcome of my most recent provisional findings.
The reason  for overturning the initial provisional decision  was made on a set of assumptions.
Santander has said that I changed  my position  based on assumptions. This is correct. 
However considering  the sale was in 1992  and the lack of contemporaneous evidence any 
decision I make will be based on assumptions. 
Ref: DRN61671042Mr S has been consistent throughout this complaint  that he had a PHI policy. He responded 
to my first provisional decision  with arguments which made his position significantly more 
persuasive and that tipped the balance for my decision
Mr S was knowledgeable about insurance  at the time he took out the PPI and this would 
have put him in a more informed position about  his need for the PPI. 
Mr S has told us he worked in insurance when he took out the cover.  But I dont think this 
means that he ought to have been  more aware of the type of cover Santander sold him. I 
dont think it would be fair for me to assume  that he had a good understanding of PPI  
including the benefit it provided.  And as Santander  were selling and advising Mr S on 
whether the cover was suitable, I think it was their responsibility to ensure that the cover met 
Mr Ss needs. And for the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision,  I dont 
think it likely  did this. 
There isnt any evidence  to support  what  Mr S says.
This point  is correct. I dont have  information  that supports Mr Ss testimony. But there also 
isnt any evidence that shows me what  questions Santander asked Mr S about his other  
means when it sold him the cover. Mr S has given me a testimony that I find plausible and 
persuasive. And so without information  to contradict this, I think it more likely Mr S had a PHI 
policy with the benefits hes stated.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and the above findings,  I am upholding 
this complaint. 
putting things right
Santander should put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
-Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
- Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
-If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  must  give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN61671043my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61671044copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 20 November  2018. A copy of my provisional decision is attached.
In my provisional decision,  I explained that given the length of time that had passed since the sale, it 
was difficult for me to know what happened when  the PPI was sold, as there was very little evidence  
available to me. And much of what I had to rely on was Mr Ss recollections of the sale and what  I 
knew about how Santander  sold policies  around the time. Based on this, I couldnt fairly uphold  the 
complaint.
My provisional  decision  comments  on a PHI (permanent health insurance) policy  Mr S told me he had 
when he took out the PPI. He thought that because of this, he didnt have a need for the PPI. When I 
wrote my provisional decision, Mr S hadnt given  me much information about the policy he said he 
had. And so I couldnt  fairly say he didnt have a need for the PPI. But since I issued my provisional  
decision, Mr S has provided me with more information  for me to consider about  the PHI policy.
Hes told me that:
His sick pay from his employer  would  have paid his full salary  for up to six months.
After this, his PHI policy  would have come into effect.
The PHI policy would have paid out until the earlier of Mr S returning to work, normal 
retirement age or death.
The PHI would have paid two thirds  of his salary.
I let Santander know this information and asked for their comments on this. It responded to say:
PHI is not a like for like insurance policy. 
The PPI would have  paid out in addition  to any employer benefits  so the customer  would not 
have been financially  disadvantaged.
my provisional  findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
And having done so very carefully, I now intend to uphold  this complaint. And Ill explain my reasons 
below.
Santander says its likely it recommended the PPI to Mr S. So it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the cover was suitable for him. In addition to this, it also had to give him enough information 
about the PPI so he could  decide for himself if he wanted  to buy the cover.
Based on the more detailed information Mr S has now given me, I dont think  the PPI was suitable for 
him. 
Ref: DRN61671045Its probably worth  noting  first that I am persuaded Mr S had a PHI policy. He has been consistent on 
this point throughout. He hasnt been able to give me any policy documents  to show  me the terms and 
conditions of the PHI policy, or information to show that he had it. But as Ive already said,  this PPI 
policy was sold a very long time ago. And I wouldnt  expect someone to keep hold of documents  for 
this length of time. Mr S has given me a relatively  detailed account of what  he remembers the PHI 
policy covered him for. So on balance, I think it more  likely  he had a PHI policy  which provided him 
with the benefit Ive already  mentioned above.
Based on my knowledge of PHI policies,  these usually pay out in the event  that someone cant work 
through accident or sickness. They will normally  pay out a maximum percentage of a persons gross 
annual income. And the benefit they provide can sometimes reduce if a person is claiming  a benefit  
from other insurance policies during this time.
To recap,  this PPI policy would have paid Mr Ss monthly mortgage  repayment in the event  that he 
couldnt work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job. It would have paid out for up to two years 
in the event of one or more of these things.
Mr S says the PHI policy he had would  have paid out until the earlier of him returning to work, normal  
retirement age or death.  So based on what Mr S has said,  I think  it likely it would have paid out for 
longer than Mr Ss PPI policy would have lasted. 
Santander has said that Mr S wouldnt have  lost out financially by having  the PPI because  if he were  
to make a successful claim on the PPI policy, it would have paid out on top of his other benefits.  
But I cant be sure of this. The level of benefit paid out under  a PHI policy could often reduce  if a 
person was also claiming on a different insurance  product at the same time  this is because  these  
policies often  only allowed a customer to receive  a maximum income of a percentage of their salary. 
And so, the level of benefit  the PHI policy provided could  have reduced as a result of also having  a 
PPI policy.  And this would mean that Mr S could  have lost out financially   as Mr S might  have been 
paying twice for some  of the cover,  but not getting double  cover due to the reducing PHI benefit. 
Given that the PHI policy would  have  probably  paid out more than the PPI policy  in the event of 
accident or sickness  and for potentially  longer than the PPI would have lasted, I dont think  Mr S 
had a need for the PPI  even if it were to pay out on top of the PHI policy.
And although there was a redundancy benefit under  the PPI not available under the PHI I think the 
work benefits in place  which  he already received meant he didnt have a need for the PPI as he had 
sufficient coverage in this area.
While I agree with Santander that the PHI and the PPI policies arent like for like, I dont think  Mr S 
would have needed a PPI policy when he had a PHI policy  in place. So it isnt clear to me why it 
recommended he buy a PPI policy when he didnt really need one. 
So for the reasons  Ive explained above, I currently think this complaint should  be upheld,  because  I 
dont think that the PPI was suitable for Mr S. 
putting things  right
Santander should put Mr S in the position hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. The policy should  
be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and Santander should:
-Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
- Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN61671046-If Mr S made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  must
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. And Santander UK Plc 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
I now invite  Mr S and Santander to give me any further information they want me to consider before 
I make  my final decision.  This must be provided to us by 3 July 2019.
Ref: DRN6167104