K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) refused  to open a savings account  for 
him because  his identity  couldnt be verified.  He thinks that the bank is racial profiling and 
applied different account open procedures for him.
background
Mr S applied for a savings  account with BOI. It has declined to open an account  and Mr S 
thinks this is because BOI couldnt  verify  his identity  because  he doesnt appear  on any of 
the databases due to his age. He says that BOI should know this and believes it has treated 
his application  differently  from others  and based its decision on his age and race.  Hed like 
substantial compensation for the upset  and humiliation this has caused him.
BOI says that it carried out its usual account  opening procedures.  It then wrote to Mr S to 
say that it wasnt going  to open an account  for him. It said this was because, following its 
account opening checks and analysis of information received from the credit reference and 
fraud prevention databases, it had decided not to do so. 
Mr Ss family member  subsequently provided  a letter from a fraud prevention  agency  to 
show that no adverse  information was held against  the address concerned. The letter  was 
dated after BOI processed the savings account application.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  he didnt think  BOI 
had acted fairly in declining the application  because  of the letter  Mr S had provided. He did 
say that BOI could  decide for itself who it has as customers. He suggested BOI should  pay 
£100 to put things right.
BOI disagreed. It said that it hadnt acted unfairly in declining Mr Ss account  application.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued my provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and BOI on 25 February 2020. I summarise my findings:
I said that banks  and building societies are entitled to decide  for themselves whether to 
do business or continue doing  business with someone if they do not consider  it 
appropriate to do so. This is the legitimate exercise of their commercial  judgement.  But 
they shouldnt  decline to open an account  (or decide to close  an account) without proper 
reason, for instance, because of unfair bias or unlawful  discrimination. And they are 
required to treat both new and existing customers fairly.
I thought BOI had shown that it carried out its normal account opening procedures  when  
it processed Mr Ss application, which included carrying out credit reference  and fraud  
prevention checks. Following these checks and the information  it received,  it decided not 
to open the account.  BOI is entitled to do this so I didnt  think  it acted unfairly.
Mr S thinks that BOI is racially profiling, which is the real reason it declined  to open an 
account for him. I said that I couldnt make a formal determination as to whether 
somebody has been discriminated against  on the grounds of their age or race (or other 
facts that are known  as protected  characteristics)  only a court can do that. But I hadnt 
Ref: DRN68467342seen anything to suggest that BOI had decided not to open the account for an improper 
reason, including unfair bias.
I accepted that Mr Ss family member  had provided a copy  of a letter, which  showed  that 
no adverse information was recorded  against the address.  But this letter was dated  after 
the application was processed. I was satisfied that BOI has shown that it had information 
when it declined to open the account.
I said that Mr S could, if he chooses  to do so, make another  application for an account 
and Id expect  BOI to assess it on its own merits using its normal  account opening 
criteria.
Subject to any further representations from Mr S or BOI, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold  the complaint. I didnt think BOI had done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  And BOI said it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and on the basis that neither party has given me anything  new to consider  I 
see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
BOI declined  Mr Ss account  application  for an improper reason.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6846734