K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains TSB Bank plc will not refund  money which an ATM failed to dispense.
background 
In October  2018, Mrs G made four attempts to withdraw money from three separate  ATMs.  
She says none  of the withdrawals were  successful  yet £250  debited her account.
She realised  this within minutes and so contacted TSB.  The money  was initially  refunded 
into her account but subsequently debited again  when  TSB said its investigations showed 
that the money must  have  dispensed.
When TSB failed to uphold her complaint,  Mrs G came to this service.
Our investigator thought MRs G has not been  treated  fairly  and so she asked TSB to 
reimburse the money and pay Mrs G interest at the statutory rate.
Mrs G agreed  with the investigators findings   but TSB failed to respond so the matter  was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what I have seen, I have  arrived  at the same conclusion as the investigator  and 
very much for the same reasons.
For TSB to hold Mrs G liable for this transaction, we would expect it to show  that the ATM 
balanced on that day, had no reported  problems and the status of the purge box (where  
notes which  are not collected go).
TSB was not the owner of the ATM  which is the subject of this complaint  so it sought  
evidence from the owner.   The owner told TSB that the ATM had balanced and that there 
were no reported issues.   But that wasnt right because there was a surplus  recorded  of 
£170.
I agree  with TSB that this wasnt the amount which Mrs G had complained about  she had 
said £250 had wrongly debited her account.   But what the surplus is evidence of is that not 
all the money being requested that day was dispensed from that ATM.   So, I think on 
balance, I am satisfied that Mrs G didnt  get the money she asked for.
Additionally, TSB was unable to provide a record of the what the purge box did (or did not) 
contain.  In the circumstances, it is possible  that Mrs Gs money  ended  up there.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
TSB Bank plc must pay Mrs G:
Ref: DRN63905972-£250
-Interest at a rate of 8% from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask MRs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6390597