K820x#14complaint
Mr D on behalf of two other trustees  (Mr D2 & Mr G) complains through  a claims 
management company  (CMC),  that he was sold an unsuitable savings programme by a 
predecessor business  of Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited.
background
In 1989, Mr D took out a unit-linked  savings  programme which was held on a flexible trust for 
his niece. Mr D says the plan was surrendered in 2002.  The CMC says the plan wasnt  
suitable as it was an exclusively long-term savings plan and circumstances were likely to 
change. 
Due to length  of time that has passed since the plan commenced,  Sanlam doesnt hold any 
information about the circumstances surrounding the sale.  
Our investigator thought the plan was suitable,  so she didnt uphold it. She said in brief, Mr D 
took the plan out for the benefit  of a child, so it was more likely than not he was looking for a 
long-term savings plan which would provide financial support in the future.   
The CMC disagreed, saying the plan needed  to be maintained for at least 25 years  to have 
the possibility  of providing a meaningful return. And even  though  the child was an infant 
when the policy commenced, its likely the proceeds  of the policy  would have been required 
sooner. The CMC also says the plan had a maturity date of 65th birthday so it wasnt 
appropriate. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment to him, but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
In giving advice,  Sanlam needed to ensure  that it took into account  Mr Ds circumstances 
and needs at the time, as his reasons  for investing.  
The CMC hasnt been able to provide any documentation from the time of sale, nor has 
Sanlam. Thats not surprising given how long ago everything happened. Where the evidence  
is missing or incomplete, as it is here,  Im required to decide matters  on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider most likely to have happened.
The information Ive seen comes from Sanlam  it was able to send us the product literature, 
an illustration document  from 1999, the flexible  trust certificate  and the rest comes from 
Mr Ds recollection of the sale when he complained that the sale was unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN64137092Mr D took out a unit-linked  savings plan. An illustration document  from 1999,  shows Mr D 
investing £15 a month towards the plan. Sanlam has provided the product literature which  
shows it was an open-ended whole-of-life plan where premiums can be accepted until age 
65. It can be cashed in at any time once enough value had accrued, but the savings 
programme is designed to grow steadily with the full benefit and worth being  realised  after 
about 25 years .
Based on the very limited  information available about what  Mr D was looking for at the time, 
Im not persuaded the product Sanlam  recommended was unsuitable. I say this because 
Mr D purchased the savings plan on trust for an infant, his niece. Its clear  Mr D was 
concerned about  the childs financial stability in the future as he says he took the plan out at 
a time when  the parents werent married,  and they had no fixed abode. So, I think  its likely 
Mr D was seeking a long-term savings plan to cater to his concerns. 
The CMC points out that the full benefit of the plan is released after about 25 years and 
circumstances might change before then. As with any savings, circumstances  could change  
at any point requiring  the need to access the funds sooner,  but that doesnt necessarily 
make the plan unsuitable. I say this because when considering  the circumstances here, it 
seems more likely  than not the money was to be used as a cash  reserve  should the child 
need it at some point  in the future. This is likely to be around the time when the child 
wouldve become  an adult having a need  for a pot of money to lean on. 
I note, the CMC says the maturity date is 65th birthday which  was inappropriate. However, 
the product literature  clearly explains contributions to the plan can be made  until 65th 
birthday. But the full benefit is released after about 25 years.  In this case, the child was an 
infant so the full benefit could have been  obtained  much earlier  than their 65th birthday.   
Overall looking at Mr Ds needs  at the time,  and his likely understanding of the plan, I cant 
fairly say the plan was wrong  for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6413709