K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs F bought the policy in 1998 shortly after taking  out a mortgage. Mrs Fs recollection is 
that it was applied for by a postal application.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs F for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mrs Fs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £15.18  a month.  
At the time,  Mrs F was employed as a secretary.  She has told us she was entitled to 
between six-and  12-months  employee  sick pay if she was too unwell to work. She would 
also have received redundancy pay and death in service. Mrs F said she had savings she 
could have relied upon to make her mortgage repayments if she was unable  to work.  Mrs F 
has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2007.
Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Fs representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Fs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs F about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs F and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN66252152The information Mrs F received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN66252153I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Fs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs F sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs F and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN66252154did Mrs F know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
As Ive said above,  Mrs F applied for the PPI a few months after she applied for her 
mortgage. Ive seen a copy of both the mortgage  application itself and the PPI application 
which are different documents. The PPI application shows  that the policy was sold in-branch  
rather than Mrs Fs recollection that it was made  by post. As the policy  and the mortgage 
were taken at separate times, and the PPI application was made several months  after the 
mortgage itself,  I think  Mrs F would have known  that she had a choice about taking the PPI 
and that it wasnt  part of the mortgage package or that she had to take in order to be granted 
the mortgage. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs F knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Mrs Fs recollection  is that she didnt receive  any advice but BoS has told us it was in-branch 
advised sale which I think is most likely. Its clear from the printed PPI application  that Mrs F 
had answered  questions about her then current circumstances  such as her health and 
employment etc. Theres  also detail about the cost of the policy and its benefit.  And I think  
the application was most  likely  printed  out and signed by Mrs F after the conversation 
between Mrs F and the BoS representative and which  reflected what was discussed  and 
agreed upon. So, I think this sale was most likely an advised sale.  
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs F with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs F. But although questions were asked during the PPI application  to try and establish  
whether Mrs F had a need for the policy  by asking questions  about her wider 
circumstances such as any health  issues and employment  I dont  think  it did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable. I cant see it established what  other financial means Mrs F 
could potentially have  relied upon if she wasnt work  as an example.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs F given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs F, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs F had a need for the policy  Mrs F was solely responsible for the mortgage 
repayments and it seems likely Mrs Fs finances  would be put under  strain if she 
Ref: DRN66252155were not working   even allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits  she was 
entitled to and her savings. The policy would  have helped Mrs F manage  the 
consequences were  Mrs F unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs F.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs F. There was 
nothing about  Mrs Fs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult 
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Fs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs F sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs F was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs F was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs F would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be (which 
was disclosed on the PPI application).
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs F agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs F, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mrs F all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN66252156-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs F has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mrs F? To what extent did Mrs F suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs F. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs F 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs F 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs F, I have found  that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs F has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mrs F would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs F says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs F had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Fs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Ref: DRN66252157As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs F was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mrs F would  get back  in return  
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Fs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs F thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Mrs F 
knew about or ought to have known about  during the 12-month  period before the 
start date of the policy and which recurred within 12 months of the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs F 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs F be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs F from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs F was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs F wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Mrs F didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs F might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs F 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs F, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mrs F had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
Ref: DRN66252158accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs F was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mrs F that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs F would have  received full sick pay for, and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs F would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs F be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mrs Fs sick pay or redundancy money for other use. It would also 
mean Mrs Fs savings would remain intact. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs F was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs F 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs F would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs F 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN66252159Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs F in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs F compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs F thinks  BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mrs F, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Fs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs F and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs F in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6625215