K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that LeasePlan UK Limited  has applied unfair charges to her account at 
the end of her lease  agreement.
background
Miss R entered  into a hire agreement with LeasePlan. After  she returned the car damage  
charges were applied.  Miss R accepted  the charge for the internal damage but felt that the 
exterior damage was minor  and fell within the fair wear and tear guidelines.
LeasePlan says that there was a dent that was larger than 2cm and a chip that couldnt be 
removed with mechanical polishing. It says that any chips that cant be removed by 
mechanical polishing fall outside  of the fair wear and tear guidelines. It credited the charge 
for the front bumper  damage due to insufficient evidence.  
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that the dent appeared to be 
larger than was acceptable under the fair wear and tear guidelines. She said she couldnt 
comment on whether the chips  could be removed  thorough mechanical  polishing as this was 
a matter for the repairer.  She said that if Miss R could demonstrate the chips  could be 
removed and therefore fell within the wear and tear guidelines the charges for these should 
be removed. 
Miss R asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has accepted the charge for the internal  damage and LeasePlan has removed one of 
the initial charges  applied.  The outstanding issue is whether the remaining charges are fair.
LeasePlan is charging Miss R for a dent and also a chip. It says the damage falls outside  of 
the fair wear and tear guidelines. 
I have looked  at the inspection report and I understand the comments  about  where  the 
damage is but can see that the pictures with a number one show a dent and also a chip. I 
have looked at the British  Vehicle  Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and 
the other information  provided. As the picture  of the dent appears to show it being more than 
2cm I do not find I can say a charge has been unfairly applied for this.
I accept that a level of chipping  can be accepted as wear and tear. However the issue in this 
case is that LeasePlan have said that the chip cannot be removed by mechanic polishing. 
LeasePlan has provided a copy of its guidelines in regard to this. Unfortunately I cannot  say 
whether the chip could  or couldnt  be removed by mechanical polishing. However, without 
evidence to the contrary, I find it reasonable to accept LeasePlans comment about  the 
removal of the chip.  
Because of the points above,  I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN65641562my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6564156