K820x#14complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the service she received from Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  
(LBGI) after she made a claim  for water damage under her home insurance policy.
background
On 29 August 2018 Mrs G made a claim to LBGI  after a burst  water  pipe caused  a lot of 
damage to her kitchen,  living room  and hallway. LBGI accepted the claim and arranged  for 
the property to be dried. Drying started on 1 September and the property was confirmed to 
be dry on 26 September.
Mrs G said shed been promised repairs would start as soon as the property was dry. She 
contacted the builder  appointed by LBGI but he was away  for two weeks. On his return she 
was told he couldnt  start work for another three  weeks. Then she was told there would be a 
further delay.  LBGI  paid her £100  compensation for these delays.
Work eventually started on 12 November. The first builder left the site after his work  was 
criticised. Mrs G said one man was doing  the work  of several  different trades. LBGI agreed 
to appoint a new builder.  Unfortunately  the first builder had ordered a replacement  kitchen 
and it cancelled that order rather than passing the kitchen to the new builder.  That caused 
further delay and Mrs G couldnt have her kitchen replaced before Christmas.
LBGI arranged for Mrs G to stay in a hotel. When she went  to check  in, she was told she 
couldnt collect a key because the room hadnt  been  paid for. LBGI  said this was due to an 
error with the hotels  central reservation system.
In January 2019 Mrs G complained to LBGI about the quality of the work, the length of the 
claim and the overall service shed had. It paid her a further £150 compensation. 
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. Shes told us shed had several chest  infections  
due to the dust while the works were being carried out. Our investigator didnt uphold  the 
complaint. She thought the service from LBGI could have been better but that the 
compensation it had offered was fair.
As Mrs G didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive highlighted the main failings on the 
part of LBGI in the background section above.  But Id like to reassure Mrs G that Im aware 
of all the issues shes raised in her complaint  to us.
The only issue that remains in dispute  between the parties is the amount of compensation  
LBGI should  pay Mrs G for the shortcomings in its service to her.
Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more so than others.  But when this service  considers  how much 
compensation to award, its looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
Ref: DRN60777082policyholder above and beyond that which wed normally  expect  to see associated  with a 
claim of this type.
I can understand Mrs Gs disappointment that there was a delay of about six weeks  before 
repair works started when  shed  been  promised that theyd start straight away. The fact that 
she was kept in the dark about  the delays must also have  been frustrating. 
I can also understand her concern that after the initial start there was only one person on the 
job doing the work of several different trades.  I think that led to concerns about quality and 
that in turn affected the timescale.
I appreciate that the dust and dirt while the work  was going on wouldnt  have  been  good for 
Mrs Gs health. But I can see that LBGI was prepared to offer her alternative accommodation 
from an earlier stage. So I dont think its responsible for this. When she did move into a 
hotel, I can understand  that the mix-up about the booking would have caused her some 
embarrassment. But again I cant see that this was LBGIs fault.
Its only fair for me to recognise  that LBGI has acknowledged where  it was at fault and 
compensated Mrs G. Having taken all the circumstances into account I think  that 
compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs G but Ive thought  about this services approach  to awards  made in 
similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any more. If this complaint had 
come before me without any offer of compensation having already been made, its very 
unlikely, having  taken all the circumstances into account, that I would have awarded more  
than £250.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6077708