K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that DJS (UK) Limited (trading as Piggybank) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr S was given three loans by Piggybank between December 2017 and March 2018.  Each  
of the loans was repayable in monthly instalments. Mr S repaid his first two loans  before  
their due date. But at the time he made his complaint to Piggybank a balance remained 
outstanding on his final loan. A summary of Mr Ss borrowing from Piggybank is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 14/12/2017 07/01/2018 £    370
2 08/01/2018 01/03/2018 £ 1,500
3 10/03/2018 - £ 1,500
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think the checks 
Piggybank had done before agreeing the loans had been proportionate. But from the 
information Mr S had provided he was unable to determine that better checks would have 
shown Piggybank that Mr S couldnt  afford to repay the loans. So he didnt recommend that 
the complaint  should be upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Piggybank was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make checks to see whether Mr S 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing, and his lending history, but 
there was no set list of checks Piggybank had to do.
Piggybank has told us about  the checks it did before lending  to Mr S. Before agreeing  each 
loan it asked him for details of his income,  and his normal expenditure. It then checked his 
credit file and looked at how much Mr S was spending each month on other credit 
commitments. And it looked at how hed managed credit in the past.
I can see from Mr Ss credit file, and the results Piggybank obtained, that he had faced some 
problems repaying  credit in the past.  It looks as though he defaulted on a couple of loans 
around 2012. But that was some time before he asked to borrow  from Piggybank. And his 
recent borrowing  history appeared to be far more stable. So I dont think the results that 
Piggybank received from the credit check  should  have caused  it to have additional concerns 
about Mr Ss financial situation.
Ref: DRN65843412Each of Mr Ss loans  was repayable in monthly instalments. So the amounts that Mr S 
needed to repay each  time were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But of 
course he was committing to making those repayments over a longer period.
The first loan that Mr S took was relatively  modest  compared to the income  he declared to 
Piggybank. And his repayments appeared to be easily  affordable based on what hed said 
about his disposable income. This was the first loan hed taken from Piggybank.  So I think  it 
was reasonable  for Piggybank to base its affordability assessment on the information Mr S 
provided. And that suggested the loan was affordable for him. I dont think Piggybank  was 
wrong to give this loan to Mr S.
Mr S repaid  his first loan early  it was scheduled to run for three  months, but he repaid it 
after around three weeks. On the following day he asked to borrow again. The amount he 
asked to borrow had increased significantly, and so had the monthly repayments that Mr S 
needed to make. I think this pattern of behaviour should have started  to cause some concern 
to Piggybank. But on balance I still think it was reasonable for the lender to rely on the 
information Mr S provided about  his finances. And that still suggested  even the much higher 
repayment would be affordable for him. So I dont think  Piggybank  was wrong  to give this 
loan to Mr S either.
Although the second loan was due to be repaid over four months,  Mr S repaid it around 
seven weeks later. And just more than a week after that he asked to borrow  a similarly large 
amount again.  I think by now Piggybank  should  have realised that Mr Ss finances were 
most likely under some pressure. Although I still think  it was reasonable for Piggybank to 
base its affordability assessment on information that Mr S provided,  I think  it should have 
asked him some very specific questions about any other short term loans  that he was 
already committed to repaying.
As I dont think Piggybank  carried out what I consider to have been  proportionate checks  on 
the final loan,  I cant say for sure what it would have found out had it done so. We asked 
Mr S to provide us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for the 
loans, so we could see what information Piggybank shouldve taken into account  before  
agreeing to lend to him. 
Mr S sent us copies  of some statements for two different bank accounts. But our adjudicator 
explained that these accounts  didnt appear to show most of the normal  transactions that 
wed expect to see, such as income being  received, and household  expenditure  and credit  
commitments being paid. And I can see from Mr Ss credit file that he did in fact hold another 
current account at the time he took the third loan  an account that he hasnt given  us his 
statements for.
Our adjudicator explained why we need  the information and the likely consequences  of us 
not receiving it. Despite that, Mr S still hasnt given us what we asked for. So, I havent been 
able to get a picture of what his financial circumstances  were  like at the relevant time. That 
means I cant say that if Piggybank had completed sufficient checks it wouldve found  that 
Mr S couldnt afford to repay  the final loan. 
Ref: DRN65843413I appreciate that Mr S gave us an estimate  of his income and outgoings at the time of the 
loan. And most of the information he gave us does appear to be in line with what he told 
Piggybank when he applied for the loan.  But without  all his bank statements I cant  get an 
accurate picture  of what his other credit commitments were  at the time, and what  Piggybank 
is likely  to have seen  if it had done  sufficient checks. So I cannot conclude that proportionate 
checks would have  suggested this loan was unaffordable for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
DJS (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019..
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6584341