K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Virgin Money  Plc didn't tell him that it was closing his regular branch.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional
decision dated 22 February 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision.
Virgin Money hasnt  responded to my provisional  decision. But Ive seen evidence that it was 
sent a copy of my provisional decision and it has acknowledged receipt.  
Mr D has responded to my provisional  decision. In his response he said that he was happy  
with my provisional decision to uphold his complaint. But he thought  more  compensation 
should be awarded. He said this was because Virgin Money  had closed two different  
branches within a short  space of time. And he said he had turned up twice outside these 
branches to find they had been closed. So, Mr D felt more  compensation should be paid by 
Virgin Money to reflect  the inconvenience this had caused him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Ds additional comments and whether  these change  my provisional  
decision. 
I appreciate how frustrating it must have been  for Mr D that two of Virgin  Moneys branches 
closed within  such a short space of time.  But as I explained in my provisional decision the 
decision of Virgin Money to close its branches  isnt something this service can interfere  with. 
Decisions on branch closures are commercial decisions banks are entitled to make.  We 
arent here to punish businesses. So we cant punish Virgin Money  for deciding to close  two 
branches within a short  space of time. 
But, as I stated in my provisional decision,  because Virgin  Money didnt take reasonable 
steps to notify  Mr D of the branch closure  I thought an award of compensation was 
warranted here. Ive already explained in my provisional decision why Mr D couldnt have 
known about his branch closing unless Virgin Money  contacted  him. And I also said why I 
thought Virgin Money  couldve taken a different approach here because,  although it followed 
its policies and procedures, this resulted in an unfair outcome for Mr D.
In my provisional decision I addressed what impact the bank's failure  to appropriately notify  
Mr D of the closure of his regular branch had on him. And I explained why I thought  an 
award of compensation was right to recognise  what had happened.  As I made clear in in my 
provisional decision this compensation  award  is not for the closure of the branch; its for the 
failure of Virgin  Money to notify Mr D appropriately. 
Ref: DRN61072182In my provisional decision I acknowledged that Mr D had a wasted trip to the branch when 
he found out it had closed, which caused distress and inconvenience.  I appreciate  that the 
frustration Mr D felt wouldve been more given the impact  the previous branch closure had 
had on him. But I had already considered the background of Mr Ds complaint when I 
reached my provisional decision. And so, I was aware of the previous closure of Mr Ds 
branch when I provisionally decided what compensation Virgin Money  should  pay here.
While Mr D says I should award more compensation because  this was the second  closure  of 
his regular branch  I disagree. And I remain  satisfied  that £50 is a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount to recognise  all the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint.  
Mr Ds comments  do not change my provisional decision. And so I adopt the reasoning set 
out in my provisional  decision as my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I do 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Virgin  Money  plc should pay Mr D £50 compensation to put things 
right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Copy provision decision of 22 February 2019
complaint
Mr D complains that Virgin Money  Plc didnt tell him that it was closing his regular branch.
background
Mr D complains that Virgin Money  closed his regular branch on 22 June 2018. He only found
out it had been closed  when he visited it on 21 July 2018. He said he was unaware his
branch had been closed  before  then as Virgin Money didnt tell him. He thought  it shouldve
notified him in writing  prior to closing it.
Ref: DRN61072183Mr D wasnt happy about what had happened  and complained to Virgin Money.  He thought
hed received poor service and said he felt humiliated when  he arrived  at the old branch and
found out it was no longer open. To resolve his complaint he told Virgin  Money he wanted  it
to pay him £200  in compensation  for his trouble  and upset.
But Virgin Money  didnt  uphold his complaint because it said the decision to close Mr Ds
branch was one it had made as a business. It explained that this was because  its lease  had
come to an end and it hadnt been  able to agree suitable terms for its renewal. So it had
decided to merge with another branch instead.  It also said it had displayed  notices informing
customers of the impending closure within the branch and had written to and telephoned
others. So it didnt  think it had done anything  wrong.
Mr D disagreed and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into this and didnt
recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld.  They  didnt think Virgin  Money had
done anything  wrong and said Virgin Moneys decision to close Mr Ds regular branch  was a
commercial one, which we couldnt  interfere with. Mr D didnt agree and asked for his
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im departing from what
our investigator has said. Ill explain why.
Because Mr D didnt use online or telephone  banking, I can appreciate  how reliant hed be
on being able to get to his regular branch to help him make the transactions he wanted. But
Virgin Moneys decision to close a branch is a business decision that its entitled to make.
And I agree with the investigator that its not a decision we can interfere with.
But sometimes where a business strictly  follows  its policies  and procedures it can lead to a
unfair outcome for an individual consumer. And thats what I think happened  here for Mr D.
This is something this service can look at. And Ive thought about whether  Virgin  Money took
reasonable steps to keep Mr D informed of the branch closure.
Virgin Money says it displayed A4 posters  and A5 flyers in branch from mid June  2018  until it
closed. This marketing paraphernalia  explained the branch would be closed on 22 June, the
reason why, and gave  the details of the branch it would be merging with. But Mr D didnt see
them because he didnt visit the branch while these were on display. His last visit while  the
branch was open was in February 2018.  Virgin Money says the branch closure was only
confirmed in May 2018. So, while it couldnt have advertised the closure in branch during the
times Mr D visited his regular branch this also means Mr D couldnt have known his branch
was closing by what Virgin  Money  had done.
Virgin Money said it notified customers logging onto its website between 8 and 22 June 2018
of the branch closure. So, customers using online banking wouldve have known that Mr Ds
branch was closing.  And it said it emailed customers to inform  them  of the closure on 15
June 2018. But, Mr D has told us he isnt computer literate. So, advertising the branch
closure in these ways  wouldnt  have reached  him.
Mr D couldnt have  known  about the closure  of his branch unless he was contacted directly
by Virgin  Money. He was reliant on this information being given to him by post or over the
Ref: DRN61072184telephone. Hes told us he thinks other  banks inform  customers  when they are closing a
branch and that Virgin Money shouldve written  to him informing him of the intended closure,
providing details  of the new branch and the nearest tube station.
Virgin Money said it called some customers between 11 and 13 June 2018 and it said it
wrote to outstanding  customers  from 14 to 20 June 2018. But it accepts it didnt write to Mr D
or telephone  him to explain his branch would be closing.
Virgin Money said its agreement for contacting customers would include anyone  who had
made a transaction in the branch  in question within 18 months.  I understand Mr D had
visited this branch twice  in February  2018  to make a transfer  and withdrawal. So, Virgin
Money shouldve  contacted Mr D about  the branch closure. It said it didnt do so due to
marketing standard  data contact rules because there were two Mr Ds of the same initials
living at his address.
While Virgin Money says it followed  its contact  rules, Im not persuaded it was reasonable for
it to exclude Mr D on this basis.  I say this because these rules would mean that in a
household where there  are at least two customers with the same initials it wouldnt contact
either of them  because it could otherwise end up duplicating correspondence  that may be
relevant to one Mr D and not the other. I think this resulted in an unfair outcome for Mr D as
it meant he wasnt aware of the branch closure.
I think its reasonable for Virgin  Money to have known there would be some customers  who
would fall into the category Mr D fell into. Virgin Money says when it decided to close Mr Ds
regular branch it took account of the banking industrys Access  to Banking Standard. And 
bearing in mind this is intended to minimise the impact of branch closures on customers like
Mr D, I think a different approach couldve been  taken by Virgin  Money here.
Ive thought about the impact the banks failure  to notify Mr D appropriately had on him. He
said he had a wasted  trip to the branch when he found out it had closed and he said he was
caused distress and inconvenience. So, having  thought about what  happened here I think
Virgin Money should acknowledge the impact of it not notifying Mr D appropriately of the
closure of his regular  branch. And I think an award of compensation is warranted. But I think
its important to make it clear that this award  is not for the closure of the branch; its for the
failure of Virgin  Money to notify Mr D appropriately. And I think £50 is a reasonable amount
to resolve this complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im minded to uphold this complaint. Virgin  Money plc should
pay Mr D £50 compensation to put things right.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either  party has anything further to add  before considering  my
decision on this complaint once more.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6107218