K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) provided him with poor 
service when he asked  for documents relating to his motor insurance  policy. 
background 
Mr K asked for a copy of the policy booklet  on 24 June  2018. He asked for it again  twice in 
July 2018 and again in September  2018. He also asked for a cover  note when he called 
RSA to renew his policy on 6 July 2018. The policy was due to expire  on 10 July 2018 and 
Mr K thought  he needed one by law until the new policy  documents arrived.  He was told the 
cover note would  be issued by email  within  one to two days. Neither of the requested 
documents arrived, but Mr K got a new certificate of motor  insurance on 13 July 2018. 
Mr K called RSA on 19 July 2018  to say he still hadnt received the policy booklet. He also 
said Mrs K hadnt been able to drive the car from 11 July 2018  to 13 July 2018 due to the 
lack of a cover note.  Mrs K had checked  the Motor Insurance Database (MID) and the car 
wasnt showing as insured at that time.  RSA said the policy  booklet  had been sent. It 
apologised for the cover  note not having been  received  by Mr K, but said it wasnt  needed.  
Mr K wasnt  happy with the content of the letter RSA sent to him on 7 September 2018 in 
reply to his complaint. It said the policy booklet had been sent to him on 19 July 2018. It 
apologised again for the cover note not having  been  received by Mr K. It said a cover note 
wasnt needed, which it said should  have been explained to Mr K at the time. RSA offered 
him £75 for inconvenience. 
Mr K called RSA again on 12 September 2018, as the policy booklet still hadnt arrived.  It 
was finally  sent to him on that date, but as it was dated November 2013, he didnt think  it 
was the latest  version. During  the call, the advisor said a cover note had been requested for 
Mr K when he asked for one, but it was never issued. Mr K asked for the matter  to be 
passed to a manager, but the advisor  declined his request. The advisor then wrote  to Mr K 
confirming what shed  said in the call. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ks complaint. She thought RSA could have given Mr K 
better service. She noted that it had said the cover  note wasnt received by him, but later 
admitted it hadnt  been sent.  The investigator didnt think  RSA had intended to be dishonest, 
and she thought its offer of £75 compensation was adequate. 
Mr K said in order to comply with the law he needed  a cover note until he got the new 
certificate of insurance. He said hed asked repeatedly for a policy booklet. He pointed  out 
discrepancies in RSAs letters. He thought RSA had tried to give him the impression that the 
cover note was lost in transit. Mr K also said the policy booklet he got wasnt the most recent 
version, but his concern hadnt been  addressed. He didnt think it was good enough to 
assume there may not have been  any changes to it since 2013.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
Mr K had to request  the policy booklet  repeatedly  and didnt get one for over two months.  
Even then,  when he queried the date on the booklet,  he didnt get a response.  We asked 
RSA for a copy of the booklet. It said we could find it on its website,  but we were unable to 
Ref: DRN64107532do so. I think the date of the booklet  was a valid concern for Mr K that should  have been 
dealt with by RSA when Mr K queried it. 
It isnt clear why RSA failed to tell Mr K in July 2018 that it didnt think a cover  note was 
needed, and the reason for that. An explanation may or may not have reassured  him, but at 
least there would  have been  a conversation and each party would  have understood the 
other partys viewpoint. Instead, RSA promised to send Mr K a cover  note.  I think  that can 
only have confirmed Mr Ks view that one was necessary.  
When Mr K called RSA on 19 July 2018, he said Mrs K hadnt driven the car for two days 
due to not having the cover note.  RSA apologised for the document not having been 
received. That was misleading, given that the document had never been issued. Mr K told 
RSA that the car wasnt showing as insured on the MID after the previous policy ended. He 
thought that showed  a cover note was needed.  I think RSA should have advised  him that a 
policy can take a few days to appear  on the MID,  so the temporary  absence  of a record 
didnt mean  his car wasnt insured.       
I can see why Mr K wasnt happy with the content  of the letters RSA sent to him on 
7 September 2018 and 12 September 2018. The first letter  implied that the cover  note had 
been sent to him. The second  one said it wasnt issued, although it had been requested for 
Mr K, suggesting that RSA had made  an error in not sending  it. From the details I have, I 
cant say that RSA deliberately misled Mr K, but it was poor service to give him inaccurate 
information. Mr K says had he been allowed to speak to a manager at the time,  the matter  
may have  been  sorted out then.  Given the confusion over the issue,  I think  it would have 
been good service  on RSAs part to agree  to his request.
Mr K sent us a copy of an extract from the Road Traffic Act 1988 that says a policy  of 
insurance is of no effect until the certificate of insurance is delivered  to the insured person. 
But that requirement was amended by later legislation.  Theres no longer a need to deliver  
a certificate of insurance if its emailed to the insured person or it can be viewed on a 
website and the insured person is made  aware of how its available  and agrees to that.  
We asked RSA if Mr K would have been able to access the policy  online. In response RSA 
said it told Mr K during the renewal call on 6 July 2018 that his cover  had been renewed.
It also said a cover note wasnt sent to him as a certificate of insurance had been  issued.  
RSA provided a screenshot showing that a renewal letter (presumably the invitation to 
renew) was issued on 16 June 2018. The screenshot shows that a certificate  of insurance 
was issued the same day. RSA also said that Mr K could have accessed his online account  
and the documents would have been available as soon as RSA was ready to print them.
I think RSAs recent comments are confusing. It suggested in its letter of 12 September  2018 
that the cover note wasnt sent due to an error  on its part. It now says it wasnt  sent because 
the certificate of insurance was issued at the same  time as the renewal letter  in June 2018. 
But at that point the policy hadnt been  renewed.  Mr K didnt agree to renew  it until 
July 2018, so a new certificate  couldnt have been issued in June 2018. 
Even if Mr K could have  viewed the renewal documents  online before the old policy  ended  
and before the new certificate arrived by post,  it seems he wasnt  made aware  that they
would be there to be viewed. It isnt clear why RSA didnt do that on 6 July 2018 or 
afterwards. 
Ref: DRN64107533As Mr K agreed to renew the policy on 6 July 2018, RSA ensured  his cover was continuous. 
It would have been obliged to cover  any incident that occurred after the old policy ended but 
before the new certificate of insurance  was received. I think  RSA should have explained the 
situation to Mr K and advised him that he could view the documents online.  As it didnt do so, 
he didnt have the chance to agree to it. But in practice, I dont think  RSAs omission meant 
he didnt have the benefit of the policys cover for two days  in July 2018, as he believes.  
In my opinion, RSA let Mr K down by providing  poor service to him from June 2018 onwards. 
I think he was caused a fair amount  of worry and frustration that could easily have  been  
avoided had RSA explained things properly to him. He had to spend  time writing to RSA and 
calling when  that shouldnt have been necessary. Given the distress  and inconvenience 
Mr K faced,  I think it would be reasonable for RSA to pay him a further  £100  compensation 
(£175 in total). 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Both Mr K and RSA accepted  
them. Mr K asked about the legislation that amended the Road Traffic Act 1988. It was 
amended by the Deregulation  Act 2015 (section 147).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  findings, theres  no reason to depart from the 
reasoning and outcome set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to pay Mr K £175 in total for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6410753