K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he electronically signed in February 2018. The car was nearly eight years old, its 
mileage was recorded on the agreement  as being 66,944  and the price of the car was 
£3,495. Mr J says that within a few days he noticed that the rear parking sensor and the 
windscreen washers werent  working  and the car was emitting  black  exhaust smoke.  He 
returned the car to the dealer. It repaired the issue with the windscreen washers but said that 
the issue with the parking sensor would have to dealt with by a different garage  and that it 
couldnt see that the car was emitting  black smoke. 
Mr J complained to MotoNovo Finance  in April 2018  and said that he wanted to reject the 
car. It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert.  The inspection report 
said that the car displayed no faults at the time of inspection and that the car was is in a 
condition commensurate  with its age and mileage. So it didnt uphold  Mr Js complaint. Mr J 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. The car is with the dealer 
and Mr J says that hes not going to collect it.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
dealer had tightened a loose pipe to resolve the issue with the smoke  and that the 
independent expert  had concluded that there were no faults with the car (other  than the 
reverse parking sensors  and a further  repair would be needed  to fix them). But she said 
that the faults were commensurate with the age and mileage  of the car and werent  inherent  
faults so dont cause the car to be of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr J has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that it's not all about the car  its about  the service  and attitude of the garage  and he says 
that he was advised not to collect the car. He says that hes been  paying for something that 
he hasnt used for ten months  and that he doesnt  know where the car is or what  condition 
its in and he doesnt want to talk to the dealer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A used  car was supplied to Mr J in February 2018.  Within a few days  he contacted the 
dealer about three issues with the car: the windscreen washers and the parking sensors not 
working and the car emitting black  smoke. He returned the car to the dealer and it fixed the 
issue with the windscreen washers  but it said that the issue with the parking sensor would 
have to be dealt  with by a different garage. And it said that it couldnt see that the car was 
emitting black smoke.
Mr J returned the car to the garage because it was emitting black smoke and a loose pipe 
was tightened.  But Mr J said that he wanted  to reject the car so he complained  to MotoNovo 
Finance in April 2018. It arranged  for the car to be inspected  by an independent  expert later 
Ref: DRN62692272that month.  The cars mileage at that time was 67,754 miles.  And the inspection report  
concluded:
We can confirm the vehicle does  not smoke and the windscreen washers work 
perfectly well; and: In our opinion based  on the visible evidence we would conclude  
there were no faults with the vehicle. 
So the fault with the windscreen washers has been repaired by the dealer. And the dealer 
tightened a loose pipe which seems to have stopped the issue with the car emitting black  
smoke. And the independent  expert  has concluded  that there are no faults with the car. The 
dealer has told Mr J that it could arrange  for the rear parking sensor to be repaired  but he 
hasnt told it that he wants that to happen. 
Im not persuaded that those issues are enough to make the car of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied  to Mr J. Nor am I persuaded that the repairs  that have made  by the 
dealer give him a right to reject the car.
Mr J also complains about the service that hes received from the dealer and he says that he 
was advised not to collect the car. But Im not persuaded  that theres enough  evidence  to 
show that the dealer has dealt with him in an unacceptable or unreasonable  way  or that he 
was told not to collect the car. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
MotoNovo Finance to accept Mr Js rejection of the car  or to take any other  action in 
response to his complaint. Mr J should contact the dealer if he wants it to arrange the repair 
of the fault with the parking sensors   and I suggest that he collects the car from the dealer.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6269227