K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled  their motor insurance  
policy when they made  a claim.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a commercial vehicle insurance policy with UKI. After  they renewed  
the policy, the vehicle was stolen.  It was a van which had been modified into a campervan. 
UKI avoided  the policy and declined Mr and Mrs Ts claim. It said Mrs T hadnt said the 
vehicle had been modified  when she phoned  UKI and took out the policy.  And it said if shed 
told UKI this, it wouldnt have sold the policy.  It also cancelled  the policy. But it refunded the 
premiums Mr and Mrs T had paid. It also cancelled a policy held by Mr and Mrs T which 
covered a different car.
Mr and Mrs T complained to UKI. They said shed misinterpreted question  UKI asked about 
modifications to the vehicle. And theyd also sent proof of the no claims bonus  on the vehicle 
to UKI, which would have  indicated  it was a campervan. UKI rejected  their complaint. It said 
shed been asked a clear  question and not disclosed the modifications. And it didnt cover  
vans which had been modified into campervans under its commercial vehicle insurance  
policy. 
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint  to this service. Our investigator thought UKI hadnt 
done anything  wrong. He thought Mrs T should have disclosed the modifications when she 
took out the policy. And if she had, UKI would not have  sold them the policy.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  accept this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said 
Mrs T had interpreted  modifications to mean things such  as alloy wheels. And they said UKI 
could have known  it was a campervan  when they sent the no claims bonus  confirmation.
Since they asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  Mr and Mrs T have told us the vehicle has 
been recovered. But there was quite a significant  amount of damage which had been caused 
to the vehicle. Theyre arranging for repairs to be done.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
As Mr and Mrs T are consumers I need  to take into account The Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representation)  Act 2012 (CIDRA), even though  the policy they took out 
was a commercial vehicle policy. This puts an obligation on consumers to take reasonable 
care not to misrepresent when they enter  into a consumer  insurance contract. This is defined 
as a contract  is mainly  for purposes unrelated  to their business.   The  act also says if the 
consumer fails to meet this obligation  the insurer has a remedy  against the consumer if it 
can show that without  the misrepresentation it would not have entered  into the contract  at all, 
or would have done so only on different terms. This is what  the Act describes as a 
Qualifying Misrepresentation. 
Mr and Mrs T entered into (took out) two consumer insurance contracts (policies)  with UKI. 
The original  policy and then another one when they renewed it. But UKI appear to think that 
by voiding the first policy, on the basis Mr and Mrs T made a qualifying  misrepresentation 
both policies cease  to exist. But this isnt the correct approach,  as UKI needs to show 
Ref: DRN69304432Mr and Mrs T made qualifying misrepresentations on both policies, ie when they took out the 
policy originally and at renewal. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs T did make a qualifying misrepresentation  when they policy  took out 
the policy originally.  Ive listened to the call Mrs T made to UKI to take out the policy.  At no 
point in the call did she refer to the vehicle as a campervan. She said she wanted  to insure a 
van. When she was asked whether there  had been any changes  to the vehicle from the 
manufacturers standard specification, she said no. But the van had been  modified into a 
campervan, albeit  before Mr and Mrs T bought  it. 
I think the question  asked was clear  enough to expect Mrs T to disclose the modifications 
which had been  made. Ive also reviewed  the Motor  Proposal  Confirmation document  sent to 
Mr and Mrs T after theyd agreed to go ahead with the policy and policy documents which 
theyd have been sent by UKI. The covering letter with these referred  to commercial vehicle 
insurance, as did the policy document. So I think it should have been clear  to Mr and Mrs T 
that UKI didnt know the vehicle was a campervan. And I think  once Mr and Mrs T got these 
documents they should have contacted UKI to let it know. UKI has accepted, and its not 
disputed, that Mr and Mrs T were  careless  when  they made this misrepresentation. Theres 
no suggestion they made it deliberately  or recklessly. 
When Mr and Mrs T renewed  the policy, they were sent a new Motor Proposal Confirmation,  
which said there were no modifications to the vehicle. And documents which  referred to the 
insurance being for a commercial vehicle. The documents they were sent asked them to call 
if any of the information was incorrect.  Ive seen no evidence to suggest  they contacted UKI 
to tell them the van had been  modified  into a campervan. As Ive said, I think it was obvious 
the vehicle had been modified from its original  specification. So Im satisfied  Mr and Mrs T 
made another qualifying misrepresentation when they renewed the policy.  And again,  I think 
this was careless, as opposed to reckless or deliberate.
Ive spoken to Mr T and asked why they didnt  query  the policy  when they received the 
documents from UKI which referred to commercial  vehicle insurance. He told me hed 
noted this but as his wife had said business use wasnt needed, and the policy  didnt provide 
that cover, he didnt  think this was anything unusual. I understand his position but do think 
the documents would  reasonably lead to someone realising UKI thought it was insuring a 
commercial vehicle, not a campervan.
UKIs provided a screenshot of its guidelines,  which say that it wont  offer cover for vans  
which have been  modified  into campervans  under a commercial vehicle policy.  So it follows 
that if Mrs T had disclosed the modifications, it wouldnt have provided the policies, ie 
entered into the contracts.
This means  that technically UKI was entitled  to avoid both Mr and Mrs Ts policies.  But I 
dont think allowing it to do so would produce a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. 
UKI doesnt dispute that Mr and Mrs T sent proof  of their no claims bonus. And that it 
referred to the van being a motorhome. It also had the same registration  number as the 
vehicle Mr and Mrs T had insured with UKI. UKI has confirmed it received this before the 
date the original policy was due to begin. So I think the information sent to UKI gave it the 
opportunity to check whether the vehicle  had been  modified  into a campervan  and wasnt  
something it was able to cover.
Ref: DRN69304433UKI says its checks when it receives  proof  of a no claims  bonus are to determine the validity 
of the discount  offered, not the vehicle it applies to. But I dont accept  this justifies  the fact it 
didnt pick up Mr and Mrs T had actually insured a motorhome. I think UKI should have 
contacted them to check.  It didnt and this is why I dont think allowing to it to avoid the 
policies and refuse Mr and Mrs Ts claim produces  a fair and reasonable outcome. 
To put things right, I think UKI should  reinstate both policies and remove  any record  of the 
cancellations from databases. And it should  consider Mr and Mrs Ts claim in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the commercial vehicle insurance policy Mr and Mrs T 
actually took out. The cover  under  this might be more limited than the cover under a 
motorhome policy, but I think its right to make this part of the fair and reasonable outcome in 
this case, as Mr and Mrs T did fail to take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation.  
Also, UKI can deduct the premium it refunded from the amount due to settle the claim.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs T and UKI both responded to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs T broadly agree with my provisional  decision. They  have mentioned that having 
purchased new insurance policies, the premiums had been significantly  higher than when  
their vehicles were insured with UKI. So, they want any references to the policies being 
cancelled to be removed  from insurers databases.
UKI disagree  with my provisional decision. It believes Ive placed too much weight on the no 
claims discount proof it received. It says, while the proof of no claims discount had the same 
registration number  as the vehicle  insured  with it, registration numbers can be transferred 
between vehicles. UKI also dont think the information on the no claims discount proof was 
sufficient to show it was the same  vehicle as it was insuring. It doesnt think that document 
alone was sufficient to mean it should have realised the vehicle had been converted to a 
motorhome or to have caused it to make further enquiries.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr and Mrs T remain certain  that Mrs T didnt  make a misrepresentation when she 
spoke to UKI to take out the policy. But Im satisfied she did, for the reasons Ive outlined  in 
my provisional decision. Neither party has presented any new evidence to change my view 
on this. So I still think Mrs T made a qualifying misrepresentation when she said no 
modifications had been  made to the vehicle. And again at renewal by not letting UKI know 
the information it held was incorrect. 
I accept UKIs point about a vehicle registration  being transferrable. But I dont think  this is a 
valid reason for them not picking up on the fact Mr and Mrs T were insuring a campervan. 
The registration number  of their vehicle appears  to be a generic number, and not 
personalised in any way. And while the model of the vehicle isnt listed  on the no claims 
discount proof, I remain satisfied there was enough information on that document for UKI to 
have noted it was more likely than not to be the same vehicle as it was insuring. And to 
realise the vehicle  had been modified into a motorhome. 
Ref: DRN69304434It also appears UKI is making  a different argument  now to that which  it made previously. It 
previously said it only checked the registration number to confirm  the no claims discount was 
valid. It now seems  to argue that, even if it had checked the document  in more detail, it 
wouldnt have had sufficient grounds to think it was the same vehicle. But as Ive said,  Im 
satisfied there was enough detail for it to have, at minimum, had reason to ask Mr and Mrs T 
whether the vehicle had been modified into a motorhome. Therefore, I remain satisfied the 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is as I set out in my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs T want the references to the cancelled policies to be removed from insurers  
databases. Ive previously said this should be done and havent seen anything to change my 
thinking on this point. And this means they can contact their new insurer about  having the 
premium they paid amended retrospectively to reflect this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is to uphold  
the complaint.  I order UK Insurance Limited  to:
Retrospectively reinstate the policies held by Mr and Mrs T for their campervan.
Consider the claim for damage to the campervan  accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the commercial vehicle insurance policy.  UKI may deduct the premiums 
refunded from any claim settlement.
Remove any record of the policies being avoided from internal  and external 
databases.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6930443