K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Covea Insurance plc has declined her claim for subsidence, under her 
buildings insurance  policy. 
When I refer to Covea, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives. 
background
In 2003, Mrs S had a single storey extension built to the right-hand  side of her house, and a 
conservatory built at the rear. 
In September  2015 she noticed that the extension  and the conservatory  were coming away  
from the house, and cracks had appeared. She also had a problem closing the windows 
because of the movement. She notified  Covea  and made a claim for subsidence. 
Covea appointed an expert  to visit Mrs S house  and assess  the damage. Following this visit 
in December 2015 and the experts report,  Covea declined the claim. They  said the 
foundations for the extension and conservatory  were insufficient. The claim was declined  as 
a result of poor workmanship. 
Mrs S appointed her own expert, who contacted Covea  in September 2016.  He asked them  
to reassess the claim as he felt there were leaking drains at the house that had contributed  
to the movement of both structures. He also said that he thought  the foundations were 
adequate at the time of construction to cope with the load bearing  pressures. 
Covea responded to say that the leaking drains could be considered but there  wasnt  any 
proven link to the subsidence that had been caused.  They said that any repairs  carried out 
wouldnt extend to the extension and conservatory. 
Another expert spoke  to Covea in January 2017, on behalf of Mrs S. They  asked Covea to 
repair the drains under the policy and to monitor the house following the repairs,  to see if the 
movement stopped. Covea responded to Mrs S explaining that, although the drains  had 
failed a pressure  test, they were serviceable and were not the cause  of the movement to the 
extension and conservatory. They continued to decline the claim on the grounds the 
movement was caused by poor workmanship, not subsidence. 
But Covea did agree to revisit Mrs S, which they did in April 2017. A further report was 
conducted and said the foundations of both structures had a defective  design. The original 
decision to decline the claim was upheld. 
Nothing happened until Mrs S raised  a complaint with Covea in April 2018. The complaint 
was about the leaking  drains not being repaired and the subsidence claim being declined. 
Covea agreed  to repair the leaking  drains  under a separate  part of Mrs S buildings  
insurance policy, but they didnt change their decision on the subsidence aspect. 
Because of this, Mrs S raised  a further complaint in August 2018.  She said because Covea 
had accepted liability for the repairs to her drains they should also accept that the leaking 
drains had contributed to the subsidence. But Covea didnt  agree. They said it was accepted 
the drains needed repairing,  but there wasnt anything  in any of the reports to suggest  the 
damage to the drains had caused the subsidence.  So, while they accepted  the drain repairs  
Ref: DRN61029872under another part of the policy,  they didnt agree any liability  for the subsidence and 
maintained poor workmanship  and defective  design was the cause of the movement. 
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said that 
the foundations werent  in line with the building regulations at the time for the extension.  And 
she said that, although building regulations werent  applicable for the conservatory, they had 
to be considered along with general  industry good  practice. The investigator thought  that the 
foundations werent  as they should be for the conservatory either, and her opinion was that it 
was fair for Covea  to decline the claim for the reasons they had. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She said the extension build had been signed off by a building inspector 
from her local authority in 2003, which suggested the foundations were okay. She wanted 
Cove to accept that the leaking  drains had caused some of the damage, and for them accept 
some of the liability for the repairs needed to the foundations.  
As Mrs S didnt agree,  its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking Covea 
to do anything more.  Ill explain  why. 
Covea have relied on a General Exception  in Mrs S policy  to decline the claim for 
subsidence. This exception states: 
Any loss, damage or liability caused by or arising from:

Faulty design or workmanship or the use of faulty materials.
I need to decide if Covea  have acted fairly in declining  Mrs S claim for this reason. And in 
this case, I think it has. 
Extension
The reports  provided  confirm the foundations of the extension were constructed  to a depth of 
1100mm below ground level. The foundation  was 250mm thick and had a projection of 
170mm. Importantly, the foundations  were  constructed on loose  fill ground, or made 
ground. 
The Building Regulations in force at the time do not specify what the foundation depth 
should be for a structure of this sort. But they do provide guidance on what the structure 
should be able to withstand  if there is any ground  movement.  Section A2 of the Regulations 
are relevant  to ground movement and say that the building shall be constructed  so that 
ground movement caused  by- 

Land-slip or subsidence  (other  than subsidence  arising from shrinkage), in so far as the risk 
can be reasonably  foreseen, 
will not impair the stability of any part of the building.
Ref: DRN61029873There are further regulations that mention foundations being built on made ground.  They  
advise caution  and that the foundations should only be for lightly loaded structures that can 
tolerate the resulting settlements. 
Further tests on the soil showed that tree roots were visible  at a depth of 1400mm, and the 
made ground became firm soil at a depth of 2100mm. When this extension was built,  the 
builder had a responsibility  to ensure  it was constructed  to an appropriate standard   the 
building regulations from the time. Id expect  this to include ensuring the foundation was 
capable of supporting the structure for a reasonable period  of time, bearing in mind the 
circumstances at the time it was built. 
Considering the regulations in place  at the time, and the nature of the soil that the 
foundations were constructed upon, Im satisfied that they werent built to a suitable  depth to 
withstand the load bearing that was going  to be applied. 
I know Mrs S feels that the foundations for the extension were adequate at the time it was 
built, and she points  to the structure  being signed off by the local authority building  inspector 
as proof  of this. She has also provided a list of things the building inspector was required to 
check prior to signing the structure off. But I havent  seen  anything that confirms the building 
inspector checked  the depth  of the foundations. And in any case, it isnt for me to decide on 
the actions of the building inspector   its only for me to decide if I think  Covea have acted 
fairly in declining the claim  based on the information  they have. 
Conservatory
The reports  provided  confirm the foundations of the conservatory were constructed  to a 
depth of 450mm  below  ground  level. There was also mention of some adjacent vegetation 
that could be having an influence on the foundations and structure  movement. Again, the 
foundations were constructed upon made  ground.
Covea considered standards applied by a certain builder of new homes.  They said this 
requires a minimum foundation of 900mm and, taking into account the nearby vegetation,  
recommends a depth of 1800mm. But these standards dont apply here.  Mrs S conservatory 
wasnt built as part of a new home   and the builder wasnt  required to consider the 
standards for any other  reason. The conservatory  was also exempt  from the building 
regulations.
That said,  in my view it would be reasonable for the builder  to take into account the relevant 
guidance and best practice available at the time of construction.  Even  though the builder 
wasnt required to meet building regulations, I believe the regulations do still offer a good  
indication of the type of foundation  depth that would  be appropriate. 
At the time the conservatory was built, building regulations generally required a minimum 
foundation depth of 900mm.  Whilst I dont  have the foundation depth of Mrs S house,  I do 
have the foundation depth of the extension,  which was constructed to a depth of 1100mm. 
So, it could be argued that the conservatory foundations ought to have been built to this kind 
of depth. But the conservatory foundations  were  at a depth  of 450mm. The reports have  
shown that the soil became desiccated, or dry, at 1000mm. This indicates that the nearby 
vegetation might have influenced the movement of the conservatory. And Im satisfied that, 
had the foundations for the conservatory been at a depth more  akin to the extension, any 
potential problems with the vegetation and subsequent subsidence would have been 
Ref: DRN61029874noticed. Remedial  action could have been taken at that point. So, Im persuaded that the 
foundations for the conservatory  were  defective.
Mrs S has confirmed  that she initially noticed  cracks in both structures  in 2008, five years  
after both were erected.  At that time,  she asked the original builder to return, who confirmed 
the cracks  were as a result of settlement, and proceeded  to fill them in. Although  it was a 
further seven  years  before further cracks and movement were seen, Im not persuaded that 
the structures have  ever had a sustained period of stability. The use of made  ground  
alongside the depth of the foundations and the loads that theyre bearing would suggest that 
the movement  was inevitable from the outset.
I appreciate Mrs S point  that the leaking  drains  have now been repaired and that Covea 
should accept  that those  leaks  contributed to the subsidence. But I havent  seen  anything  
that confirms that. It was right for Covea to repair the drains, as Mrs S has that cover  in her 
buildings insurance  policy. But I cant say from what Ive seen that the leaking drains were 
the cause of the subsidence. I accept that Mrs S expert said that he thought the foundations 
were adequate and could  cope with the load bearing  being  applied. But Im more  persuaded 
by the evidence and reports from Covea explaining  that the depth of the foundations  is 
inadequate, and that has led to the problems  she has encountered.  
So, for the reasons outlined above, I wont be asking Covea to take any further  action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6102987