K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a Self-Invested  
Personal Pension (SIPP)  which  has caused him consequential financial  losses and hardship.
background
Mr H has been an RBS customer for many years. In 2006 he was expecting  a large sum of 
money from a business contract and approached RBS for advice.  Mr H was interested in 
investing into commercial  property in connection with his business. 
At the time of the advice Mr H was 43 and single with no dependants.  The fact find recorded 
he was self-employed  with an annual income  of £170,000 and that he was a higher rate tax 
payer. It showed he had no pension provisions  and was looking to have an income of 
£100,000 a year by the time he reached age 65. The suitability letter issued  in November 
2006 set out that Mr H had been given advice  about Retirement Lifestyle and that he wished 
to start investing on a regular basis into investments that were  earmarked to provide an 
income in retirement.  It said Mr H wanted to keep his money in cash  short-term  and invest 
into commercial  property  in the near future.
RBS advised in 2006 to open a SIPP and annually contribute  £78,000  net (£100,000 gross). 
In the suitability letter the adviser explained that usually they wouldnt advise to contribute  
over 50% of someones  disposable  income to a pension, but as Mr H was expecting  a large 
additional payment (£230,000) they felt a payment of £100,000 that year was reasonable.  It 
said Mr H might be prepared to invest additional sums in the future. The money was to be 
kept in a cash deposit fund until Mr H had found  a property he wanted to buy. It was 
recorded Mr H wanted to keep the money as secure as possible in the short-term  until he 
had found a suitable property to buy and didnt want it to be exposed to fluctuations. He was 
informed that cash  wouldnt be safe from inflation  and they had talked about the benefits of 
diversification, rather than putting all eggs  into one basket. Mr H was recorded as wanting  
to take the high risk of investing into commercial property.
A key advantage was set out to be the tax relief Mr H could gain by investing  through the 
SIPP rather than investing into commercial property outside a pension. Due to cashflow 
issues on Mr Hs side annual contributions were adjusted to £25,000 net in December 2006.
A few months later, in early 2007, Mr H saw another  adviser as the previous one had gone 
on maternity leave. Another fact find was completed  and another  suitability letter  was issued. 
It showed Mr H had found a potential commercial  property with an approximate value of 
£175,000. It was recorded that Mr H was looking to use funds in the SIPP and new 
contributions to buy it to reduce cash in the SIPP and take advantage of available  tax 
benefits. And that longer  term, once the property had been bought and rented out, Mr H 
planned to invest  any remaining  cash  and future  contributions into managed funds which  
had yet to be determined. As Mr H wanted  to maximise his contributions,  it was 
recommended to make annual net contributions of £78,000.
The purchase of the commercial property fell through (for reasons not attributed to RBS) and 
in December 2007 Mr H was advised by another financial  business to transfer the majority of 
his cash fund into managed funds which he did.
Mr H says he should never have been  sold the SIPP by RBS. His business was registered 
abroad and the large client fee he was expecting was paid tax-free. He said he queried at 
Ref: DRN67640892the time how gross  funds  could be grossed up in a pension, but says RBS assured him this 
wouldnt be a problem.  Mr H says his new accountant told him shortly  afterwards  that he was 
facing a large tax bill from HMRC for the year 2007 and confirmed that gross  payments 
couldnt be grossed  up, i.e. receive  tax relief. Mr H contacted HMRC  and agreed  a 
repayment plan to settle his liabilities.
Mr H says not being able to access the funds in his SIPP has caused him significant 
financial loss and hardship. Having to pay back his HMRC debts has restricted  his income 
and he had to borrow funds including from his partner and his father. Hes also lost out on 
business deals  as a result of not having  quick access  to capital. 
Mr H says his long-term retirement goal was to purchase and redevelop  a row of three 
particular residential  properties which he saw as a once in a lifetime  opportunity.  He had 
bought the first one before the SIPP was taken  out. When the second one came up for sale 
he tried to release  funds  from the SIPP which wasnt possible,  so his partner had to take out 
a mortgage. The final property had come up for sale, but Mr H was unable to buy it as again  
his funds are tied up in the SIPP  putting  his key objective and long-term goal at risk. He also 
doesnt have the funds  to pay the capital on his interest-only mortgage  at the end of its term. 
Mr H says RBS were  very aware  of these plans  and in fact several of its employees  had 
visited the property  in the past.
Mr H says he wasnt able to take advantage of the key benefits of a SIPP,  this being 
flexibility, control and tax relief on the contributions. He says he could have invested into 
commercial property directly in 2006/2007 without paying income  tax and would have  had 
free access  to his funds  if they hadnt  been tied up in a SIPP.  He says he wasnt made 
aware that he couldnt access  his SIPP funds as flexibly as he wanted,  for example for 
purchasing residential  property or borrowing against it. And he also wasnt made aware that 
when it came to retirement  he only was able to take 25% tax free and had to pay income tax 
on the remaining  benefits. The contribution of £78,000 net should also have been  a single 
payment and not an annual contribution.
RBS rejected Mr Hs complaint. They said the SIPP advice had generally  been suitable. 
Mr H had been recorded as a higher rate taxpayer and confirmed in his SIPP application  that 
his contributions were  paid from UK taxable  earnings. Mr H had also been advised at the 
time to consult his accountant for tax advice. RBS also pointed to the key facts documents 
that were given to Mr H during the meetings in November 2006 and February 2007 and 
which explained how a SIPP worked.  
RBS did however think annual gross  contributions  of £100,000 were  too high and shouldnt  
have been recommended  as such large  payments until age 65 would have likely led to Mr H 
exceeding his lifetime allowance. RBS explained that Mr H wasnt  charged more  for setting 
up annual contributions rather than a single  payment. And after the first large net 
contribution of £78,000, Mr H didnt make any further regular annual payments of this size. 
So Mr H hadnt been financially disadvantaged.  However, Mr H had to deal with direct  debit 
issues when the SIPP provider was trying to take a second contribution of £78,000 after a 
year. RBS offered to pay Mr H £500 in compensation for the inconvenience and distress  this 
caused. They also offered another £500 for the delays in dealing  with his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint in respect to the SIPP  advice given and 
thought offered compensation  for recommending a high annual contribution instead of a 
single payment was fair.
Ref: DRN67640893Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has submitted a lot of information,  both verbally and in writing  which  Ive all considered  
in detail and which I thank him for. As we are an informal service I trust Mr H doesnt regard 
it as disrespectful that I wont repeat every  detail but that Ill only focus on what I see are the 
key considerations  to this complaint.
The crux of his complaint is that he has been  mis-sold a SIPP and the consequences  that 
have arisen from this. I recognise that Mr H has mentioned other  issues,  for example issues 
with establishing  an invoicing account for his business and more recently problems with his 
bank account,  credit card and overdraft. It has been  pointed out to Mr H that these would 
have to be raised as separate  complaints with RBS and I havent considered any of these 
issues in this decision.
I understand that investing into a SIPP has resulted in a large  tax bill from HMRC and I have 
sympathy for the difficulties this caused him over the years. The issue  for me to determine 
here is whether  RBS mis-sold him the SIPP.  And based on the information I have I cant  
fairly say they did. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt approach RBS for retirement  planning, but simply for advice how to best 
buy commercial  property.  He also says RBS knew of his real retirement plans which  
included the purchase of the row of residential  properties.
I dont know what exactly was discussed during the meetings with RBS,  so I have to decide  
what happened on the balance of probabilities. The suitability report in November 2006 
clearly mentions that Mr H is looking for Retirement Lifestyle advice and sets out that he 
doesnt have any current pension provisions. And in the suitability report  in 2007  it states  
that Mr H was planning to invest future contributions into managed funds once the 
commercial property had been bought (which is what he eventually  did in late 2007). So 
whilst its clear Mr Hs plan at the time was to buy a commercial property Im satisfied that he 
also was looking to use the SIPP to accumulate  retirement benefits.
 
The residential properties Mr H says he always saw as his pension  provisions arent 
mentioned anywhere  in the sales documentation. In fact no future plans of buying residential 
property was mentioned.  Given  how important this project was to Mr H I would have 
expected him to raise at the time that this wasnt mentioned in any reports  if this had formed  
part of the discussions. I dont doubt Mr Hs recollections that other  RBS employees had 
been to Mr Hs property  previously and knew about  what he was planning to do with the 
properties, but on balance I think this wasnt discussed as part of the SIPP  advice meetings. 
I appreciate Mr H says he never  received any of the fact finds  and suitability reports as they 
were sent to the wrong address, however I can see that they were sent to the address held 
by RBS at the time (different addresses in 2006 and 2007). In 2007 Mr H also completed  
and signed SIPP documents which included the same address. On balance I think  the 
documents were  sent to the addresses Mr H gave to RBS at the relevant meetings and he 
likely received them.
Ref: DRN67640894Given Mr Hs circumstances at the time I think advising him to use a SIPP to invest into 
commercial property was reasonable. It met his concrete objective of investing into 
commercial property whilst at the same time accumulating retirement  benefits.  He was 
prepared and able to take the associated risks and given his large disposable income at the 
time paying large sums  into his pension was affordable. A key advantage of making  large 
contributions to a pension  and what seems was the biggest draw factor here was the 
significant tax relief on pension contributions. 
And this is the key issue here. Mr H told us the contributions he paid came from fees abroad 
which were paid tax-free, and so he had to pay back the tax relief he received  from HMRC  
which led to his financial difficulties over the years. Mr H says he queried with the adviser at 
the time whether gross funds could  be grossed  up but says he was reassured this wasnt  a 
problem. 
Again I dont know what exactly was discussed in the meeting. Self-employed  earnings 
generally will be received  gross and tax only will be deducted after a self-assessment is 
completed. That in itself wouldnt be an issue. I assume the money  Mr H received from his 
contracts didnt count as UK income  which  is why receiving  basic  tax relief  and possibly 
claiming higher  rate tax relief on his pension contributions from these funds became an 
issue. But I dont have  enough evidence to say the adviser knew  the ins and outs of 
Mr Hs tax position and how Mr H would  declare  his income. The fact find showed Mr H as a 
resident in the UK and as a self-employed higher rate tax payer. And he signed  the SIPP 
application in which he declared he would inform  the SIPP provider  if he stopped having 
earnings subject  to income tax. So based  on the evidence from the time I think  there was no 
reason for the adviser to think that Mr Hs earnings werent self-employed  earnings  subject  
to UK income tax. 
I can also see that the suitability report in 2007 mentions that Mr H had consulted  both his 
accountant and his legal adviser  with regards to the commercial property purchase through 
the SIPP. It seems Mr Hs tax position was non-standard and he was in touch  with his 
accountant at the time. So I would have reasonably expected him to seek his accountants 
guidance if he was concerned that he wouldnt be eligible for tax relief. 
So in summary,  based  on the information I have I dont think RBS can reasonably be held 
responsible for the tax issues Mr H faced.
I also cant see evidence that Mr H would  have been  told he could freely  access  his funds in 
the SIPP before retirement age or that he wasnt made aware  only 25% of his retirement 
benefits were tax-free and that he had to pay income tax on the remainder. I can see that the 
suitability reports referred to key fact documents and illustrations  which were given to him in 
the meetings and said it was important Mr H read the reports in conjunction with these  
documents. If Mr H hadnt received these documents I would have expected him to raise this 
RBS at the time, which I cant  see he did.
The illustrations showed his projected  benefits  at retirement at age 65. It was noted that
The pension amounts shown are before deduction of income tax. Any tax payable  depends 
on your total income  in retirement.
And the key facts  document  said 
Ref: DRN67640895before the age of 75 you can usually take a quarter of your fund tax free 
and
 you can start pension fund withdrawals  or buy a pension  after age 50 (55 from 2010).
So I cant see Mr H was misled about being  able to access his pension at any time or take all 
his benefits free from income tax.
I can see that Mr H wouldve liked to use his funds in the SIPP differently over the years,  i.e. 
invest in residential  property or use funds ad hoc for business purposes. However,  I think 
based on the evidence Ive seen  from the time of sale I cant see that these were objectives 
or plans  were discussed with the RBS adviser in 2006/2007.
Overall, I dont  think Mr H was mis-sold  the SIPP.
RBS have conceded that an annual  net contribution of £78,000 was too high. However, I 
cant see that Mr H has been financially disadvantaged by this. He said he had to deal with a 
direct debit for the second annual contribution which was worrying but which  he could stop in 
time. So I think £500 in recognition of the inconvenience this caused  is reasonable in the 
circumstances. I understand RBS have also offered Mr H another £500 for the delays in 
dealing with his complaint. Complaint  handling isnt a regulated  activity,  so I cant consider  
RBSs actions with regards to this.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr H is hoping for and I understand that he feels strongly RBS 
is responsible for the difficult situations  he found himself in over the years having to deal with 
cashflow issues caused by the tax debts he had to repay.  I also acknowledge that its 
possible issues were discussed, or the RBS adviser knew or should have known more about  
Mr Hs circumstances than the paperwork reveals. However, the point of sale documents do 
hold considerable weight  and they dont support some of Mr Hs recollections. So having  
considered all evidence  carefully-which includes  everything Mr H has told us- I think  its 
more likely than not RBS didnt mis-sell him the SIPP.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Its up to Mr H whether he wants  to accept RBSs offer of 
£1,000 (if it hasnt already been  paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6764089