K820x#14complaint
Mr G is complaining about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited because it didnt pay a claim for 
the total and permanent disability (TPD)  benefit  on his critical illness insurance policy.
background
In 2002, Mr G took out a level term life and critical illness  insurance  policy  with Aviva  
(formerly Norwich  Union). The policy was set up to provide cover of £73,000  over a term of 
25 years  and included  TPD benefits  designed to pay out if he became totally and 
permanently unable to do his normal job.
Sadly, Mr G has been experiencing various physical  and mental  health  problems  for a 
number of years. The policy continued  until April 2014, when it lapsed  because premiums  
went unpaid. More  recently, Mr G has tried to claim the TPD benefit.  Aviva considered the 
claim retrospectively, but didnt agree he was totally and permanently  unable to return  to his 
job before  the cover  ended in 2014.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that for the claim to be 
paid, thered need to be evidence to show Mr G had reached the point where  he met the 
policy requirements for a TPD claim before it ended  in 2014. She didnt think the available 
medical evidence  supported  that conclusion.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  assessment and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
Hes made  a number  of points, including the following:
We have a responsibility to safeguard vulnerable people from financial  abuse.
He missed premiums and his policy lapsed because  of fraud on his bank account.
The fact his policy had an own occupation  definition hasnt been fully recognised.
Assumptions have  been made about  his capability without asking him about this.
He stopped working in 2010,  since when hes been accepted  for state benefits.
The evidence shows hes totally and permanently unable to do his previous  job and 
hasnt been since  2010. A 2017  report from a consultant in occupational medicine,  Dr 
S, confirmed hell be unable to return and he received his occupational pension  early.
His autism  spectrum disorder,  although  not diagnosed  until more recently, and 
mental health problems have affected him for a long time and its unfair  to ignore this. 
Dr Ss report referred to difficulties these caused  while  he was still working. He thinks  
the effect of his family problems on his mental health have been underestimated and 
says some of the treatment options mentioned werent offered to him.
Its unfair to rely on the 2013 psychological  report from chartered educational  
psychologist, Ms W, as she wasnt required  to comment on his ability to do his job. 
Although she has said in her recent correspondence with us that she recognised  
autistic traits at the time.
Ref: DRN62627692Avivas actions havent been transparent, for example it hasnt disclosed the name of 
its medical adviser.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Gs health problems and I realise hes 
continuing to go through  a very difficult time.
Mr G has made detailed  and extensive  submissions in support of his complaint  and Ive read 
and considered everything  hes sent us very carefully, including  his comments  about the 
various rules  and regulations hes referred to. I understand why Mr G believes all of his 
comments are very important, but I havent necessarily tried to address  every point hes 
raised in this decision. Ive instead  concentrated on the key issues that I think  are central to 
the outcome,  as Im required to do in meeting my responsibility to reach  a fair and 
reasonable decision that takes account of all the circumstances as well as the law and any 
relevant rules and regulations.
Where Mr G thinks I havent  specifically addressed an issue, its because  I dont think its 
relevant to the outcome.  For example,  he has said he thinks Aviva breached the Consumer  
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations  2008.  But these dont appear relevant here as 
they relate to misleading and aggressive sales tactics by businesses  and this complaint is 
about the response to his claim rather than how the policy was sold.  In any event, the 
regulations dont provide a basis for individual consumers to seek  compensation, rather  they 
are something that would be enforced by Trading Standards or other regulators. 
Mr G has also said that he thinks I have a responsibility to safeguard  the interests of 
vulnerable people like him and hes provided information published by a local council that he 
got from a show he attended to support that. I appreciate why hes raised  this point,  but I 
think his comments suggest  he may not have interpreted the situation quite correctly.  I do 
have a responsibility under the Equality Act 2010 to make  reasonable adjustments  for 
people with disabilities  if required. This would  include making sure I explain the reasons for 
my decision  in a way that can be understood. It could  also mean making reasonable 
adjustments to our processes  to make it easier  for a consumer to communicate  with us.
But these  considerations dont have  an impact on my consideration of the actual merits of a 
complaint. My role is instead to reach an independent and impartial decision taking account 
of the all the evidence provided  by both parties  and the relevant law, rules and regulations.  I 
dont have a duty to safeguard or favour either  partys interests  over the other.  If I did favour  
either partys interests in that way, that would compromise my ability to reach an 
independent and impartial decision.  In other  words, Mr Gs difficulties dont mean Im 
required to uphold his complaint if I dont  think the evidence supports that conclusion.
the policy lapse
I understand Mr G paid his policy premium  by direct debit and this arrangement  continued 
without issue until 2014 when Aviva was unable  to collect the payment. In circumstances 
where a payment is missed, section 1 of the policy terms  says:
Ref: DRN62627693(d) Thirty days grace is allowed for the payment  of each  Premium  after the first. 
Should a claim arise during this period, the unpaid Premium will be deducted from 
any Benefit payable.
(e) If any Premium  is not paid on the due date or within the thirty days grace allowed, 
the Policy will be cancelled and all Benefits and Options under it will cease.
So I think the policy is clear that if a premium goes unpaid for more than 30 days, Aviva will 
cancel it and the cover will end. This is common practice in the industry and most policies 
offered by Aviva and other insurers operate in the same way.
Aviva has provided a copy of a letter it says it sent to Mr G on 7 March  2014. This explains it 
hadnt been able to collect the monthly premium and what hed need  to do to continue with 
the policy. Its also provided a copy of a letter dated  8 April 2014. This explains that because  
it hadnt heard from him, Aviva had stopped  his cover. It also explains he had a short  period 
of time in which he could  restart it and what hed need to do. The letters appear to be 
correctly addressed and I think  the fact Aviva has been able to provide copies is compelling 
evidence they were sent.
For his policy to continue, the terms required Mr G to continue paying premiums.  By 
cancelling his cover  after payment had been outstanding for more  than the 30-day grace 
period, Aviva  followed the policy terms. I think the copy  letters its provided also show  it 
made reasonable efforts to tell Mr G what was happening and what he could do to continue  
with his cover.
I note Mr G has said premiums werent  paid because of fraud on his account and thats 
clearly very unfortunate. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest Aviva  was made aware  of this. 
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied it was entitled to cancel his cover when it did.
the claim
policy definition 
For a TPD claim  to be paid, the policy terms say the following definition  has to be met:
Total Permanent Disablement  (occurring prior to the policy  anniversary  before  
attaining age 60)
Total Permanent Disablement can be defined  in either of the following ways:
i.The life assured  is unable to follow his/her normal occupation as a result of 
sickness or accident and will, in the reasonable opinion of the Companys 
medical adviser, permanently continue to be unable to follow  his/her normal 
occupation, taking  into account  current medical  knowledge and technology.
ii. The life assured  is unable to independently  perform three  or more  Activities of 
Daily Living  as a result of sickness or accident  and will, in the reasonable 
opinion of the Companys medical adviser, permanently continue  to be 
unable to independently perform three or more Activities of Daily Living, 
taking into account current medical knowledge  and technology.
Ref: DRN62627694The definition applied to your Policy will depend upon your occupation,  and is 
specified in the Schedule.
The second  part of the definition refers to the policyholders ability to carry out very basic  
daily tasks on their own, with the use of aids if necessary, including  walking from one room 
to another at home,  getting in and out of a bed or chair, and washing, dressing  and feeding  
himself. Ive seen nothing to suggest  Mr G couldnt  carry out three or more of these tasks on 
his own while his cover  was still in place, so Im assessing his claim against the first part of 
the definition.
For a claim to be paid, the policy requires Mr G to be totally and permanently  unable to do 
his normal occupation.  This isnt an easy requirement to satisfy and means not only must he 
be totally unable to carry out his normal job. But also that this is likely to be a permanent 
situation with no realistic prospect of recovery sufficient to enable a return. 
When he applied for the policy, Mr Gs application  said he was a referral order co-ordinator 
for local government and I understand he was in the same role when he last worked in 2010.  
So this is the role against which Ive assessed  the medical evidence to consider whether he 
can reasonably  have been  said to have been  totally and permanently unable  to do it.
Mr Gs claim is more complicated to some extent because its retrospective. The policy is no 
longer in force and Aviva werent covering him after it ended.  So to conclude  his claim was 
payable, Id need to be satisfied the evidence shows hed reached  the point where he was 
totally and permanently unable to carry out the role of a referral order  co-ordinator before the 
policy ended in April 2014.
I appreciate a lot has happened since 2014 and it may be that Mr Gs claim would be 
payable now, based on his current situation, if the policy was still in force  and he claimed 
today. But thats  not what Im considering.  I have  to assess the claim as if it was made 
before the policy ended and, as the policy  says,  taking  account of the current medical 
knowledge at that time. It may be that Mr Gs condition has deteriorated since  2014 and/or 
that other  medical  evidence has become available that shows he wouldnt ever have been 
able to return to his job. But that doesnt  necessarily mean the claim should be paid based 
on what was known  at the time the cover  was still in place.
So to be clear, Im assessing the claim as if it had been made before the policy  ended in 
2014 and based on the medical evidence available  at that time.  In other words, for me to say 
its payable, Id need to be satisfied the medical  and other evidence available before the 
policy ended in April 2014 shows  Mr G had already  reached the point where  he should have 
been considered totally  and permanently  incapable  of carrying out his normal  job.
medical and other evidence
I understand Mr G left his job when  he was made  redundant  in 2010. He says hes been 
unable to work since then and I understand hes received state benefits during that time. 
This is something Im aware of, but its important to recognise that state benefits are 
assessed against different criteria   in particular, many dont require the claimant to be 
permanently unable to work  and it doesnt automatically follow that he also satisfied the 
criteria for a TPD claim.
Ref: DRN62627695To assess whether  he did meet the criteria for TPD benefit before the policy ended and 
based on the information known at that time, Ive carefully considered what  Mr G has told us 
about the various health problems hes faced alongside the available  medical records. 
Mr Gs records  show he had a number of physical health issues  before his policy  ended, 
including liver problems,  Bells palsy, bowel problems, Barratts  oesophagus and left-sided 
weakness. But I dont  think theres sufficient medical  evidence  to show  these issues   either  
in isolation or in combination - meant he could reasonably have been said to be totally and 
permanently unable to do his job by 2014. For example, the medical records  indicate  liver 
test results had returned to normal by 2015,  bowel problems were intermittent and while he 
received treatment for Bells palsy in 2013,  no further problems were reported until 2016.
In his 2017 report concluding  Mr G wouldnt be able to return to his former job, Dr S 
described his diabetes with peripheral neuropathy and the affect this had. But it does seem 
this condition got worse  over time.  I note neuropathy wasnt  diagnosed until after the policy  
ended and I dont  think the medical evidence that would have been available in 2014 
demonstrates his symptoms had progressed  to the point where  they would have prevented 
him from doing his job at that time. Dr S said this problem ultimately meant Mr G had to stop 
driving, which was an important part of the job, but his report (based on his assessment in 
November 2017) says he only reached  that point  three years earlier,  which  would have been 
after the policy ended in April 2014.
Mr G has also experienced  significant problems with his mental  health.  In particular, hes 
referred to depressive  disorder, histrionic personality disorder, autism spectrum disorder 
(formerly Aspergers) and adjustment  disorder.
In putting forward  the view that his claim should  be paid, Mr G has put much emphasis on 
his autism spectrum disorder. And according to Dr Ss 2017  report,  this had an impact  on his 
other problems also. For example, Dr S said it would have  meant counselling and talking 
therapies wouldnt have  been expected to help with his depression. 
Mr Gs autism has clearly  had a significant  effect on his life, but its important to recognise  it 
wasnt diagnosed  until after the policy ended. That means Aviva wouldnt have known about 
it and couldnt  have taken it into account  if it had been considering  a claim in 2014, so its not 
appropriate for me to rely on it now. As Ive said above, I must assess  the claim based  on 
the information that would have been available  in 2014. In recent comments to us that Mr G 
has seen, I note Ms W said that when she saw him in 2013  she felt he may have what she 
described as mild  autistic traits. Mr G refused  consent for me to see the whole of Ms Ws 
report, but theres nothing in the parts  Ive seen to indicate a formal diagnosis of autism was 
made at that time and he hasnt suggested otherwise.
Mr G has referred  to Ms Ws report from 2013  as evidence his personality disorder was 
known about before the policy ended. Although in more recent correspondence with our 
investigator, that Mr G has seen,  she says she didnt make  a diagnosis  and that would have 
needed to be confirmed by a psychiatrist. I appreciate Ms W didnt comment  on Mr Gs 
ability to work, but I havent considered that to be detrimental to his claim because  she 
wasnt asked to. 
The reason  Im not concluding Mr Gs personality disorder was sufficient for the claim to be 
paid is because I havent seen anything in any of the available medical evidence to confirm a 
personality disorder   whether formally diagnosed  or not  should have been  considered  to 
Ref: DRN62627696permanently prevent him from doing his normal job before  the policy ended in 2014.  I dont 
think theres any evidence  to show his adjustment disorder had that affect either.
From the evidence presented to me, I think it was reasonable for Avivas medical adviser to 
conclude the most  prominent issue (that had been diagnosed at least)  for Mr G in the period 
before the policy ended was his depressive  disorder.  And I can see these problems would 
have been compounded by redundancy, complex  health issues and other very traumatic  
events in his personal  life. I think there  might have  been an argument  in 2014 for saying a 
combination of these  factors  meant he was totally unable to do his job at that time. But I 
dont think the evidence shows this should  have been considered  to be a permanent 
situation.
The issue  of whether Mr G would ever be able to return  to his job and should be granted 
early access  to his pension on ill-health grounds  was considered before Dr Ss report  in 
2017. Most notably  in reports by Dr T in October  2015 and Dr E in January 2016. Both were  
occupational health physicians,  whose reports stated they were considering the following 
question:
As an independent advisor I am required  by the Local Government  Pension Scheme 
Regulations 2013 to determine  whether  [Mr G] is permanently incapable of 
discharging efficiently his former job as Referral Order Coordinator at [employer 
name] due to ill health or infirmity of body  or mind.
The regulations define permanently incapable  as a person  being  more likely than not 
to be incapable,  until at the earliest, their 65th birthday.
To conclude  Mr Gs pension should be paid early,  both reports also describe the first issue 
that was considered as follows:
The first condition is that the member is, as a result  of ill-health or infirmity of mind  or 
body, permanently incapable of discharging efficiently the duties of the employment 
the member was engaged in.
In answer to this question, Dr T said:
In order to satisfy the first condition, all appropriate  treatment for the illness which  
could, on the balance of probabilities, be expected to improve the condition  such  that 
a return to work would  be reasonable, must have been completed.  None of the 
evidence I have been provided with leads me to conclude that he is currently  unfit for 
his former  employment. If his depression  is severe  enough to prevent him from 
working at present, then I would expect him to be moved onto the next level of 
treatment, for example  changing to an alternative antidepressant, counselling or 
specialist referral. On balance of probability,  this more intense  treatment  of his 
symptoms would result in sufficient recovery to return to his former employment. The 
first condition for ill-health  retirement is therefore not satisfied
Dr E said:
In order to satisfy the first condition, all appropriate  treatment for the illness must 
have been completed. Based on my assessment of the medical evidence at the time 
of the assessment, on the balance of probability,  he would not be deemed as 
Ref: DRN62627697permanently unfit for his previous post.  In my opinion, condition  1 of the Local 
Government Pension Scheme has not been satisfied.
These reports consider  issues very similar to those I need to address. They  show Dr T and 
Dr E were aware of the complex, multiple  problems Mr G had and I believe they offer a 
useful insight into whether any inability to carry out his normal job should  have  been  
considered permanent at that time.  I appreciate the assessments post-date  the lapse of Mr 
Gs policy, but they are quite close chronologically.  If the medical evidence available in 2015 
didnt show Mr G was permanently unable  to do his job at that time, I think  it would be 
difficult to conclude that situation  was any different before the policy ended in 2014.
Dr Ts report refers to potential  treatment  options,  particularly for Mr Gs depression. These  
included changing  to alternative medication and counselling. Dr Ss more recent report  
suggests counselling wouldnt have worked  due to his autism,  but that information  wouldnt 
have been available in 2014 as Ive already discussed. Based on the information that would 
have been available before the policy ended, I think the conclusions of Avivas medical 
officer that there was still a prospect  his overall state  of mental and physical  health  could 
improve sufficiently to allow him to be able to do his job again was reasonable. Particularly  
as some of the very traumatic issues hed been experiencing in his life would hopefully  ease 
over time.
Dr S reached a different  conclusion in 2017.  His report indicates  this this was in large part 
due to the fact he felt Mr G met the criteria  for autism spectrum disorder, although he 
acknowledged that hadnt previously been  diagnosed. As Ive already explained, I dont think 
I can reasonably base my assessment on conditions that werent  diagnosed until sometime  
after the policy ended.
Taking everything into account,  I think it would have been fair and reasonable for anyone  
assessing Mr Gs TPD claim in 2014  to conclude he hadnt met the policy  criteria  for 
permanent disablement and that there  were  reasonable  treatment options available that 
might enable him to return to his job in the future. I note Mr G says these treatments werent  
offered and thats an issue  between him and his doctors that I cant  comment  on here.  But 
the fact other options were available certainly  would have been  relevant to a consideration of 
his claim.  Im conscious his condition doesnt  seem to have improved significantly and that 
more recent  developments, most notably  Dr Ss comments about autism  spectrum disorder, 
indicate some of those  treatments might not have  worked. But none of this information would 
have been available if the claim  had been  assessed  before the policy  ended and its not 
appropriate to base my decision on it for that reason.  
finally
I realise Mr G isnt satisfied with the way Aviva handled some  aspects  of his retrospective 
claim. While I understand the points hes making, Im satisfied it took appropriate  steps to 
consider the claim  and that the conclusions it reached, after assessing the medical  evidence  
that would  have been available if a claim had been  made before the policy ended in 2014, 
were fair and reasonable. I realise Mr G is disappointed Aviva didnt tell him everything he 
wanted to know,  particularly the name of its medical  adviser, but it wasnt required to 
disclose that information and its entitled to protect the identities of those it works  with.
I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to Mr G and isnt what  he was 
hoping to hear. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  the medical evidence 
available before the policy ended  shows he met the policy criteria for a successful TPD claim 
Ref: DRN62627698at that time. If Aviva had assessed  a claim at that time, I think it would have been reasonable 
to conclude there was a realistic prospect hed recover to the point where hed be fit to return 
to his normal job at some point in the future and therefore that his disability (as defined in the 
policy at least) wasnt permanent. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6262769