K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance  SE is responsible  for poor service under  
a home  emergency  insurance policy.
background
Mrs W had a policy that covered the central  heating  system at home. As she shared the 
home with Mr W, I think he also had the benefit  of the policy.  But it excluded the cost of 
draining or refilling  the system. And there was a £50.00 excess.
Great Lakes was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Great  
Lakes or the insurer I include  call-handlers, engineers  and others for whose actions I hold 
Great Lakes responsible.
Mr W called  for help with a radiator that wasnt working. He paid the £50.00  excess. He 
complained that the insurer only did a temporary  fix of the thermostatic radiator valve 
(TRV) and declined to replace it unless he paid £50.40 for draining the system.
Initially our investigator recommended that the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  the 
policy excluded the cost of draining  the entire system. He didnt think  it excluded the cost of 
draining a single faulty radiator - which was what he thought was required for Mr W. So the 
investigator recommended that Great Lakes should  cover the cost of £50.40 for the draining 
of the faulty radiator.
Great Lakes disagreed with the investigators  opinion. It said,  in summary, that with any 
radiator repair or replacement, it would always drain down the full system.
The investigator changed his opinion. He didnt recommend that the complaint should  be 
upheld. He thought that the policy clearly didnt cover the cost of draining  down the system.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
Great Lakes should at least offer some compensation for wasting his time on phone 
calls and providing conflicting information about whether he was covered.
The £50.00  excess plus the £50.40 for the drain down will cost £100.40 when he 
could book the job through a regular plumber  for £90.00  to £110.00.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On about 31 October  2018 Mr W told his insurer the radiator wasnt  working. Im not satisfied 
with the insurers  response. It gave Mr W some conflicting information. I think it accepts  that 
one of its call-handlers said he would be covered. But another  said the policy didnt cover 
radiators that werent leaking. And that overlooked the fact that the policy did cover  TRVs.
Ref: DRN64562552But Im satisfied that the insurer did enough  to put that right. It agreed to send an engineer.
From what  Mr W has said, he took a day off work  to be at home for the engineer on about 29 
November. The engineer freed  the sticky TRV and left it working.  But he recommended a 
new one  which he didnt  have available. The insurer then questioned whether a new one 
was really necessary.
In the event, Mr W reported that the TRV stuck again on about 6 December.
But the policy didnt  cover the cost of draining  down or re-filling  the system  which  the 
insurer put at £50.40.  And I think the insurer quite quickly made that position clear, including  
in its final response letter.
I accept that the combination of the policy exclusion and the policy excess  makes  it 
unattractive for Mr W to pursue his claim under the policy.
But keeping in mind  the terms of the policy, I dont find that the insurer treated Mr and Mrs W 
unfairly by the position it took. I dont  find it fair and reasonable  to order the insurer  to do any 
more in response to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6456255