K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss P complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc has refused to pay their cancellation 
claim under their travel insurance policy with it. 
My references to AXA include its agents.  
background
In August  2016  Mr M and Miss P booked a family holiday for the following year. Four days  
before they were  due to travel  Mr M bought  travel  insurance with AXA.  Two days  before their 
travel date Miss P was diagnosed  with an anxiety disorder. She wasnt  fit to travel and so 
they cancelled  the trip. They made  a claim to AXA.
AXA turned down the claim, giving a number of reasons. But in brief summary it says that 
Miss P had started to experience problems related to the anxiety disorder  in the month  
before they bought the insurance policy. It said they could reasonably have known  she might 
be unable to travel, and their claim wasnt covered. Mr M and Miss P came to us. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She ultimately concluded that AXA had fairly 
turned down the claim, based on medical  evidence that suggested  Miss Ps symptoms  had 
started the month  before  travel. Mr M and Miss P strongly disagreed  so the complaints 
come to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised the complaint very briefly, but Ive considered all the evidence. Ive been  
sorry to hear about Miss Ps anxiety  disorder and the circumstances leading up to their 
claim.
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mr M and Miss P I must be impartial  in weighing  up the 
evidence. Ive done that and Im sorry to disappoint  them further, but I think  AXA fairly 
declined their claim. Ill explain why, and in doing so Ill focus on what I think  are the central  
issues. 
The key policy exclusion says that AXA wont cover any claims arising directly  or indirectly  
from Circumstances known to you before you purchased this insurance or at the time of 
booking any trip which  could reasonably have been  expected to lead to cancellation  or 
curtailment of the trip. This isnt an unusual exclusion  in an insurance  policy  and we dont 
consider its unreasonable. 
Mr M has explained that hed not bought travel insurance at the time of booking the holiday 
because hed thought insurance was something he and Miss P would need only when they 
were actually out of the country.
Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ms genuine reasons for buying the insurance when he did. But 
I think the weight  of medical evidence shows that Miss P was experiencing problems directly 
linked to the anxiety disorder before they bought the policy, and that this was known to them.
Ref: DRN69519412Mr M and Miss P argue  that they didnt know Miss P might  be unable  to travel.  Although she 
had some concerns  they thought the relaxation  of the holiday might help. Theyve pointed 
out the medical staff made some mistakes with the dates, which  have been  corrected.  Also, 
Miss P was still working  at the time they bought  the insurance and until just before  the 
holiday cancellation. The correct medical  certificate says that her symptoms began on the 
date she stopped working and that she couldnt have known that she might  not be able to 
travel before this. 
Ive taken into account Mr M and Miss Ps comments. But I think  the weight of the medical 
evidence, even as corrected is that Miss P started having anxiety disorder related problems 
following the events  mentioned in the medical notes and her consultants  letters. These 
events were affecting her day-to-day life, even though she continued to go to work.  The 
medical evidence  is that since  a key event shed been experiencing difficulty  sleeping, was 
feeling sick before going to work, and was struggling  to go to work. She felt panicky and on 
edge, and not safe at work. Her appetite had been affected. 
Miss P described how she was feeling to her doctors following the events that caused her 
the most  concern. Those events were before the date Mr M bought the insurance.  Mr M says 
that they thought shed be able to travel. But Ive taken into account the location and nature 
of the events that were causing  her such distress. I think AXA fairly concluded that there 
were circumstances known to Mr M and Miss P which  might  reasonably  have been expected 
to lead to a cancellation claim. So I think AXA was entitled to decline their claim.
Mr M has explained that family members had their claim paid, which he thinks shows  that 
AXA is being  unfair. I do see his point but this doesnt mean AXA was wrong  to turn down 
their claim. Its possible that their familys policy was bought before the events that led to 
Miss Ps claim. But in any event I can decide  only the merits of Mr M and Miss Ps complaint, 
and for the reasons Ive given Im afraid I dont uphold it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2019.  
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6951941