K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Evergreen  Finance  London Limited trading as Moneyboat.co.uk  lent 
her money that she couldnt afford.
background
Mrs M took out three  instalment loans with Moneyboat between August 2016 and July 2017.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mrs Ms complaint  be upheld. Although he didnt think 
that Moneyboat  carried out adequate checks  before  agreeing any of the loans,  Mrs M wasnt 
able to provide  any bank  statements or bills. This meant that the adjudicator couldnt say 
what better checks wouldve shown.
Mrs M disagrees  with the adjudicators recommendation but hasnt said why. Mrs M hasnt 
asked me to consider any additional information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneyboat was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to carry out checks  to decide  
whether Mrs M could afford to pay the loans back.  These checks needed  to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount to be repaid, the length of the agreement and any borrowing 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks it had to do.
Mrs Ms first loan from Moneyboat  was for £250.  Mrs M was expected her to repay  this loan 
over six months. Moneyboat has given us evidence that it asked  Mrs M about her income 
and living  costs, including her regular financial commitments. Based on the information  that 
Mrs M gave,  it looked as though she had more than £700  of disposable income.
However, Moneyboat  has also given  us the results  of credit checks that it carried  out. At the 
time of loan one, the credit check shows at least one County Court Judgment  (CCJ),  nine 
accounts opened and a large number of searches. I think that the results  shouldve led 
Moneybox to ask more  questions about Mrs Ms finances than it did. Moneyboat shouldve 
been asking Mrs M whether she had any other  short term lending commitments. As I dont 
have any evidence to suggest that it did this, I dont think  Moneyboats checks went far 
enough.
By loans  two and three, the pattern of borrowing as well as the results of Moneyboats  
further credit  checks shouldve reasonably prompted Moneyboat  to try and gather a 
comprehensive view of Mrs Ms finances to make  sure that she could afford to repay the 
loans without borrowing  elsewhere.
One of the ways that Moneyboat couldve tried to verify  the information that Mrs M gave, was 
to ask for bank statements. 
We have asked Mrs Ms representative for copy bank  statements but it hasnt supplied  any. 
As I dont have the bank statements or any other evidence such  as bills or receipts,  I cant  
say what Moneyboat wouldve discovered with the kinds of checks that I think were  
proportionate before loans one to three. This means that I cant  uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN67926782my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6792678