K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains against Barclays  Bank UK PLC, (referred to as Barclays or the business) 
about his experience of the Smart Investor Platform.  
In summary,  Mr J says:
Barclays failed to set up his nominated bank account. 
It provided him with an incorrect negative  balance.  
It failed to provide  the correct tax information in relation to his Antofagasta dividends.
It displayed incorrect online communication. 
It called his mobile number when it shouldnt  have. 
background 
In my provisional decision of 15 March  2021, a copy of which is quoted  below and forms part 
of this final decision, I upheld the complaint  and said Barclays should pay Mr J £1,374.13 
compensation, less any money already paid, in relation to this complaint.
Barclays responded and accepted my provisional decision (PD). It had no further points to 
add. 
Mr J also responded and said that he was minded to accept  my PD. In short,  he made the 
following observations:
He received a copy of the share certificates for the two holdings  that remained with 
Barclays that should enable him to cease dealing in due course.
One ombudsman  said that Subject Access Requests (SARs) are within  the 
jurisdiction of our service, if Im saying no, I need  to be clear  on the point in which 
case hed feel obliged  to reject  my PD. 
In any event, he is minded to accept my PD subject to the following:
oThat a final decision (that he quoted) is correct and that our service  can 
consider a SAR as part of whether Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably 
when dealing with the customer and the service it gave. 
oThe sum of £1,374  being correct without under calculating any of the amounts 
upheld from various complaints. 
oHe can bring further complaints against  Barclays if there is new material 
relating to previous complaints or evidence.  Such evidence is likely to come 
from the (bulky) bundle  of SAR documentation  hes working through.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision  remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Despite Mr Js response, I dont consider that any material  new points have been raised and 
the key points remain the same, and have been considered  by me, in my provisional 
decision. 
Ref: DRN60822322In other  words, Im satisfied Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision, 
therefore I still think the complaint should be upheld. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr J 
£1,374.13 compensation, less any money  already  paid, in relation to this complaint. 
The sum is made up of the following amount: 
£225 compensation in relation to the nominated bank account  issue.
£119.13 which is the difference in price  for the re-purchase of the Prudential  shares 
and £30 for costs.  
£250  rather  than £200   compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by positing the negative account balance and allowing  Mr J to withdraw double  what  
he shouldve been allowed to. 
£650  rather  than £500   compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced with the Antofagasta dividends. 
£100 for mistakenly calling Mr Js mobile.  
I apologise if what I said about the SAR wasnt clear. In my PD, I said:   
Im also aware  that some  (historic) complaint points have either  been  (separately) dealt with 
or considered not within our remit to consider,  such as Barclays compliance with a Subject 
Access Request (SAR) and matters involving the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
So, what  I meant was that I thought the SAR issue was/is being  dealt with separately.  Its not 
the subject of this decision, so I hope this clarifies the matter. Im mindful that Mr J had 
previously agreed for the SAR issue to be dealt  with separately.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr Js research into the matter,  its not necessary  for me to comment 
upon the decision of an ombudsman in a different case thats  not to do with this complaint. 
Final decisions, made based on information  available at the time, generally bring our 
involvement in the matter  to an end. I hope  this wont dissuade Mr J from accepting the 
outcome of my final decision. However, its entirely  up to him whether (or not) he accepts my 
final decision. 
If he decides not to accept my decision this doesnt mean that the complaint will remain 
open. It just means  that my decision isnt binding  on Barclays so cant  be enforced if 
Barclays decides not to pay the redress I have awarded. 
my final decision
For the reason  set out above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr J redress as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 May 2021.
Dara Islam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN60822323COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr J complains against  Barclays Bank UK PLC, (referred to as Barclays or the business) about  his 
experience of the Smart Investor Platform. 
In summary, Mr J says:
Barclays failed to set up his nominated  bank  account.  
It provided him with an incorrect negative balance.  
It failed to provide the correct tax information  in relation to his Antofagasta  dividends.
It displayed incorrect online  communication. 
It called his mobile  number when it shouldnt  have. 
background
This is a case  with a long and protracted history that began in 2018,  it now comprises several 
thousand pages of detailed submissions. I dont consider it practical or necessary  to repeat the many 
points that have been  made and developed  over time  I have  considered only the points that are 
relevant and unresolved.  
Barclays at the outset  in 2018 didnt  uphold the complaint but offered compensation  as a gesture of 
good will which Mr J duly rejected. Over time, it has come to accept  responsibility  for the complaint  
points and has in due course (incrementally) increased  its offer of compensation, that Mr J still 
disagrees with.  
Im also aware  that some  (historic) complaint points have either been (separately) dealt  with or 
considered not within our remit to consider, such as Barclays compliance with a Subject Access 
Request (SAR) and matters  involving the Information  Commissioners Office  (ICO).
One of our investigators recently considered the outstanding complaint points and thought  they 
should be upheld, which she has done from the outset. However, she thinks  her recommendation  for 
redress (which Barclays now accepts) is fair and reasonable and adequately reflects  the distress and 
inconvenience experienced by Mr J. 
I understand that Mr J is willing to accept some of the offers made  by Barclays but would  be willing  to 
draw a line under the complaint (including  the SARs issues) for another  £600 compensation. But 
Barclays has refused to offer anything more than what the investigator has suggested.  
Mr J has subsequently  provided a number  of points to be considered by me, in addition to his 
previous submissions/emails  that hed also like me to consider. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.    
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree  with the investigators uphold  for much the same reasons. Im satisfied that 
Barclays has made errors in relation to the complaint points listed above,  which Im aware it now 
accepts. 
As Barclays has upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is whether  (or not) the redress 
proposed by the investigator  and largely accepted by Barclays  is fair and reasonable.  
Ref: DRN60822324Having done so, on the face of the evidence, on balance, subject to any further submissions,  
provisionally I think Mr Js redress  should  be increased  to reflect  the extent of the errors  by Barclays 
and what I consider to be the significant distress and inconvenience caused to him.  
 
But before I explain why, I think  its still important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr J has 
about this matter.  Hes provided very detailed  submissions to support  the complaint,  which Ive read 
and considered carefully. However,  I hope he wont take the fact my findings  focus on what  I consider 
to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
I know that Mr J wants definitive answers to many (if not all) of his questions,  but the purpose of my 
decision isnt to address every single  point  raised under a separate subject heading,  its not what  Im 
required to do in order to reach  a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean  Im not considering the pertinent points. 
I appreciate Mr J might  feel our service has been biased  towards  the business, but I dont agree, and 
Im sorry he feels  that way. The investigator suggesting that one of Barclays earlier offers of redress 
was fair and reasonable  was based on the available  evidence at the time, its not because she 
favoured Barclays over Mr J. 
My role is to consider  the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision based on the facts  of the case. Its not my role to punish  
the business for any regulatory breaches either, thats the role of the industry regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority (the FCA). My role is to decide if Barclays has done anything wrong and where 
appropriate award  redress  for any financial  losses for which its responsible and/or compensation  for 
any distress  and inconvenience caused.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant  law, regulation and best industry 
practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely  than not to have happened. 
Im aware Mr J has numerous questions about why the business acted  in the way that it did, or whether 
we really believe  its reasons given are genuine, but my not seeking to answer these questions doesnt 
prevent me from reaching a decision in this case. 
Im aware that there is a SAR in operation, again that isnt an issue I need to consider before reaching 
a decision in this case. Neither is the topic of any service complaint. 
I note that the nominated  back account issue began in or around  March 2018, when Mr J first contacted  
Barclays from overseas  about  changing  his nominated bank  account. I note he was told to send an 
original bank  statement to a postal address in Glasgow, but Barclays failed to notify him that it needed to 
verify his signature and or that itd need a certified  copy of his original statement in order to do so. 
Unsurprisingly Mr Js request was subsequently declined   on more than one occasion   despite him 
trying his best to move  things along. He was only successful after numerous calls and letters,  several 
months later and towards the end of 2018.
I think  that Barclays, from the very outset, shouldve made clear  the process  that Mr J needed  to 
follow in order to successfully nominate a bank account,  rather than drip feed him information  each 
time he came across a stumbling block. I also understand  that Barclays couldve completed the 
process much sooner  and over the phone as an alternative to the postal  service but didnt inform Mr J 
that he could do this. 
That notwithstanding,  I think Barclays  in the reasonable  exercise  of its legitimate commercial  
judgement  was entitled  to impose certain conditions  in the way that it dealt with non-UK/overseas 
clients. 
Ref: DRN60822325In the circumstances I think Barclays offer to pay Mr J £225 compensation  in recognition  of the poor 
service it provided  comprised of £100 offered  in June 2018, a further £75 offered in October 2018 
and an additional  £50 mistakenly offered but subsequently agreed to  is broadly fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances.  Im not minded  to ask Barclays to pay any more  compensation  in relation to this 
issue. 
In relation to positing of the negative account balance, I note that Barclays  now  having re-reviewed  
its position  accepts  that it made an error. It said that it had a systems error and shouldve ringfenced 
the dividend but instead  allowed Mr J to withdraw the same amount twice.  Whilst I agree with Mr J 
that it shouldnt have happened, Im mindful  that it was a systems error. 
To put things right Barclays has, quite rightly, agreed to pay Mr J the difference in price in the sum of 
£119.13, a figure which he provided, when he re-purchased the Prudential shares  which were sold to 
cover the negative balance. 
I understand that Barclays has also offered to pay Mr J £200 compensation by way of apology,  and 
£30 costs. I think Barclays should pay another £50 compensation  to better  reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience caused   in terms of the shares he had to repurchase and calculations hes had to 
make  which I think is broadly fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. That notwithstanding, Mr J 
is free to report any ongoing  concerns he has with the shares  to the FCA.
Im mindful that Mr J now wants  to remove his remining  holdings from Barclays and has been 
provided with a share certificate in order to enable him to do this. 
Im mindful of the problems experienced  by Mr J with the Antofagasta dividends that also began  with 
a call in July 2018. I understand that Barclays, having  re-reviewed its position, now accepts that 
there were issues  with the Consolidated Tax Certificate (CTC), and that it was wrong to deny this. 
Im conscious  that hitherto it persistently denied  any wrong doing until very recently. So, its now not 
necessary for me to go through all the detail  of what happened and why. Nevertheless, I understand 
that on the 2015/16 (CTC)  from Barclays Stockbrokers  the Antofagasta dividends were shown  as 
overseas  which was incorrect  they shouldve been shown as UK dividends. This ultimately led to 
Mr J providing HMRC with the incorrect information. 
Im familiar with the contents of the various  emails  from Barclays regarding this point  mainly 
concerning its denials and latterly its acceptance of wrongdoing having obtained advice  from its own 
tax advisers. I also note the detailed explanation given by Mr J with regards to his tax calculations.  
And I appreciate  him taking the time to amplify some  of the finer points of distress and inconvenience 
caused. But whether (or not) this issue effected  other Barclays customers, and I appreciate he 
doesnt want  others going  through  what he went  through,  in this instance Im only considering the 
actions of Barclays in relation to him. 
Barclays has offered to pay Mr J £500 compensation for the error,  which I acknowledge is a 
significant sum, but I think it should increase  this sum by another  £150. In my opinion, this better  
reflects the distress and inconvenience  experienced  by Mr J trying to work things out and worrying  
about his tax position with HMRC and the Irish Revenue  Tax Returns. 
Im conscious  that he was not only supplied with incorrect information, over several years, but also 
went on to provide this information to the HMRC over the same  period. I note that it was only through  
his own persistence and perseverance that Barclays agreed to re-review its decision, and the error  
came to light.   
I appreciate Barclays  werent tax advisers  for Mr J, but the information  that it provided  led him to 
(incorrectly) declare his Antofagasta  dividends  on his UK tax returns. I note Mr J remains  very 
concerned that HMRC might  still query the position.  
Ref: DRN60822326I note Barclays have  offered  to provide HMRC (and I assume any similar  relevant  body) written 
confirmation of the errors  in case  Mr J needs this information in future   and cover any fines or 
penalties that he might incur  as a result. So, in the circumstances, I dont think Barclays should pay 
Mr J any more compensation other than the £650 Ive recommended. 
I also note that Mr J disclosed the error  to HMRC  in his 2017/2018 tax return and made clear  that he 
didnt intend to amend  any earlier returns unless  required  to do so by HMRC.  Thus far, I cant  see that 
Mr Js been penalized for this or that hes suffered any financial loss. 
I understand that Mr J no longer thinks the issues surrounding the online notification on his 
communications page is relevant, as per his email dated December 2020. I note Mr J was 
experiencing difficulties in or around May 2019 when  he logged onto his account   seeing  
notifications but not being able to view messages  that Barclays accepts were  caused as a result of 
difficulties with the cloud IT part of their business. No additional compensation  has been offered  and 
none sought in relation to this, which I think is fair.   
I understand that Mr J is content with compensation offered by Barclays in the sum of £100 for calling 
on his mobile phone  when  it shouldnt have.  Im conscious that Mr J agrees  that it wasnt done on 
purpose and was a genuine mistake that Barclays made in its effort  to try and get hold of him.    
I cant  specifically look into the complaint handling aspect  of the complaint by Mr J because its not a 
regulated activity, so not within our jurisdiction. Whilst I acknowledge the experience  of Mr J its not for 
me to advise Barclays on its complaints handling process. 
Our service is free to all consumers and doesnt require them to spend  money. In other words, Mr J 
was free to refer the complaint to our service after receiving a final response letter(s) from Barclays or 
eight weeks after complaining to the business and not receiving a response. It wasnt necessary for 
him to spend any money in bringing his complaint to our service, but I dont think thats what  Mr J is 
talking about.  
I appreciate it cost Mr J a significant amount of time to pursue this complaint. I note he says that he 
spent a lot of time researching  issues  before Barclays would even accept its fault and had it not been 
for the SAR,  he wouldnt  have had the evidence  to support his points. Whilst I appreciate this, overall, 
I think  the increased compensation for the errors and the trouble and upset caused is broadly fair and 
reasonable.  
I hope the £1,374.13,  less any money already paid, will go some way to compensating  him for the 
distress and inconvenience  experienced.
The sum is made up of the following amount:  
£225  compensation in relation to the nominated bank account issue.
£119.13 which is the difference in price for the re-purchase of the Prudential shares and £30 
for costs.  
£250   rather than £200  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by 
positing the negative account balance  and allowing  Mr J to withdraw double what he 
shouldve been allowed  to. 
£650   rather than £500  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  experienced with 
the Antofagasta dividends. 
£100  for mistakenly calling Mr Js mobile. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold 
this complaint. 
Ref: DRN60822327Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr J £1,374.13  compensation,  less any money  already  paid, in 
relation to this complaint.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6082232