K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) shouldnt have lent 
him money  in 2017.
background 
In November 2017, Likely Loans  lent Mr C £700.  Mr C agreed  to repay this, with interest, 
over 12 months. The monthly repayment was £74.55, and so if the loan ran to its term, Mr C 
would need to pay £894.60 in total.
But after making  the first payment, in December  2017, Mr C fell into arrears.  He didnt make 
any further payment  until May 2018,  when  he began making payments of £50 a month.
Mr C thinks Likely Loans acted irresponsibly by lending  him this money
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 February  2020.  In my provisional 
decision, I said Id considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what was fair and 
reasonable I had taken  into account  relevant law and regulations;  regulators rules,  guidance  
and standards;  codes  of practice,  and what I consider to have been good  industry  practice at 
the time.  Having done so I said that, based on what Id seen, I thought the complaint should 
be upheld:
As Likely Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement, it needed to assess  
Mr Cs creditworthiness, including the potential for the commitments under the 
agreement to adversely impact  Mr Cs financial situation, and the ability  for Mr C to 
make repayments as they fell due over the term of the loan.
In particular, the regulators rules that applied to Likely  Loans  at the time said it 
needed to take reasonable steps  to assess Mr Cs ability to meet the repayments  
under the agreement  in a sustainable manner  without  Mr C incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse consequences. This included  Mr C 
being able to make the payments on time while meeting all his other  reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments.
Likely Loans told us it used an automated decision  making  process to decide  
whether or not to lend.  Its affordability  and creditworthiness checks  were  based on 
the information Mr C provided as part of the application, together  with information  
from a credit reference agency.
Having looked  at this information, I noted  that Mr C had a relatively high consumer 
indebtedness score. I thought this suggested  that, despite his relatively high income,  
he also had a relatively high level of indebtedness and so was at greater risk of 
having difficulty making payments. I also noted  that despite over £14,000  of total 
debt, Likely Loanss records showed  Mr C was only paying around 2% of his income  
towards this.
So I felt that this raised  questions about  the affordability of the arrangement,  and that 
further checks of Mr Cs circumstances would have been proportionate. And it also 
didnt look as though Likely Loans had asked Mr C about  his expenditure or day to 
day expenses.
Ref: DRN64886022I therefore considered  what would most likely have happened  if Likely  Loans  had 
carried out further checks.
I noted that the credit report which Likely Loans said underlay  the information  it used 
when assessing  credit showed two defaulted home  credit accounts  despite modest 
repayments compared to his income. This strongly suggested that Mr C was already 
having difficulties  paying his debts  when due. I also noted that Mr C had a number of 
credit cards and revolving credit  accounts - which  were close to the credit  limit. The 
report also showed three further  accounts in default and a number of accounts in 
arrears.
Mr C had also sent us some bank statements. These showed Mr C received 
payments from two short term credit providers  in the eight days prior to arranging  this 
loan. The statement also show that Mr C frequently spent more  than his monthly 
salary, and that Mr C had paid unarranged overdraft  fees or missed  direct debit fees 
in each of the four months  prior to this loan.
Taken together, I thought the information Id seen showed that Mr C was struggling to 
fund his basic everyday expenses. Despite his relatively  high salary,  he appeared to 
have relied on short  term loans  to fund his day to day expenses.  I thought there was 
a real prospect  that Mr C would need  to rely on further borrowing to afford  his 
repayments towards this loan. I didnt think these further payments were  sustainable.  
And so I didnt think Likely Loans  should  have lent Mr C the money.
To put things right, I said I thought Likely Loans  should remove  the interest  fees and charges 
from the outstanding balance and treat any payments as though  theyd been repayments  of 
the principal. If there was an outstanding  balance,  Likely Loans  should agree an affordable 
payment plan with Mr C.
I also said Likely Loans should remove any adverse information recorded  on Mr Cs credit 
file in relation  to the loan once the loan is settled.
I said Id consider any further comments I received  before 24 March  2020.
Mr C has replied. He says that he agrees  with my provisional findings.
Likely Loans has also replied. It says that it accepts my findings. It says the debt has been  
sold to a third party.  If Mr C agrees,  it will arrange to adjust the account so any interest will 
be removed from the loan. It says that Mr C should contact the third party  to discuss an 
affordable arrangement with them. It also says it will remove any negative information about  
the loan from Mr Cs credit file.
I have therefore  considered  the complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr C and Likely Loans have agreed with my provisional findings. I therefore reach the 
same conclusions for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN64886023Likely Loans says it will adjust the account by removing all interest applied to the account   
so Mr C only has to repay  the amount he borrowed.  Mr C borrowed £700.  Likely  Loans says 
that, as of 20 March  2020, Mr C has paid £374.55.  As the debt has been sold to a third 
party, it says Mr C can contact the third party to arrange an affordable  repayment  plan.  In 
addition, it says any negative information recorded by Likely  Loans regarding  this loan will be 
removed from his credit file.
In all the circumstances, I think this is a fair resolution to Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
I direct  Oakbrook Finance Limited to put things  right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6488602