K820x#14complaint
The personal representatives of the late Mr Ls estate complain about Scottish Widows 
Limited (Scottish Widows).  Theyre unhappy with how Scottish Widows settled death 
benefits under Mr Ls Retirement Account  and have concerns about Scottish Widows 
decision making process.
background
The personal representatives of Mr Ls estate are the late Mr Ls sister  who Ill refer to as 
Mrs M and his brother  in law who Ill refer to as Mr M. For simplicity Ill primarily be 
referring to Mrs M, which should  be understood to include Mr M.
Mr L had several pensions with different providers and in November 2018 he transferred and 
consolidated his pensions into a Retirement  Account  (plan)  with Scottish  Widows.  
On 15 December 2018 Mr L unexpectedly passed  away. Scottish Widows became aware of 
this on 27 December 2018 when it received a copy of Mr Ls death certificate. Following this 
it issued the necessary Beneficiary forms to Mrs M. 
Scottish Widows  received Beneficiary forms from Mrs M on 14 January 2019. Mrs M 
mentioned Mr Ls two daughters and his partner  who Ill refer to as Ms H, as potential  
beneficiaries under  his plan. A copy of Mr Ls Will was also provided. 
Scottish Widows  later wrote to Ms H. And Ms H provided Scottish Widows with evidence of 
her financial  dependency  on Mr L.
Following this Scottish Widows wrote to Ms H confirming it had exercised its discretion  and 
determined her to be the beneficiary of the proceeds of Mr Ls plan. Payment authority forms 
were enclosed and Ms H returned  these to Scottish  Widows so the payment could be made. 
Unaware of Scottish Widows decision Mrs M contacted it for an update.  Scottish Widows 
explained that a decision had already been made  about Mr Ls death benefits  and that all of 
this would be paid to Ms H. Shocked by this news, Mrs M complained. 
Scottish Widows  considered the matter and sent its final response to Mrs Ms complaint. In 
summary it said:
it acted as the trustee for a pension when a policyholder passed away and pensions  
were deemed separate from an estate
in the absence of a nomination form, which wouldve  shown Mr Ls wishes for his 
pension, it relied on what was provided by Mrs M when  she sent in the Beneficiary 
form
the Beneficiary form showed  that Mr Ls partner, Ms H, lived at the same  address as 
him when he passed away  and his adult children did not
it contacted Mrs M and Ms H, but only Ms H was able to prove any level of what  it 
deemed as dependency
its decision had been thoroughly reviewed  and the correct  decision had been made
it appreciated that its failure to contact  Mrs M with its decision wouldve  caused 
additional upset  and for this it enclosed a cheque for £150
Unhappy with Scottish Widows response Mrs M referred the matter to our service.
Ref: DRN60305182One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
as Mr L didnt place  his plan in trust his death  benefits were held in a discretionary 
trust. Because  of this Scottish Widows as Scheme  Administrator could use its 
discretion to decide who death  benefits were  paid to
when Mr L passed away  his daughters werent  minors and didnt live with him. 
Because of this they werent  considered financially  dependent on Mr L.
Scottish Widows  took reasonable steps  to identify  potential beneficiaries. And it was 
after evidence was received that it decided to pay Mr Ls death  benefits to his partner
while Mr L may have left everything to his daughters in his Will, and Scottish  Widows  
wouldve taken this into account, it still had discretion over who the death benefits 
were paid to
it was unfortunate  Scottish Widows hadnt  made Mr and Mrs M aware of the outcome 
of its decision and she could  appreciate  the upset this wouldve caused.  So she felt 
the £150 Scottish Widows had offered  in respect of this was fair
she didnt think Scottish  Widows  had exercised its discretion in an unreasonable  way
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigator  and in summary said:
they were disappointed and frustrated  by our investigators conclusions  as well as 
Scottish Widows  actions
Scottish Widows  had made a decision about the payment of Mr Ls death  benefits on 
the basis of limited evidence and without  any real knowledge of the people in his 
family 
Mr L had for many  years  sent both of his daughters £20 per month and this shouldve 
formed part of Scottish Widows  decision making
Scottish Widows  actions had resulted in Mr Ls daughters having to fight for 
everything that was rightfully theirs. Scottish  Widows  payment  to Ms H had set a 
precedent and led to Ms H making a claim on Mr Ls personal assets and estate
since the death benefit payment had been made to Ms H no one in their family had 
received any contact from her unless  it was via her legal representative.  This had 
caused deep anxiety and hurt
Scottish Widows  actions were the exact  opposite to what  Mr L wanted and it had 
behaved incompetently  
Scottish Widows  had shown a complete lack of respect for them  as executors
As not agreement could  be reached the matter was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken serious note of the correspondence, arguments and comments  made  by the involved 
parties, Ive limited my response to what I consider to be the issues central  to this complaint. 
That is to say whether  Scottish Widows was entitled to use its discretion in deciding  to whom 
the late Mr Ls death benefit would  be paid. And if it was, did it exercise  this discretion in a 
fair and reasonable way.
Ref: DRN60305183Where discretion is given  to a decision maker  here Scottish  Widows  it can be difficult  to 
challenge how that discretion has been exercised. A discretionary decision maker  needs to 
understand the legal  position, take into account  all relevant and no irrelevant factors and 
reach a decision  which  isnt perverse. In looking at Scottish Widows  decision it isnt for me 
to say if its the same decision Id have made   what I need to think  about is if the decision is 
one which  a reasonable decision maker,  acting reasonably, could have  reached.
I have considerable  sympathy for Mr and Mrs M and their family- especially the late Mr Ls 
daughters. Im sure that dealing with this complaint which stems from Mr L very sadly  
passing away has been both difficult and deeply upsetting. From Mr and Mrs Ms 
submissions, its clear to me their prevailing  concern is ensuring Mr Ls daughters  are 
sufficiently provided  for and that they receive  what they consider  Mr  Ls daughters  are 
entitled to under their late fathers plan.
The applicable  Scheme  Rules set out that Scottish  Widows  can decide to whom death 
benefits will be paid. Specifically the rules say:
8.1 If a member dies before pension  date, the scheme administrator may, as soon as 
practicable and subject to rule 8.11, use the members fund at its discretion:
for the benefit  of one or more of:
a dependant of the member;
a nominee of the member;
any persons  or individual referred to in rule 8.10
and:
in respect of the following  benefits,  at the discretion of the scheme  administrator:
either:
(1)secure a dependants or nominees annuity at the discretion of the scheme 
administrator through the purchase  of an annuity  (), or
(2)pay a lump sum under rule 8.10 as an uncrystallised funds lump sum death benefit.
Regarding what  is meant  by Dependant the Scheme Rules  say:
Dependant means any of the following to a member:
(a)a person who was the spouse  of the member either  at the pension date or the date of 
the members death ()
(b)a child of the member  who
(i) has not reached the age of 23, or
(ii) has reached that age and, in the opinion of the scheme administrator, was at 
the date of the members death  dependent on the member because  of 
physical or mental impairment;
(c)a person who was not the spouse of the member at the date of the members death 
and is not a child of the member if, in the opinion of the scheme  administrator, at the 
date of the members  death:
(i) the person  was financially dependent  on the member;
Ref: DRN60305184(ii) the persons  financial relationship with the member was one of mutual  
dependence, or 
(iii) the person  was dependent  on the member because of physical or mental 
impairment.
Based on the above Im satisfied Scottish Widows was acting in line with the Scheme Rules 
in using its discretion  to pay death  benefits  to whomever it decided was a rightful recipient. 
As Mr and Mrs M have said theyre aware, when Mr L passed away the death  benefits under 
his plan didnt  automatically fall within his estate. And as Mr L didnt place his plan in trust 
before he died his death benefits  were  held in discretionary trust. Because  of this the 
Scheme Administrator,  Scottish Widows could use its discretion and decide to whom any 
death benefits would be paid. 
Death benefits  are sometimes set up under a discretionary trust because if the policyholder  
had a complete  and total say in who received  the benefits, they could potentially be liable for 
inheritance tax.
The Scheme Rules did allow Mr L to provide a nominee for death  benefits  under his plan. Mr 
L didnt provide  this before he sadly passed away, but even if he had, while  Scottish Widows 
wouldve considered  this, it wouldnt ultimately have  been obliged to follow  it.
It wasnt Mr and Mrs Ms role as executors of Mr Ls estate to decide where death benefits 
under Mr Ls plan were  paid and on what basis. This was Scottish Widows responsibility. 
And as such it was for Scottish Widows to satisfy  itself who, based on the available  
evidence, was the rightful beneficiary and to what extent. I should say that Scottish Widows 
wasnt required to disclose the evidence it received from the late Mr Ls partner to determine 
her death  benefit  entitlement.  
Turning now to whether  Scottish Widows took reasonable  steps in using  its discretion  to pay 
the death benefits under Mr Ls plan.  
Scottish Widows  considered the late Mr Ls partner and his daughters  as potential 
beneficiaries. It did this having reviewed the beneficiaries form and information it was 
provided with by Mrs M. And it was on the basis of what this showed  along with evidence  
later provided by Ms H that Scottish Widows  determined the financial  dependency of Ms H 
and the proportion of the death benefit  payment to be allocated to her. Mr Ls daughters 
were both over the age of 23 and not considered  dependants in line with the Scheme Rules  
applicable to Mr Ls plan.
In my view, it was firstly reasonable  for Scottish  Widows to identify the death benefit 
beneficiary on the basis of which potential beneficiary (if any) was financially dependent on 
the late Mr L. And secondly, that the evidence from Mr Ls partner that she met this test was 
reasonably applied by Scottish Widows in reaching its decision about the level of payment 
paid.
I note that Scottish  Widows Beneficiaries Form  said:
Please note the pension policy proceeds  are payable at the discretion of Scottish Widows in 
accordance with the Scheme Rules. Please complete this form in order  that consideration 
may be given to the claim ()
Ref: DRN60305185I think Scottish Widows  was sufficiently clear about its process to determine  who received 
the death benefit.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs M may feel very firmly that Scottish Widows has made the 
wrong decision but I cannot  second-guess its decision or substitute my own finding as to 
who the death benefit payment should be made  to and by how much. Scottish Widows is 
entitled under the Scheme Rules to make  that decision and it is not for me to review  that 
decision. 
From Mr and Mrs Ms submissions to this service  Its clear to me they have enduring 
concerns about  what they feel are the wider implications of the death  benefit payment being 
made to Ms H. I dont  intend to make  any specific comment on or detailed reference  to these 
concerns and Ive done this deliberately to ensure none of the parties are identified  by this 
decision. Im mindful also that while representations  have  been made about Ms H and her 
actions since receiving  the death  benefit  payment, I havent seen anything to suggest  
Scottish Widows  has been provided with any persuasive evidence which ought reasonably 
to have caused it to reach a different decision regarding the death benefit  payment.
Turning now to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  about Scottish Widows failing to inform  them  of 
the decision it reached regarding the payment of the death  benefits. Scottish Widows doesnt 
dispute that it failed to promptly inform  Mr and Mrs M of its decision.  Indeed  I agree that it 
shouldve acted more  proactively regarding  this. 
Given the circumstances I think it was more than reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to be kept 
informed about  the claim.  They should never have been put in the position where they were  
chasing matters  up with Scottish Widows  only to be unexpectedly informed that a decision 
had already been made. Like our investigator,  I can imagine  Scottish  Widows news came as 
a shock to Mr and Mrs M- especially given how emotive and difficult the situation  already 
was. Because  of this I think it was appropriate for Scottish Widows to offer Mr and Mrs M 
£150. I consider  the scale of this award appropriate in the circumstances and that it fairly  
reflects the trouble upset  caused. Im unable  to conclude  a greater award  would be 
appropriate in the circumstances. 
While Im not directing  Scottish Widows to make the award I understand Mr and Mrs M 
would like, I do appreciate their strength  of feeling  regarding the matter and I am genuinely 
sorry to hear of the impact they say this has had. 
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr and Mrs Ms sincerity in bringing this complaint to our 
service and I understand that my decision  is likely to come  as a disappointment,  but for the 
reasons Ive explained I wont be asking  Scottish Widows to do anything further. Because I 
think it exercised its discretion appropriately,  there isnt really anything more  I can add and I 
cant fairly uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr and Mrs M to decide  
whether they would now like to accept  Scottish  Widows  Limiteds offer of £150 
compensation for not updating  them about  the death  benefit  claim when it shouldve.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019.
Ref: DRN60305186Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6030518