K820x#14complaint
Mrs C took out a packaged  bank account  with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in 
1999 and she says it was mis-sold.
background
Mrs C took out a fee free account with NatWest in 1989.
She then upgraded to an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in August 1999  for which  she paid 
a monthly fee.
Mrs C migrated to a Select Platinum Account with a monthly fee in July 2015. 
She upgraded to a Reward Platinum Account in June 2016.
Mrs C then returned to a fee free Reward  Account in July 2017.
Mrs C says that the AGA  was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that NatWest mis-sold the AGA.  Mrs C disagrees so the case 
has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C has made it clear  that her complaint  is only about the original AGA sale in 
August 1999,  so this is all I need  to look at in this decision. 
She says that she only took out the AGA because NatWest told her she had to in order  to 
keep the overdraft facility she had on the account. NatWest disagrees and says Mrs C 
already had a fee free account with an overdraft  facility and she took out the AGA because 
she wanted the benefits it had told her about.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Mrs C knew she had a choice whether to take out the 
AGA, and whether  she chose to do so.
I dont doubt Mrs Cs honest recollections;  she has been consistent in what  shes said.  But I 
think her memory is mistaken.  Mrs C had used a fee free bank account with an overdraft 
facility for many  years before she took out her AGA. So at the time of the sale, I think  its 
more likely than not that she was aware  that there  was a range of fee free bank accounts  
with overdrafts available from both NatWest and other banks  and financial institutions.  So if 
NatWest had told her she had to have  a fee paid account to keep her overdraft  I think she 
would have queried this. I think if shed wanted to keep a fee free account with an overdraft 
facility, she would have  explored what was available  in the market  and taken  out one of the 
many on offer.
Ref: DRN64004172So in my view Mrs C knew she had a choice  whether to pay a fee for the AGA or not and 
she chose to take it out. 
NatWest says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AGA to Mrs C personally or advise  her to take it out. Mrs C says that NatWest did advise her 
to take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mrs Cs needs and circumstances or suitability checks  to show  me clearly 
that NatWest did make  a personal recommendation to her. 
I accept its possible that in providing  information  to Mrs C and explaining the benefits of the 
AGA, NatWest may have  said or implied that it was good idea to take out the AGA. But this 
isnt the same as giving a personal  recommendation.  And based on this services knowledge 
of NatWests sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that NatWest sold the 
AGA to Mrs C on an information only basis.
 
This means  NatWest did not have to ensure that the AGA  was suitable for Mrs C, but it did 
have to provide  Mrs C with good  enough  information  about the AGA so she could make an 
informed decision about whether to have it or not.
And I think it did. I say this for the following reasons.
The AGA  benefits  in August 1999 appear to have included travel insurance, commission free 
foreign currency, extended  warranty cover, purchase protection; better interest  rates for 
overdrafts, loans, and mortgages, discounts on home insurance  and a range of other offers. 
The initial cost was £6 per month.
NatWest has provided evidence that it spoke to Mrs C on the phone  on 22 July 1999 about  
the AGA as part of a telemarketing campaign.  Mrs C then went into her branch on 5 August 
1999 to open the AGA.
I think its likely NatWest wouldve described  the AGA to Mrs C at some length as it was trying 
to sell the account to her. I think the AGA would have been of interest to Mrs C. Mrs C has 
said that she wanted an overdraft facility, so the better interest  rate on the AGAs overdraft 
was an immediate benefit for her. NatWest  has also provided evidence  that she subsequently 
benefitted from the better interest rates on loans she took out.
And I can see nothing in Mrs Cs personal  circumstances that would have stopped  her using 
the AGAs benefits;  it was for her to decide what she wanted to use.
So, in my view Mrs C knew she had a choice  about the AGA and she chose to take it out. And 
I dont think there is anything NatWest didnt tell her that would have changed her mind and 
put her off taking out the AGA.
Ref: DRN64004173my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6400417