K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why. 
Mr M says that the PPI was sold to him in one of BOSs branches. But BOS say its records  
show the card and PPI were taken out by Mr M completing a postal application. Having 
looked at the application  form and because it says to sign and return  the form, I think the 
sale most likely  took place by post.  
Mr M says the PPI was added without his consent. BOS  have  given me a copy  of Mr Ms 
signed credit  card application  form. And on it I can see theres a separate section for the 
PPI. After some wording which starts with Yes, I would like to take advantage of the peace 
of mind offered  by Credit Card Repayments Cover a box has been ticked  next to where  it 
says Please tick the box to enrol. 
So given how I think the sale took place and what  Ive seen on the postal application form, I 
think BOS made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this.
BOS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about his sick pay and 
savings. But Mr M hasnt  been able to give me any independent evidence  of his savings 
despite my request to his representatives.  So as I said I would, Im making  my decision on 
the information I do have. 
Im mindful that the sale took place over 15 years ago, but without any evidence  I cant 
uphold his complaint on this point.  And given  his sick pay benefits, I still think  he wouldve 
found the PPI useful.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN69676612This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mr M now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6967661