K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about Saga  Services Limited  actions in connection with his motor  
insurance policy.
background
Mr P had a policy arranged by Saga. He changed  his car on the policy and Saga charged 
him an additional premium of around  £243.  That was the equivalent of an annual premium  of 
around £510. After  he paid the additional premium  Mr P found another policy  offered online 
by Saga with a yearly premium of around  £343.
Mr P complained about the difference between the premiums. Saga told Mr P that the two 
policies were underwritten  by different insurers. And that the lower premium attracted  new 
customer discounts that Mr P wasn't entitled  to for changing the car on his existing policy. 
But as a gesture  of goodwill it said it would  offer Mr P a pro rata refund of the difference 
between the policies of about  £133.
Mr P remained unhappy  and said hed also complained about the charges Saga had 
applied. He brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought  that Saga had dealt with 
Mr P fairly. Mr P didnt  agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ps made a number of detailed  points.  But in this decision I will 
focus on the key points  that I see as being outstanding following our investigators 
assessment of Mr Ps complaint.
the difference in premiums
Mr P thinks  its unfair that Saga offers policies based  on different tariffs. Im assuming that 
when he refers to a tariff Mr P is referring to the premiums Saga charges. It might  help if I 
explain that Saga is an insurance broker. That means it arranges  and administers  policies 
but it doesn't actually provide the cover. Thats done  by the insurers  of the specific  policies  
Saga sells. And the insurers are separate businesses  to Saga, although I understand Saga 
doe play a part in the pricing of the policies  it sells.
Saga told Mr P that the policy he found online was different to his existing policy. It was 
underwritten by a different  insurer  and that affected  the price.  In other words, it's not a case  
of Saga having  two separate published  and unpublished  tariffs as Mr P thinks but simply  
that Sagas offered different policies meant that the rates were different. I also need  to make 
it clear that when Saga changed the car on the policy it simply amended Mr Ps existing 
policy, it didnt issue a new policy. So Mr P wouldnt have  qualified for any new customer 
discount at that point  that were available  to new customers online.
Its also worth clarifying that exactly how insurers calculate their premiums  is commercially 
sensitive information.  So that's not something  they want their competitors to learn about. 
And Im not aware of any insurer  that publicly reveals how theyve calculated  their premiums. 
So I don't think  this is a case  of Saga  running one premium it tells people about and another  
Ref: DRN69216352thats somehow  hidden,  as Mr Ps suggested. The difference in premiums is because the 
policies arent the same  and offered at different times under different circumstances.   
Saga told Mr P that the online policy would have  attracted a new customer discount, which  
he wouldnt  have qualified for with his existing  policy. Mr P felt that he was being denied  the 
opportunity of receiving  a lower additional  premium  for his existing premium because  he 
couldnt change  his car online. But hes mistaken.  Simply  taking an action online didnt mean  
automatically pay a lower price. It was the fact it was a different policy, sold online as a new 
customer, that led to the difference in price.   
And, its fairly common for insurers and brokers to offer policies for online customers,  often 
through comparison websites, that attract new business discounts  that aren't available  to 
their existing customers at renewal or when making mid-term adjustments.
Im also aware that most insurers will review  their risk assessments  and how much they 
charge to cover that risk - regularly. That means  the quotes they provide might change  on a 
daily basis. So it's not unusual for consumers to find policies available  online for more  or less 
than theyre already paying. But thats a matter of insurers commercial judgement and I 
don't find it unfair. 
So I don't think  the fact that Mr P could find a cheaper premium online than the additional 
premium Saga charged him when  he changed his car meant  that Saga did anything wrong. 
But, in any event, Saga  chose  to offer Mr P a proportionate  refund  of the difference between  
the two premiums. And I find that offer to be fair. 
charges applying to the policy
Mr P thinks  that Saga has unfairly  applied two charges to the policy when he changed the 
car on it. Those  are a £25 admin  fee for changing  the car on the policy  and a £20 renewal 
fee. But I think Mr Ps misunderstood  how those charges are presented in the policy  
information. 
When Saga  sent Mr P his policy renewal documents in September  2017, the policy schedule 
showed that his annual  fee included a £20 renewal arrangement  fee as part of his annual 
charge. The documents also show that if Mr P made  an amendment to his policy Saga 
would charge a £25 admin fee.
After Mr P changed the car on the policy Saga sent him amended  documents. The amended 
schedule showed  the cost of Mr Ps policy based on an annualised (yearly) basis,  rather 
than just the proportion of the costs for the remainder of the policy  year. Those total costs  
show the £25 admin  fee because Mr P changed  the car on his existing policy.  And it also 
shows the £20 renewal arrangement fee that hed already paid. But I don't  think  that means 
that Saga charged Mr P the £20 renewal fee twice. Its documents  simply show that one 
charge of £20 formed part of his yearly charge. So when it showed him the yearly  price for 
his new car, that included  the £20 arrangement fee, although Mr P had already paid that 
sum when  he renewed his policy. So I dont  think Saga applied charges unfairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN69216353Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6921635