K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance policy.
background
Miss H took out a credit card with Barclays in 1997. At the same time she agreed to buy a 
PPI policy  which would  have helped cover the repayments on her card for up to 12 months  
at a time if she couldnt work due to an accident, sickness  or unemployment.  It also provided 
life cover for the outstanding  balance.
Miss H says she doesnt remember applying for the PPI and that if shed understood the 
policy she wouldnt have bought it.
Our adjudicator thought that Barclays had made  an unsuitable recommendation for Miss H 
and that the policy wasnt suitable  for her circumstances. Our adjudicator thought  that if Miss 
H had understood  the policy exclusions she wouldnt have bought  it.
Barclays disagreed,  so the case has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into consideration  when  deciding  this case.  Having done so, I am upholding Miss Hs 
complaint. I will explain  why.
The sale of the PPI took place in a branch of Barclays in 1997. Barclays recommended  the 
policy to Miss H, so it had a duty to take reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for her. 
Barclays has detailed the steps it says would  have happened before a recommendation was 
made, although it hasnt  been able to provide evidence that this happened  as described. 
Miss H had a serious chronic medical condition at the time of sale. The policy terms would 
have excluded this condition and any related condition from cover. The policy terms say that 
it wouldnt pay for:
 any claim that is the result of any sickness, disease, condition or injury which  you knew 
about of which you asked about or received advice, treatment or counselling for from any 
doctor during  the 12 months  immediately before the sale.
The nature of Miss Hs condition is such that it could cause numerous  serious  related 
conditions throughout her life. And her condition in itself could result in serous ill health at 
any time. All of these  conditions or events would have been  excluded from cover. If Barclays  
had made  a recommendation to Miss H to buy the PPI in spite  of her condition I would have 
expected it to have done  so with great caution and to have recorded the reasons why it still 
considered the policy  to be suitable. Barclays has not been able to provide evidence  that it 
did this and has not suggested that the recommendation was made  with caution.
Ref: DRN62158402If Miss H had understood that the most  likely reason for her to need  to make a claim was 
excluded from cover, I dont think she would have  bought the policy.  I dont  think  Barclays 
did enough to make sure the policy was suitable for her and I uphold Miss Hs complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should do the following:
A.Barclays should  find out how much Miss H would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Miss H owed when  she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss H made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Miss H would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Miss H would  have  owed each month without PPI  
Miss H paid more  than enough  to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss H paid.  And it should  carry  on paying interest until the point 
when Miss H wouldve owed  Barclays something on her card. The interest rate should 
be 8% a year.
D.Barclay should tell Miss H what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Miss 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Miss Hs complaint and direct Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as 
described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2021.
S. Allbeury
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6215840