K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd wrongly  advised him to invest  too much  of his 
money, £25,000, in an unsuitably  risky investment in 1988, and without pointing out the 
potential downsides.
 
background
In 1998 Mr H was 55, semi-retired and had £19,000  invested in unit trusts and £30,000  on 
deposit. These savings  came from a lump sum pension pay-out.  The advisor recorded that 
he wanted to take a cautious approach with any investment and recommended the business 
cautious managed  fund.
An investigator at this service felt this was a reasonable recommendation with the fund being  
as described. But he didnt believe Mr H should  have been  advised to invest as much as 
£25,000, which resulted in all but £5,000  being  exposed to investment risk i.e. 90% of his 
money. 
He didnt accept  Zurichs  view that because Mr H still had a healthy  monthly  income this 
justified investing  so much of his money.  He noted that Mr H was a relatively inexperienced 
investor and was semi-retired. 
Overall, he felt Mr H should have only been advised to invest £10,000. This would have left 
him with £29,000  in risk-based assets  and £20,000 free from risk. Compensation should  
therefore reflect this, using this services standard  redress  formula.
Mr H accepted the investigators recommended  compensation.
Zurich did not agree, reiterating its view that Mr H had sufficient surplus monthly income  
such that his cash  funds would replenish quickly. It also noted that he didnt withdraw  any 
money for the first six years so obviously had no urgent needs for these funds. He was also 
due to inherit substantially more money  in the near future. It didnt accept he was an 
inexperienced investor  given he had unit trust funds  and a foreign property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for the same  reasons.
I am very surprised that Zurich maintains it was appropriate to recommend that anyone,  let 
alone a semi-retired  55 year old, put 90% of their money in funds/assets  when they at risk of 
investment loss. This was the result of the advice to Mr H in 1998.  Even  if his ongoing 
income or a future lump  sum meant his cash reserves were likely to increase  at some point, 
this does not justify  leaving  him with so little in risk-free sources at the time. If/when he had 
accrued significantly  more capital, this would  have been the appropriate  time to reconsider 
whether to increase his invested sum,  not before this money  had materialised.
I also note the Fact Find records that Mr and Mrs H wanted to keep £15,000  for rainy  day 
purposes. This recommendation  did not deliver  that objective. It also records  that Mr H had 
two objectives:  capital growth and to buy/extend  property. This recommendation left no 
scope to achieve the latter objective. If this was planned for when further  funds became 
Ref: DRN65180432available then this negates Zurichs argument  that his cash was bound to be replenished at 
some point.
Finally, I do not agree  that owning a foreign property constitutes investment experience.
fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H as close  to the position 
he would  probably  now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied  that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Hs circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what Zurich should  do
To compensate Mr H fairly  it should:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs investment with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
It should also pay interest as set out below.
      Provide the details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest  awarded.
investment 
name and 
amountstatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Cautious  
Managed 
Fund
-
£15,000still existsaverage rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  it should use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
Ref: DRN65180433the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted  
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point  on.
If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
it totals all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risking this part of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure given Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr H would have invested  
only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer  could 
have obtained  with little risk to their capital.
further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website  by 
searching for quoted household interest rates  and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest  & exchange  rates data / Quoted  household interest  rates / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
Some examples of how the calculation should  be carried out are available on our website 
under
Publications / Online Technical Resource / Investment / Calculating compensation in
investment complaints.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Zurich  Assurance Ltd to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6518043