K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  turned down  two claims made on his travel 
insurance policy (the policy). Mr P is being  represented by his niece.
background
For many  years Mr P had the benefit  of an annual travel insurance, as part of his building  
society account, underwritten by UKI. Under  the policy hes required to make medical 
declarations in certain circumstances  and at particular times  such as annually  and before  
booking a holiday.
In September  2018 Mr P visited  his GP, thinking he may have haemorrhoids.  He  was 
referred for further investigation.  Later that evening,  he booked and paid a deposit  for a 
holiday in May 2019. The next day he booked and paid for a holiday in September 2019. 
Very sadly, a few weeks  later,  Mr P was diagnosed bowel cancer and was advised that he 
required immediate treatment. He cancelled both holidays and sought  to claim on his travel 
insurance policy to cover  the deposits  he paid. 
UKI declined  both claims. It said Mr P didnt contact  it to make a declaration  that he was 
undergoing a medical investigation before booking either holiday. And had he done so it 
wouldve advised him that he wasnt covered under the policy until the investigations were 
complete. 
Unhappy, Mr P complained to us. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint  she didnt 
think UKI had unfairly declined his claims.  Mr P disagrees and so his complaint has now 
been passed to me to look at everything  afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And when doing  so, Ive taken into 
account the law in the area  which sets out an insurers remedies where a consumer has 
deliberately, recklessly or carelessly misrepresented the situation about  things like their pre-
existing medical conditions.
When a consumer takes out insurance   or in the case of a policy which  forms part of a
bank or building society account,  at certain  times during the lifetime  of that policy  - theyll be 
asked questions about themselves and the risks they want  to insure.  The insurer  then uses  
that information to weigh up whether it wishes to cover that risk and how much it will charge 
for doing so.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation and they must
provide the insurer  with accurate information to allow it to assess the risk.
If they dont, there are some circumstances where  an insurer may be able to avoid  the
insurance contact or only pay a proportionate part of the amount  being claimed under the
policy  but thats only if theres  been a qualifying misrepresentation.  In the absence of this,
and where the consumer  has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, the
insurer cant take any action at all, even if they were provided with the wrong information.
Ref: DRN61453892Under CIDRA, deciding  whether Mr P took reasonable care is to be done in the light
of all the relevant  circumstances. That can involve  a number of things including whether the
questions he was asked  by UKI were sufficiently clear.
UKI says Mr P wouldve been  sent yearly  reminders  setting out the main terms of the policy. 
It hasnt been  able to provide us with copies of the reminders that were sent to Mr P but it 
has provided us with a template letter which he says wouldve been sent to him. That letter 
says a summary leaflet  is enclosed, and weve been provided with a copy of that leaflet.
Its a short  document  and under the heading booking a trip?  it says: make  sure you contact 
us before you book  as the insurance automatically  excludes cover for pre-existing medical 
conditions. Details on how to do this and what we mean by pre-existing medical conditions 
are on page 17 of the travel policy
Page 17 of the policy says:
Medical statements
Call us on. to talk about your medical  circumstances. You will not be automatically 
covered for any claims directly related to a pre-existing medical condition. Call us as 
soon as possible so we can talk to you about your condition(s)  and work  out whether 
we can cover free, for an additional  premium or if we cant cover your conditions.  We 
will write to you to confirm what the phone.
At the time of opening the account or before you book a journey
(whichever is later):
You must tell us about  each  pre-existing medical  condition for any insured person. If 
you do not tell us you may not be covered. This is any medical condition for which  
you answer yes to one or more  of the  questions  below:
1) Are you under investigation, awaiting diagnosis, receiving in-patient treatment or 
are waiting to receive treatment
Pre-existing Medical  Condition is also defined  by the policy as:
any medical condition for which, at the date you became an insured person or the 
date when you booked  your journey, whichever is later, you are unable  to comply 
with the Medical  Statements on page 17 of this policy.
Because Ive only received a template of what the letter mightve looked like and no system 
notes showing when  the letter was generated and dispatched to Mr P, I dont know whether 
the letter was actually sent in this particular case.  But Mr P hasnt said he didnt receive this 
reminder, and overall, I think its more  likely  than not that it was sent. Particularly as Mr P 
declared his pre-existing  conditions to UKI in 2017, and paid an extra  premium for them  to 
be covered. So Im persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that he was aware of his 
obligation to make medical declarations.  
Given the annual  reminder specifically refers  to page 17 of the policy  and looking at the 
questions asked and the way theyre set out on that page, I think theyre reasonably  clear.
The GPs medical certificate provided  to UKI confirms Mr P consulted  them about his 
symptoms on 12 September 2018 - which was before he booked  his holiday and paid a 
Ref: DRN61453893deposit later that evening.  Mr P has told us in his complaint form that on the same day his 
doctor referred him for further  investigation. So, Im satisfied that he ought  to have made a 
medical declaration  to UKI before booking his holidays. 
When making this finding Ive taken into account that Mr P (via his niece) says he never  
considered himself to be under investigation  or referral, and if he felt that there  was anything 
sinister, he would not have proceeded to book two holidays immediately after.  I understand 
what he says but based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied he was aware that his 
symptoms had been referred for further medical investigation  albeit he wouldnt have 
known, at that stage,  that he had cancer.
By not making  a declaration in this particular case, Im persuaded that he didnt take 
reasonable care to answer the questions at page 17 of the policy  and made a qualifying  
misrepresentation. Theres nothing to suggest  that he failed to make that declaration, or 
answered the questions, recklessly - particularly  as hed made medical  declarations in past 
and had declared certain medical conditions when doing so. However, I think  the 
misrepresentation was careless. 
Ive thought about what wouldve happened if Mr P had made a declaration.  UKI says at that 
stage, it wouldve advised him that it would be unable to provide cover  for anything that was 
under medical investigation, and that he wouldve  been advised to call back when he had 
received a diagnosis and that he wouldnt be covered until then. Thats not an uncommon 
approach for insurers to take in such circumstances,  so I accept  what  UKI says about  that. 
Without knowing the results of the investigation,  Im persuaded that it wouldnt have been 
able to screen any conditions to see whether they would  be covered under the policy, and if 
they were,  whether to charge more for cover.
So Im satisfied IPA has reasonably declined the claim made on the policy  on the basis  that
he wouldve been  told that he wouldnt have been covered for anything he was under 
investigation for, had he declared that he was under  investigation immediately before 
booking  and paying a deposit for - his holidays. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020..
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6145389