K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that he hasnt been able to access his account with TSB Bank Plc (TSB) 
since he changed his name.
background 
Mr R went into his TSB branch in October  2017  to request that the name on his account be 
changed to his new name. The member  of staff took a copy of the paperwork which Mr R 
had brought with him as evidence of his change of name. This was sent off to the relevant 
department to be actioned. 
However, it couldnt be actioned because the document wasnt one of the specific 
documents which TSB recognises as evidence of a change of name.  The branch was 
informed of this the next day, but unfortunately no-one from the branch  contacted  Mr R to tell 
him.
Mr R has tried to use telephone banking in the time since  October  2017  but hasnt been  able 
to get access to his account by this method. Mr R also complains  that his TSB credit card is 
no longer active.
TSB say that Mr R should have been  told in the branch that the document wasnt  one which 
they could accept to complete a change  of name.  They  also say that the branch should have 
contacted Mr R once  they had been informed by the department dealing with the request 
that it couldnt be processed. After Mr R referred  his complaint to us, TSB have apologised 
to Mr R and offered him £50. This is offered  as compensation  for the fact that, if they had 
told Mr R in October 2017 that they couldnt accept his documentation,  he would have been 
able to use the time since then to obtain  the necessary paperwork.
As to the credit card,  TSB have  said that Mr R last used it in 2013 and that he doesnt have 
an active credit card with them at the moment.  They dont have any record of any 
applications by Mr R for a new credit  card but they have confirmed that Mr R would be 
welcome to apply for a new card (subject to the usual checks) once the issue  of his change  
of name  has been  resolved.
Our adjudicator thought that TSBs  offer was fair and that they didnt need to do any more.  
But Mr R didnt agree.  He says that the document he provided  to TSB is a lawful document 
which has been accepted by the high court and so TSB are obliged  to accept it. Mr R also 
says that, by not contacting him to let him know they couldnt accept his document,  TSB 
have, by their silence, implied that they agree  to accept it. Because  Mr R didnt accept our 
adjudicators findings,  the case has been referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R is unhappy that he hasnt been able to use telephone banking in the time since 
October 2017. TSB have explained that this is because he hasnt been able to pass security 
using his new name. This is because the account is still in Mr Rs old name,  for the reasons 
set out above.  Mr R does  still have access to his account using his old name and TSB say 
they are continuing  to send him statements in that name. So I havent seen anything to 
Ref: DRN69463212suggest that Mr R has suffered any loss as a result  of this or that he has been denied access 
to his account. What  I need to consider here is whether TSB have acted reasonably  in their 
decision not to action the change of name.
Its for TSB as a business to determine what their procedures are and that includes the 
decision as to what information they will accept to process a change  of name. They  have a 
clear policy on this and they havent  gone against it in this case. Id add that the types of 
information TSB have  said they will accept to change Mr Rs name  are very much in line with 
what other businesses  would accept too. So I think they have acted fairly here. 
TSB have  provided a list of the documents  which they can accept in order to action a change  
of name  request. This information has been  provided to Mr R by our adjudicator. If Mr R 
provides the relevant documents from that list, TSB say they will be able to action the 
change of name. Until that happens, Mr R will be able to access his account using his old 
name. That seems a reasonable approach.
Ive considered the document provided  by Mr R which he says shows that the high court  has 
accepted his new name. It is a letter from HM Courts and Tribunals Service  which  is 
addressed to Mr R using his new name. It also refers to a claim which  Mr R has issued in his 
new name. But this isnt proof of a legal name change. And its not on the list of documents 
which TSB say they can accept for a change of name request. So I dont think  its unfair of 
TSB not to accept  this as proof of a name change.
Mr R says that, by not telling him that they couldnt  accept  the document  he brought into the 
branch, TSB have  by their silence  accepted  it. Im afraid I dont agree. TSB have 
acknowledged that it was a mistake  that no-one contacted Mr R to tell him that his name 
hadnt been changed on their systems.  That is why they have apologised and offered 
compensation of £50. 
Ive considered the points Mr R has made,  but I think  £50 is a fair amount of compensation 
in this situation and I wont be asking TSB to pay more. Mr R continues to have access to his 
account using  his old details and TSB have told him what they will need from him if he still 
wants to action the change of name.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. If it has not already done so, TSB Bank Plc 
should now pay £50 to Mr R as compensation for the delay in informing him about the 
change of name request. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6946321