K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading under its Halifax  brand) deducted £2,600 
from her savings account without her authority.   
background
Mrs M has explained that, in or about  July 2008, she opened a passbook-operated savings 
account with a cheque her son had received as compensation  following a road accident. She 
withdrew most of the money  a couple  of years later and gave it to her son. But there was a 
balance still on the account, and Mrs M put the passbook away.  
Some years  later  in 2016  Mrs M found the passbook and took it to Halifax so it could be 
updated. The update included a counter  withdrawal  of £2,600 which, the bank said,  had 
been made on 16 August 2011,  leaving a balance of less than £200 on the account.  Mrs M 
said she hadnt made the withdrawal. 
Due to the passage of time, Halifax wasnt able to provide a great deal of evidence  about 
what had happened  in 2011.  It did however have a copy of the withdrawal slip completed 
when the withdrawal took place and evidence that Mrs M had made a cash machine 
withdrawal at the same branch and at around the same time the counter withdrawal had 
been made. It said the signature matched Mrs Ms and that she would have had to answer 
security questions in order to make the withdrawal. 
Mrs M didnt  accept what Halifax  said and referred  her complaint to this service. She queried 
why, if there  was money in the passbook account, she would take money out of her current  
account. She also pointed out that the printing in the passbook  when it was updated was 
very feint and said that, whilst the signature bore some resemblance  to her own, it was 
almost too perfect   suggesting it might  have been  copied.
One of our adjudicators indicated in his preliminary assessment of Mrs Ms case  that he 
thought it more likely than not that she made the withdrawal herself, but had forgotten about 
it. Mrs M asked that an ombudsman review the case.             
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons. 
It is, of course, unfortunate that there  is very little evidence available  from the time of the 
withdrawal in 2011. Thats mainly because Mrs M was only alerted to the withdrawal when 
the passbook  was updated.  It seems  the withdrawal  was made  without the passbook, so Mrs 
M had no record of it in the meantime. Thats not a criticism of Mrs M or of Halifax, and I 
mention it only to explain why my findings  are necessarily limited. The delay  may also 
explain why  as the adjudicator found  Mrs M didnt remember  withdrawing the money. 
I share  the adjudicators view that the most  likely explanation here is that Mrs M withdrew the 
money herself but doesnt recall doing so. I note that theres no dispute that she was at the 
branch at the time  because she made  a cash withdrawal at around  the same  time. Shes 
asked why she would not simply have withdrawn  all the money from the savings account.  
But that money was, as shes explained, her sons, so I think  making  a separate  withdrawal 
Ref: DRN67844142for herself  was logical.  And, if someone else had made the withdrawal without Mrs Ms 
knowledge, I might have expected them to have withdrawn the full balance  in the account. 
The fact that the money wasnt Mrs Ms might also help to explain why she doesnt recall  the 
withdrawal. And, assuming she gave the money  to her son, she wouldnt be able to identify it 
in, for example, another account.   
I note what Mrs M says about the signature. Its possible  that it wasnt  hers,  but I think its 
more likely that it was. Its also possible that branch staff were  responsible  for the 
withdrawal, but I dont believe theres any evidence on which  I could fairly conclude  thats  
what happened. 
Ive noted too what  Mrs M said about the clarity of the printing in the passbook, but dont 
accept that it suggests anything  untoward.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mrs Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs M to accept  or reject  my decision before 17 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6784414