K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  about  BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd. Hes unhappy about a 
pension transfer  it arranged for him.
background 
In 2015 Mr L took advice  from BlackStar as he wished to transfer the deferred benefits he 
held in a former employers occupational  pension scheme (OPS). He was advised to transfer 
around £150,000 into a self investment personal pension (SIPP).  Once  the transfer was 
made the specific investments were to be selected  by a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
The OPS  was a defined benefit  scheme (or final salary scheme) but Mr L has said that he 
has no complaint about  the transfer itself.
BlackStar recommended a DFM  and sent instructions to it. It said that Mr Ls funds  should  
be invested into a model portfolio in line with a risk profile of 7. This was a mistake as it 
should have said that the risk profile  it had assessed was 4.
The DFM  invested the funds into a small number of assets. Some  of these assets  have 
failed and others have become illiquid. So Mr L has lost out.
Mr L complained to this service about the DFM  which was a regulated  entity in its own right.  
This service has dealt with a number of similar  complaints from other  consumers about  the 
same DFM. The complaint was upheld but the DFM went into default  with the regulator 
which meant that the complaint had to be referred to the FSCS.  Mr L says that complaint is 
ongoing.
Mr L also complained  about BlackStar. It upheld Mr Ls complaint  in part. It agreed  to waive 
its annual charges until the complaint  with the DFM was resolved. But it said that the DFM  
was responsible for any investment loss.
Our adjudicator investigated the complaint and said it should be upheld. He said that 
BlackStar should pay investment loss by comparing two notional values. These were the 
notional value of the funds if investment had been  in line with a risk profile of 7, and the 
notional value if invested at a risk profile of 4. There would only be a loss if the lower  risk 
profile (4) had performed  better than the higher (7). But this was not actually the case by 
reference to standard industry benchmarks and was unlikely to be the case in the future 
unless there  was some significant change in investment  conditions.  
The adjudicator explained that any assessment  should be made after the complaint against 
the DFM was resolved.  But that complaint is no longer with this service.
Mr L didnt agree. He remains unhappy  that BlackStar made a mistake and also referred him 
to the DFM which invested badly and caused  him loss.
The complaint has been referred to me so that a final decision can be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the adjudicator.
Ref: DRN68432532BlackStar has always accepted that it made  a mistake in its instruction to the DFM. But the 
DFM was a regulated entity  in its own right and was responsible for the investment choices it 
made. I agree with the adjudicator that there  was a lack of diversity  in the investments it 
chose for Mr L. Also, the investments were non-mainstream and lacked liquidity.
But BlackStar did make a mistake. I agree that it is fair that it should put Mr L in the position 
he would  have been in but for that mistake. BlackStar should pay any investment loss by 
comparing two notional  values. These  should  be the notional value of the funds if investment 
had been in line with a risk profile  of 7 and the notional value if invested at a risk profile of 
4. There will only be a loss if the lower  risk profile  (4) has performed better than the higher 
risk profile of (7). I think  its fair to use a notional  valuation  as BlackStar wasnt responsible 
for the actual investments selected.
The benchmark to be applied for risk profile 7 should be the FTSE UK Private  Investors 
Income Total Return Index alone.
The benchmark to be applied for risk profile 4 should be a 50/50 combination of the FTSE 
UK Private Investors Income Total Return  Index  and the average fixed rate benchmark.
The calculation should be made at the date of this decision. But in this case,  the calculation  
is likely  to show no loss. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint about  BlackStar Wealth  Management Ltd. It 
should waive its annual  charges until the complaint with the DFM  is resolved.
It should calculate any investment loss using the formula  set out above. Its likely that this 
will show  no loss and if so no further  award  is payable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6843253