K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Chryson  Limited  gave him unsuitable advice to invest  in Contracts for 
Differences (CFDs). He said he didnt know or understand what this trading involved,  and he 
didnt understand  how likely it was that hed lose all his money.  
background
In October  2015 Mr F filled out an application  form with Chryson  and agreed  to open a CFD 
trading account  with a third party Ill call C. Mr F agreed with Chryson that it would  manage  
this account on his behalf. 
The application form had some information about Mr Fs circumstances:
He was self-employed as a bricklayer with an annual income  of £35,000. 
He had monthly outgoings of around  £1,400 and some £400,000 in his bank account. 
He had no other investments. 
The form said he was experienced trading shares and CFDs,  but had no other  
sources of income. It said he wasnt experienced in spread-betting,  futures or 
options. 
Chryson determined  that trading CFDs was suitable  for Mr F and he deposited £25,000 
initially, and a further £15,000  a short while  later. 
Shortly after opening his account with C, Mr F also signed an appointment of agent form 
with C where he gave Chryson full unrestricted  and unconditional power and authority  to 
trade on the Account. 
Chryson traded on Mr Fs account between October 2015 and for most  of 2016. 
Unfortunately Mr Fs account  was depleted,  and he was left with a negative  balance with C 
of over £4,000  which Chryson settled. 
In 2018 Mr F complained.  In short, he queried  where his money had been invested  and why 
he had lost all of it. He complained that he wasnt aware all of his money  could be lost, and 
initially also complained about the letter he received  from C which  said he owed it over 
£4,000. 
Chryson didnt think  it had done  anything  wrong.  It confirmed the debt with C had been paid 
and he wouldnt be pursued for it. In relation  to trading CFDs, it said that when Mr F opened  
his account all its documentation explained the high risk nature of trading CFDs, and Mr F 
was happy to take that risk with his money.  It said that his losses were due to the volatility  in 
the stock market at the time. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service.  One of our investigators looked  into his complaint,  
and concluded  it should be upheld. 
In short,  she didnt consider the information  which Chryson had captured  on the application 
form was accurate, and found Mr Fs submissions about his financial circumstances  at the 
time persuasive. In particular, she was satisfied that he wasnt financially able to bear the 
high risks of CFD trading, and had insufficient knowledge to understand how these risks 
could affect his investment. 
Ref: DRN60033842She also didnt agree  with Chrysons  comments, during the investigation, that the account 
was execution only and that trading was done  by a friend of Mr Fs. She said that evidence 
she had obtained  from C showed clearly that only Chryson was allowed to trade  on the 
account  and she considered the fact that it had received  over £60,000 in commission  from 
the account demonstrated that it was responsible for its management.  C had confirmed that 
Mr Fs accounts  trades reflected trades that had been placed on Chrysons master account 
 and so the investigator concluded  that Chryson had indeed been trading on Mr Fs behalf.
Chryson didnt agree  with the investigator. In short:
It said Mr F completed the application  form which contained a number of prominent 
and highlighted  risk warnings. It said that Mr F had clearly signed  to acknowledge 
he had read these and understood them, and so it wasnt fair or reasonable for the 
investigator to have ignored  this. 
It said it was entitled  to rely on the information Mr F gave it and thats what it did. This 
service had previously affirmed this in other cases. 
It said that it wasnt right for the investigator to have inferred the account would be 
managed by Chryson purely because it had asked him questions about his 
experience, objectives  and risk appetite. It said that as this was a risk product it had 
a responsibility to review  the suitability and/or appropriateness whether it was an 
execution, advisory or managed account.  It reiterated the fact that Mr F had signed 
the various forms which contained risk notices demonstrating, in Chrysons  view,  that 
he understood and accepted the risks of CFD trading. 
It reiterated that this was an execution only account and that it was being  managed  
by someone not authorised to do so on Chrysons  behalf.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. 
I should start, briefly,  by saying that Im not at all persuaded by Chrysons submissions in 
relation to the nature of the account.  In fact the evidence is absolutely  conclusive that 
Chryson was managing  Mr Fs account.  During the investigation, C has confirmed that:
Mr F was unable  to trade on his account.  It was not an execution only account. Trades were 
instructed through the Chryson control  account by its authorised users
And C also confirmed that the authorised agent  was Chryson, and that it received over 
£60,000 in commission  from trades  on Mr Fs account. 
In addition, Ive seen the appointment  of agent  form which clearly indicates Chryson would 
be the agent trading the account. I would add that it seems entirely implausible to me that Mr 
F would agree to pay Chryson commission, outlined in the application form as 0.2%  of the 
total value of the position, without receiving a service in return. 
So its clear to me that Chryson essentially advised Mr F to open a CFD trading  account, and 
agreed to manage  it on his behalf in exchange for a commission on the trades. As a result,  
Chryson was under  an obligation to ensure that trading CFDs was suitable for Mr F  by 
ensuring that CFD trading  met his investment objectives, that he would be financially able to 
Ref: DRN60033843bear any related  investment risks and that he had the necessary knowledge and experience  
in order to understand the risks involved. 
I acknowledge and accept, in principle, that Chryson  was entitled to rely on the information 
Mr F provided it. But the obligation  to provide a suitable recommendation to Mr F was a 
positive one  in other words, COBS 9 required Chryson to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that its recommendation was suitable  for Mr F. 
In looking at the answers on the form, Im not persuaded Chryson couldve done this without 
probing more into some  of the glaring inconsistencies  for instance how Mr F couldve 
accumulated £400,000  worth of cash savings in his account given his low income and 
relatively high monthly expenditure.  Or how he could claim to have knowledge and 
experience of trading shares and CFDs, but have no existing  investments  at all. In addition, 
Im not persuaded there was sufficient evidence about the level of risk Mr F was willing to 
take with this money. There  was only one possible answer on the application form  - high. 
But there was no documented discussion or explanation as to the risks of CFD trading, and 
the particular risks of a managed CFD account  by this I mean the effect of commissions  
being charged on the overall position  (not just the deposit)  each time Chryson  opened and 
closed a trade, and how this would impact on the already high risk of making significant 
losses. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr F has said about the account  opening process.  He has 
provided evidence  of his savings at the time, which were far less than the £400,000 stated 
on the form. I find this evidence persuasive.  In particular, Im not persuaded he wouldve 
chosen to lie to that extent about the amount  of cash savings in his account   given that he 
didnt lie about having any other  investments or income. 
Given these circumstances, and the lack of any meaningful and documented discussion with 
Mr F at the time about trading CFDs, Im not persuaded  this type of trading was suitable  for 
him. Im not satisfied Mr F was financially able to bear the highly likely possibility that he 
would lose his entire investment, and Im not persuaded his knowledge and experience 
allowed him to fully understand just how risky trading CFDs was. I dont underestimate the 
role of Mr Fs family  friend in opening the account and introducing him to Chryson in the first 
place. But Im satisfied  it was for Chryson  to decide, for itself,  whether this type of trading 
was suitable for Mr F and to ensure that he fully understood (not just read)  what  he was 
getting himself into. Im not persuaded it did this. And Im satisfied that if Chryson had 
properly discussed  CFD trading with Mr F, and given him suitable advice, Mr F would likely 
not have invested at all. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr F 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
Ref: DRN60033844I take the view that Mr F would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Chryson  do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, Chryson must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Chryson should  also pay interest as set out below.
Pay to Mr F £750 for the trouble and upset he was caused  by seeing his entire  
investment disappear  as a result of the unsuitable  advice Chryson  gave him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
CFD 
trading  
account 
surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate trading 
on Mr Fs 
account 
stopped8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Chryson  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Chryson totals all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ref: DRN60033845I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mr F wanted  to achieve  a reasonable return without risking any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mr F's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr F would  have invested  only in 
a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained  
with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Chryson  Limited should  pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Chryson Limited should provide details  of its calculation to Mr F in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020
..
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6003384