K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  Barclays Bank  UK Plc treated  her unfairly  because  it didnt communicate 
with her about how she was going  to pay off her mortgage or give her enough time to pay.  
background
In about July 2006 Miss G remortgaged a buy to let property to a residential mortgage with 
Barclays for around £332,500 on an interest only basis for a term of 10 years. 
When the term ended in 2016,  Miss G was unable to pay back  what she owed.
She thinks Barclays have treated her unfairly  since the term ended and in April 2019 she 
complained to Barclays about action  it took to repossess her property. She wanted more 
time to pay.
Barclays didnt uphold  her complaint, so she brought it to this service.  Our investigator didnt 
think Barclays had done anything wrong.  Because Miss G didnt  accept our investigators 
view, Ive reviewed everything afresh to come  to a final decision  about Miss Gs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Gs made a number  of complaints about  mortgages shes had with Barclays. To be 
clear, Im looking  here at the complaint Barclays responded  to in May 2019.  
Miss G was unhappy about Barclays  lack of contact with her since shed  made a complaint 
to it in November  2018; she wanted  to understand the reason for letters Barclays sent her in 
April 2019; she felt shed  explained to Barclays her plan to repay the mortgage; and she 
wanted to know  why a customer  care marker had been added to her profile in Barclays  
records. 
Miss Gs November  2018 complaint is separate from the complaint Im looking at here.  
Barclays was right to tell Miss G that, and I wont comment  on it further.
Barclays has explained it put a customer care marker on Miss Gs file when she told it she 
had ill-health. This meant any representative of Barclays who was in contact with Miss G 
would bear in mind  she might have a vulnerability.  I think this was a reasonable thing for 
Barclays to do and it was in line with its obligations  to treat its customers  fairly. I think  it 
shows Barclays took seriously the health  issues Miss G had told it about.
The starting point  for considering Miss Gs complaint  about action Barclays has taken at the 
end of the mortgage term is that, under the terms and conditions of her mortgage, Miss G 
agreed to repay the money  shed borrowed when the term came  to an end in July 2016. 
Where a borrower cant pay back their mortgage  at the end of the term, Id expect the lender 
to work with the borrower to discuss  their options and only take legal proceedings to 
repossess the property  as a last resort.  From what Ive seen, Barclays  and Miss G were in 
contact leading up to and after the end of the mortgage term to discuss repayment  of the 
mortgage, as Id expect them to be. 
Ref: DRN66284652Miss G knew  her mortgage term was ending  in July 2016. She told Barclays  in March 2016 
her plan was to sell the property and use the sale proceeds to pay back  the mortgage.
 
After the term ended,  Barclays and Miss G agreed shed try and sell the property herself.  
She instructed estate  agents but after 12 months  the property hadnt sold. In around July 
2017 Barclays and Miss G discussed other  options.  They agreed theyd try an assisted 
voluntary sale (AVS),  (meaning Barclays would  sell the property on her behalf), but Miss G 
didnt sign and return the agreement for this to go ahead. Barclays warned Miss G in 
January 2018  it was instructing solicitors  to take possession  proceedings against her. 
In around March 2018 Miss G asked for a further 12 months to pay off the mortgage  with 
proceeds she was expecting from some planned  property  development projects. 
Although she provided further information  about  those projects, Barclays  didnt receive  her 
letter setting this out and it instructed solicitors to begin possession  proceedings in around 
May 2018. 
Barclays considered  Miss Gs proposals. I think it was reasonable for it to take the view they 
didnt give enough  certainty that money  to pay off the mortgage  would  be available  at the 
end of another 12 months. The plans were  generally at development stage. And Miss G 
acknowledged they might  not happen, and it might  take longer than 12 months for her to be 
able to repay the mortgage. 
Barclays was still willing to consider an AVS at this stage  if Miss G returned  the paperwork,  
but she didnt.  Miss G told Barclays in September 2018 she was planning to market the 
property through  a different estate  agent. Barclays was concerned  the price she was asking 
was too high. And she made an offer to pay off the mortgage in November  2018  less than 
she owed in full and final settlement which Barclays didnt  accept.   
Miss Gs concerned Barclays threatened possession proceedings in April 2019. I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Barclays to think about  taking  legal  action then as it hadnt heard 
from Miss G for some time. 
Although Miss G had brought  her complaint to our service around this time, Barclays had to 
be given the chance to respond to her complaint  before we could look into things. It put 
proceedings on hold. Although another letter about proceedings was sent to her in around  
June 2019, which I appreciate will have caused Miss G some concern, Barclays  confirmed 
no legal  action would be taken while we considered things. 
Bearing everything in mind, although I can understand  its been  a distressing time for 
Miss G, particularly  as shes been unwell, I think  Barclays has treated Miss G fairly and 
reasonably. Its worked with her over several years after the mortgage term ended to try to 
sell the property and given reasonable consideration to proposals shes made.  So, I dont 
uphold her complaint.
However, Id expect Barclays to treat Miss G now in line with the guidance the Financial 
Conduct Authority  has issued about how to treat its customers who are affected by the 
coronavirus epidemic fairly. That may include working with Miss G to progress the AVS and 
allowing a reasonable period until, say, the end of the year, for the property  to be sold and 
looking again at the development proposal  for which Miss G tells us she now has planning 
permission. Miss G would, of course,  need to cooperate with Barclays for this to happen.  
Ref: DRN66284653And she may wish to take advice from an independent financial adviser  about  other  options  
that might  be available to her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint against  Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6628465