K821x#15complaint
The potential Beneficiaries have complained about the payment Scottish Widows Limited 
made from two personal pensions Mr B had with Scottish  Widows  after his death. They  say 
that the benefits were intended to be paid to them.
background
Mr B had two personal pension plans with Scottish  Widows. Following his death  Scottish  
Widows paid the proceeds of the policies to his partner as she had produced evidence that 
she was financially dependent upon  Mr B.
The potential Beneficiaries say that the proceeds  of the pensions were intended to be paid to 
them. They have produced evidence from their mother that she took a reduced share in her 
divorce as the pensions  were intended  to be paid to the potential  Beneficiaries. The benefits 
from other pension plans have been paid to them in accordance with Mr Bs wishes.
I have seen a limited amount of evidence in this case. There have been difficulties in 
obtaining details  from Scottish Widows because there are data protection issues in 
disclosing details for any third parties.  I have not seen a copy of the application form for the 
personal pension  or much  of Scottish Widows  file.
Scottish Widows  has provided details of the criteria used  to assess who the death claim 
payment should  be made to. They say that Mr B had not made an expression of wish about 
the death benefits. And they say his partner has shown that there was financial dependency. 
That is their priority and so the payment was made.
An offer was made to review the claim payment, although Scottish Widows said that the 
decision was likely  to be the same.  That offer has been rejected.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 March  2020.  I explained that the Trustees  have a wide 
discretion when deciding who payments of death  benefits should be made  to. Financial 
dependency is one of the factors that Scottish  Widows should  take into account. However, 
there are other factors, including  any expression  of wish and anything said in the Will.
I explained Scottish Widows acknowledged they did not take account of the Will and the 
claim the potential Beneficiaries had to the death benefits. I was not considering whether 
Scottish Widows  made the right decision. My decision is about how Scottish  Widows went 
about deciding  who the death benefits  should  be paid to.
I went on to say that in my view, Scottish  Widows  did not properly consider the full range of 
potential beneficiaries when deciding who should receive payment of the death benefits.  I 
intended to make an award  that Scottish Widows  should reconsider the claim.  They  should 
take into account all relevant  evidence. The decision  should be reached having done so and 
explain why the payment  should be made to the selected beneficiary or beneficiaries.
I was satisfied that the potential Beneficiaries have been caused some distress  and 
inconvenience as their claim has not been  properly considered. Scottish Widows did not take 
account of relevant evidence. I intended to make an award that Scottish  Widows should  pay 
£100 to each of the three potential Beneficiaries. 
Ref: DRN69923702Scottish Widows  accepted the potential Beneficiaries had been caused some  distress and 
inconvenience and agreed to pay £100  to each of them. However,  they said they had 
already reconsidered the claim a number of times  since it had been with this Service.  Further  
reconsideration would  not alter their position.
The potential Beneficiaries responded to say they had put forward  the relevant information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  the complaint  
for the reasons given in my provisional  decision.
Scottish Widows  say they have reconsidered  the complaint  a number of times. However, 
they have not explained  why the provisions  of the Will were not followed. I have not seen all 
of the evidence. And neither have  I seen an explanation for the decision not to pay the 
potential Beneficiaries.  I accept that financial dependency is important, but Scottish Widows 
must now reconsider the claim and explain how they arrive at the decision.
To be clear, I do not consider it acceptable to start from the position  that Scottish Widows 
will not reach a different  conclusion. The claim should be reconsidered taking account of all 
of the relevant factors, including the late Mr Bs Will. If necessary, the decision should be 
made or overseen by someone  at a senior level with appropriate experience  of this type of 
decision who hasnt previously been  involved in the decision  making process.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Scottish Widows Limited should reconsider the claim and pay each of 
the potential Beneficiaries £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the potential 
Beneficiaries to accept  or reject my decision before 24 May 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6992370