K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains about the problems she experienced with her TSB Bank  plc account. And 
she wants the bank  to grant the overdraft facility  shed  requested.
 
background
Mrs D said she switched her bank accounts to TSB because shed been promised a small 
overdraft facility. But when her account  opened she was told she hadnt been  accepted and 
she needed to try again in three  months  time. Mrs Ds later applications  for an overdraft were 
also rejected even though  her account  was always in credit.
Mrs D said shes  complained a number of times but the bank  just sent her holding letters. 
Shes also had problems with her online  banking.  She gets error messages and it sometimes 
randomly cancels her direct debits. The whole thing  has caused her a great deal of anxiety. 
So she wants TSB to sort things out and provide the overdraft facility  shed been promised.
TSB said there was no guarantee it would offer additional borrowing.  As a responsible lender 
it looked at a number of criteria including affordability, financial exposure,  account 
management and information from credit agencies.  TSB said it wasnt  able to offer Mrs D an 
overdraft facility at present. But that shouldnt stop her applying  in the future. 
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with TSBs response. So she contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She could see Mrs Ds application for her overdraft  had 
been turned  down due to previous payments to debt collection companies. And although 
Mrs D was now managing  her account  and paying off previous debts she couldnt say the 
bank had made a wrong assessment.
Our adjudicator looked at the problems Mrs D had been experiencing with her direct debits 
cancelling unexpectedly. She said she hadnt  entered her password to confirm any 
cancellations but shed still received cancellation  letters after viewing some  of the payments. 
TSB couldnt provide any confirmation  from its banking systems that Mrs D had confirmed 
the cancellations. So she felt the bank should pay Mrs D £75 compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience  caused. 
TSB didnt  feel it was responsible for the problem with the direct  debits. Although  itd 
experienced some system problems no other customer had reported the same problem with 
their direct debits being cancelled. Mrs D felt the compensation suggested wasnt  enough for 
all of the time, inconvenience and stress  shed  experienced trying to sort things  out. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how stressful this has been for Mrs D. So Ive looked very carefully at everything  
Mrs D and TSB have said. From what Ive seen  TSB carried  out appropriate checks when 
assessing Mrs Ds applications  for an overdraft facility. It has declined  to offer the facility  due 
to a number of factors relating to previous financial difficulties. Mrs D said the repayments 
were related  to a previous  partner whod left her in debt. She was trying to sort things out 
and it was unfair to make  a decision on her overdraft because of that. 
Ref: DRN69473582I can see Mrs D is making  payments to debt management companies  and managing  her 
finances through her new account. And that is to her credit.  But I would expect TSB to take a 
number of factors into account when considering applications for lending. And I cant  really 
say its done anything wrong when  decided not to offer her an overdraft  facility  at this time.
Its important to realise that a persons credit file only records six years of history. And if 
Mrs D continues to manage  her finances I hope  future applications will be viewed more  
positively.
I can see the direct debit cancellations have  caused Mrs D a considerable amount of 
inconvenience. Mrs D is sure she didnt  cancel them. And shes put a lot of effort into sorting 
things out. On one occasion she travelled to a match but was unable  to obtain the tickets 
because her payment  had been cancelled.
TSB has acknowledged its had some  system  issues. But no one else has reported the same 
problem with direct debits being cancelled  after viewing.  Mrs D wouldve entered her 
password to access her account details. And she made other transactions at the same time 
that some  of the debits were cancelled. The bank  said the payments  could  only be cancelled  
if Mrs D had re-input her password to confirm the request.
TSB cant provide a copy of the system  log to show whether  or not that took place. And its 
difficult to be sure exactly whats happened here.  But I do think its unlikely Mrs D would 
accidentally cancel payment instructions on four separate occasions. She would have to 
confirm each cancellation by re-entering  her password. So on balance  I think  its more likely  
a system fault may have  been responsible. 
I realise TSB feels  it isnt responsible for the problems. And compensation isnt necessary. 
Whereas Mrs D feels shes  suffered considerably and would like substantial compensation.
As Ive said I cant say TSB has acted unfairly when its decided  not to provide an overdraft 
facility at this present  time. But I do think its more likely  that a system fault was responsible  
for Mrs Ds issues with her direct debits.  And TSB hasnt been able to show  Mrs D was 
responsible for the cancellations  herself.
Based on everything  Ive seen I think the recommendation that TSB pay Mrs D £75 
compensation is fair and appropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should  pay Mrs D £75 compensation for her trouble 
and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6947358