K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about Business Loan Network Limited (trading as ThinCats.com) failing to 
present accurate information on a loan he invested in on its peer to peer lending platform.
background
ThinCats is a peer to peer internet-based lending platform where a group of individual 
lenders contribute towards a larger aggregate loan to a single borrower.  The loans are 
auctioned so that individual lenders can participate and make a bid. Once a bid is made, the 
specified amount  of money from the member account will be allocated to that bid. Once the 
borrower accepts enough  bids to meet its aggregate lending requirement, ThinCats enter 
into a loan agreement  with the borrower on behalf of all the lenders. 
In November 2015, Mr J invested £3000 in company  S. The purpose of the loan was for 
development finance of three  cottages  on an open bridging basis with repayment from sale 
or refinance  on a buy-to-let basis. Three loans of £160,000 each were  released with an 18-
month term and each attracted 14.90% interest.  Mr J invested  in the third tranche.
The security  was held out as: 
1.A first fixed and floating  charge over company S, where the 3 loans were ranked 
equally;
2.First legal charge over each freehold plot being developed with each loan having 1 
plot as security, GDV  (gross development value)  of £240,000 per plot (albeit the 
current market value  was £90,000 per plot);
3.Secondary security  of solar farm, Landmoor Lane providing additional security to the 
loans - value of £400k;
4.Inter-company guarantees from all associated businesses;
5.Personal guarantees from the director for each loan limited  to £160,000, total of 
£480,000
Solar Farm  was defined in the underwriting pack as:
Solar Farm-Landmoor Lane:  Single enclosure of pastureland,  part occupied as a solar farm 
constructed in accordance with Government backed  renewable energy and heat scheme.  
Full planning permission in place  for this type of use. Scope to enlarge the current  area of 
solar panels.  
Income passing-£40,000  per annum When considering value, the investment methodology 
has been adopted:-  i.e. having regard to current  market rent and applying a suitable  yield-ln  
this case, 10%
Market Value: £400,000 (Four  Hundred Thousand Pounds) Market Rent: £40,000 (Forty 
Thousand Pounds per annum)
ThinCats held out the loan-to-value as being  71% at drawdown, reduced to 42% on 
completion of the project. These figures  were based upon the above valuations.  
The director  was said to have assets of circa £10 million, of which £5 million  related to the 
principal residence plus other  investment land/properties. The family trust had further assets 
of circa £3 million which included land and shares of SCHSE.  In his own right, without  any 
joint assets or trusts,  after liabilities, the director had circa £3 million. Against this, there were  
bank liabilities totalling £1.7 million which had reduced since  previous lending  submissions, 
Ref: DRN67678752virtually all with Handelsbanken and related to the loans  outstanding on the principal 
residence and investment  land/properties.  Some of the assets were in the process of being 
sold, which would reduce the liabilities  further and increase his personal cash  position.
The information pack also set out the fallback and recovery process as follows:
The subject of what  would happen in the event of a distressed situation is something both 
the Sponsor and the Borrower have discussed  in detail.
Regular monitoring enhanced by communication from the borrower  and his professionals are
the first element of monitoring regarding performance and stress.
That in respect of this bridging loan, the first position is the sale of the developed 
properties;
For whatever reason  should this fail then arrangements  would be made with the 
Companys Bankers  for term debt;
Should that fail then the assets  due to the combined LTV could be sold at auction;
Should that fail then inter group funds would have to cover that position;
Should that fail then the shareholding trust and the guarantor would be required to 
perform;
There are significant layers of fallback  positions so as to protects lenders interests.
Reputationally the Company due to its close associations with the Group and its professional
relationships it would be highly undesirable for the Company to fail and so there are
considerable safeguards put in place to cover this position. 
Mr J understood that the secondary  security  was a solar farm. He relied upon the valuation 
report which described the farm as generating £40,000 per annum  valued at £400,000. The 
loan defaulted  in May 2017 and the company was dissolved in December 2017. As part of 
the recovery process Mr J discovered that the security was only over the land on which the 
solar panel  business operated. Mr J says that the information provided was misleading, as 
ThinCats held out the secondary  security  as being  an income  generating solar  farm. He was 
disappointed to discover that the solar  panels  were subject to finance with two providers, 
which would likely need to be settled if the land was sold, so the value of the security  was 
significantly less than he had been led to believe.
 
Mr J believes  that ThinCats failed to undertake any checks to ascertain whether the asset 
matched the security  held out to investors; he noted  that the charge was only registered by 
ThinCats in March 2017, after the funds had been advanced by investors. Mr J would like 
ThinCats to return his investment funds in full and pay interest.  
ThinCats says the legal charge was pledged over Solar Farm and this did not necessarily 
extend to any chattel assets situated on the land. It was Mr Js assumption that the reference 
to Solar Farm, meant that the solar  panels  would be covered by the charge. It was for Mr J 
to have made appropriate enquiries and checks about this.
 
ThinCats is pursuing claims against third parties with regards  to their conduct, including  the 
sponsors who provided information and made representations in the information packs. As 
part of a later review, ThinCats  says it became apparent that the director  and/or sponsor 
provided, incorrect valuations and misrepresented other details in their information packs  
and direct responses to the Lenders. 
Ref: DRN67678753Our investigator looked into Mr Js concerns, and thought  Mr J wasnt provided with clear, 
fair and not misleading information  about  the security for the loan.  She thought it was likely 
that if Mr J had been provided  with clear and accurate  information,  he wouldnt have 
invested in the loan.  Her reasons were as follows:
ThinCats had a responsibility to ensure the information presented  was clear, fair and 
not mis-leading.  She thought ThinCats ought to have verified the communications  to 
potential lenders;
whilst  ThinCats  said the sponsor provided  the information pack and its terms said it 
wasnt responsible  for checking all the information, ThinCats needed to comply with 
the rules set out by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA);
ThinCats hadnt provided evidence of the due diligence checks it carried  out;
it was not clear that the secondary security was only over the land. The information 
valued Solar farm as income generating, with a value of £400,000;
on balance, if accurate information  had been  provided, it was unlikely that Mr J would 
have invested.
Our investigator thought Mr J wanted to invest in peer to peer loans, so it was likely that he 
would have still invested in similar  loans in any event. To put things right,  she thought  
ThinCats should:
calculate how much  Mr J had received back from his initial  investment  including  
any funds that had been recovered  and returned  to him (A)  the actual value;
calculate how much  Mr J would have received, had he received an average rate of 
return for loans of similar risk across the platform from the date of investment until 
the date the loan was due to be repaid (B) - the fair value;
if B was greater than A, Thincats should  pay Mr J the difference. If A was greater 
than B then Mr J hadnt suffered a financial  loss and there  would be no financial 
compensation to pay;
also pay Mr J 8% simple interest from the date the loan should  have  been  repaid (the 
end date) to the date of settlement. This was to reflect  the fact Mr J should have 
received his funds  back at that point but had been deprived  of the use of his money 
since that date;
if recovery action was still ongoing  at the date of settlement, and provided Mr J 
agreed to the redress proposed, Thincats should  take ownership of the loans. If it 
was not possible  for ThinCats to take ownership,  then it may request  an undertaking 
from Mr J that he repaid to it any amount he may receive  from the recovery 
distributions in the future. This was because  it wouldnt be fair for Mr J to benefit from 
any future payments  received from the loans when he had already been  
compensated.
ThinCats disagreed  with the view. In summary,  it said:
the information about the security was not misleading, nowhere did it say that the 
solar panels were owned. Further  the fact that rental income was received made it 
clear that the land was not occupied  by the owner and Mr Js assumptions about the 
term solar  farm  were  misconceived;
it was for Mr J to undertake his own due diligence enquiries;
information provided to lenders from the borrower and sponsor was supported  at the 
time by third party professionals and it was reasonable for ThinCats to rely on this. It 
had not failed in any duty to the lenders;
Ref: DRN67678754ThinCats is in the process of bringing various claims against the third parties as a 
result of issues with various  valuations;
ThinCats terms conditions set out the risk warnings;
ThinCats doesnt agree that Mr J wouldnt have invested if the security  information 
was different. As the solar  farm was secondary  security, any realisation  would  have 
been distributed across the whole portfolio and any return  against  this particular loan 
would have been minimal. ThinCats therefore disputes that this security had any 
material bearing on Mr Js decision making  about whether to invest.
Our investigator clarified her view and said that whilst it was open  to ThinCats to delegate 
checks to a sponsor,  ultimately it was responsible for providing clear,  fair and not misleading 
information about the loan. Even  if the terms and conditions did suggest  that Mr J should 
have undertaken  his own checks, that didnt change the regulatory  obligations  on ThinCats. 
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my conclusions on this complaint,  Ive taken into account the wider obligations 
on ThinCats. This includes good  industry  practice, and any applicable  guidance or rules  from 
the FCA.
At the time of promoting Company Ss investment opportunity, ThinCats  was authorised  and 
regulated by the FCA. The relevant  rules  and regulations FCA regulated firms  are required 
to follow  are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements  which  all 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN  2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles  here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must  conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must  pay due regard  to the information  needs of its clients 
and communicate  information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
ThinCats was also required to act in accordance  with the rules  set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (COBS). And the most relevant obligations  here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly,  fairly  and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its client.  
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication  or a financial promotion  
is fair, clear and not misleading.  
Ref: DRN67678755So before holding out the promotional material provided by Company S, ThinCats needed to 
satisfy itself that the material  itself was clear, fair and not misleading. And it also needed to 
be satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers  to invest in Company 
S would continue to be acting  in its clients best interests. Its not disputed  that ThinCats did 
not provide investment advice.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which applied at the time Mr J invested, these are 
dated 30 September 2015. Under Section  21 Liability it states:
2. We will use all reasonable endeavours to provide BLNs services  with reasonable care 
and skill and to seek ways in which the risks can be minimised.
3. We will take care to ensure that our communications are clear,  fair and not misleading.
This express  recognition within the terms and conditions, shows  that Thincats was aware of 
the requirements around information provision. 
These terms and conditions did not expressly state  that it was for the lender to undertake 
their own due diligence.  But Ive seen the statement  at page 1 of the terms and conditions 
document, which says,  Since investors  are making  their own decisions,  they have only 
themselves to blame for those decisions.  In other  words, ThinCats  thought it was for Mr J to 
satisfy himself that the investments  were right for him. 
It was open to ThinCats to present the information provided from the sponsor to investors  for 
their consideration and its fair to say that as no advice  was being given, it was for each 
investor to decide  whether the investment was suitable for them. But it was for ThinCats  to 
undertake due diligence checks on the promotional information to be satisfied that the 
information being presented on its platform was clear, fair and not misleading, to enable  
investors to make an informed decision. ThinCats repeatedly  says the due diligence checks 
were down to the investor, but this evidences a fundamental misunderstanding of its 
responsibilities. 
ThinCats relied upon the information  provided by the sponsor and at its highest,  it said it 
undertook a plausibility check, relying  upon the fact that documents were purportedly  
provided by reputable professional agencies.  I dont think  simply looking at the face of 
documents central to the reliability of the security for the loan was enough.  In the applicable 
terms and conditions from 2015  ThinCats  held itself out as being  unusual as it only makes 
secured loans; it was not unreasonable to expect  that it would check the security being 
offered, otherwise  the whole premise on which investments  were  made  would have been  
misleading.
Ive also borne in mind  that the FCA said the following  in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely  that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle  6 (PRIN 2.1.1R)  and the clients  best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough  due diligence to satisfy  itself on the essential  
information on which any communication  or promotion is based.
Whilst this paper postdates the date of investment, I dont think that makes  a material  
difference, as it simply clarifies the interpretation  and application  of the rules  and guidance  
which were already applicable to ThinCats at the time. It was an obvious risk that if the 
Ref: DRN67678756information was inaccurate, investors would  be unable  to make an informed decision about 
the level of risk they would be exposed to when choosing whether to invest. Further, the 
sponsor was paid by the borrower, so due diligence checks  were  a common-sense step to 
minimise the risk of misleading  information  being shared and to maintain transparency. 
The secondary security was held out as an income  generating  solar farm and the market 
value was expressly said to have been calculated on this basis.  I do not agree that it was 
clear to lenders  that the security was over the parcel  of land only. Im satisfied its likely that 
the value of the land alone would have  been significantly less as no annual  income  would 
have been made. So, I consider the information  provided was unclear and misleading. And 
ThinCats now admits that, as part of the process of defaulting the loans, the information  
packs contained incorrect valuations and other  details were misrepresented. The 
misrepresentations have formed  the basis of claims now being  pursued against the third 
parties.
Theres nothing prescribed by the FCA as to what reasonable checks  might involve and I 
agree that reasonable checks  vary according  to the particular circumstances. But, despite 
reasonable requests, theres nothing  to show that ThinCats  undertook any other  checks or 
steps to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the promotional material. I think  it is more likely than not that appropriately detailed 
checks wouldve identified issues before the promotions were approved. 
I cant say whether ThinCats  would have granted approval for Company Ss loans  to be 
published on its platform, if such checks had been performed. But even if it had decided to 
approve the loans,  despite what it found, ThinCats  would have been  obliged to share 
accurate information  with prospective investors  under the requirement  to provide clear, fair 
and not misleading information.
 
Mr J relied upon there being different levels of security. In particular, he said that the 
secondary security over the solar farm, gave him reassurance and was material  to his 
decision whether  to invest. His assertion  that he would not have invested had some  of the 
security and/or loan to value been less than stated, is plausible  because  he would have 
been exposed  to more risk than he wanted to take. 
It may be that ThinCats  has subsequently taken  advice  and legal action to try and maximise 
returns for the lenders after the loans  defaulted.  But these steps occurred after the 
information had been relied upon  and the investments had been made, so they cant  cure 
the original shortcomings by ThinCats. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Js complaint. I consider that it is fair and reasonable for 
ThinCats to put things  right.  
putting things right
When looking to put things right for Mr J, my aim is to put him as close as possible to the 
position he would have been in but for ThinCats error. 
As Ive said above,  Im satisfied Mr J wouldnt have gone ahead with this investment. But I 
do think that Mr J wanted  to invest in peer to peer lending, so I think its likely hed have 
invested in a similar loan.  
Ref: DRN67678757So, to put him back in the position  he would have been in had things  not gone wrong, I think  
that ThinCats should calculate how much Mr J has received back  from his initial  investment
 including  any funds  that have been recovered  and returned  to him (A)  the actual value.
It should then calculate how much Mr J would have  received, had he received an average 
net rate of return  for loans  of similar risk across the platform from the date of investment until 
the loan was due to be repaid (B)  the fair value. 
If B is greater than A, ThinCats should pay Mr J the difference.  If A is greater  than B, then Mr 
W hasnt suffered a financial loss and there  will be no financial compensation to pay.
Thincats should also pay Mr J 8% simple interest from the date the loan should  have been  
repaid (the end date) to the date of settlement. This is to reflect the fact Mr J should  have 
received his funds  back at that point but has been  deprived of the use of this money since 
that date.
If recovery actions are still ongoing  at the date of settlement, and provided Mr J agrees
to the redress proposed,  ThinCats should take ownership of the loans. 
If it is not possible for ThinCats  to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from 
Mr J that he repays any amount he may receive  from the recovery distributions in the future. 
It wouldnt be fair for Mr J to benefit from any future  payments  received from the loans when 
hes already been compensated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding the complaint. I direct Business Loan Network  Limited  
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6767875