K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C complains HSBC  UK Bank  Plc held her liable for a debt she says shes  not 
responsible for. She says shes  the victim of a sophisticated fraud, so HSBC  should remove 
any negative information recorded in relation to the debt from her credit  file.
Background
Mrs C opened two accounts with HSBC in 2010,  a current account  and a savings account. In 
August 2014 two other savings accounts  were opened in her name and several cheques 
were deposited  into those accounts, totalling £8892. The funds were transferred  to Mrs Cs 
current account, after which they were dissipated via a series of payments, including  ATM 
transactions. The cheques were  flagged as fraudulent and HSBC refunded amounts 
equivalent to the funds  that were deposited,  leaving Mrs C overdrawn on her current  account 
and the two newer savings accounts. This left her with a debt of £9017.83.
HSBC closed Mrs Cs accounts in late 2014  and recorded a default in relation  to the debt. 
They sold the debt in January 2017  to another  company and removed the default marker. 
The company who then owned  the debt re-recorded a default  against her in July 2017. Mrs 
C says shes still being pursued for the debt and receives unpleasant letters from this 
company.
Mrs C says she didnt deposit  the cheques or open  the two savings accounts.  She says she 
didnt make any transactions on her current account (barring any direct debits) after the 
cheques were deposited, up until 9 September 2014, by which time the funds from the 
cheques were spent. She says she reported  the fraud straight away in 2014  after being  
contacted by HSBC about  the cheques. And she says HSBC agreed not to hold her liable for 
the debt, as shown through  them removing the default they recorded from her credit file, 
which in her opinion  shows theyd accepted she was the victim of fraud.
Mrs C made  a complaint  to HSBC, which they rejected in October 2017. They dont think  a 
fraudster wouldve been able to set up two savings accounts, transfer the deposited funds to 
her current  account and then spent those funds without her awareness or consent. They 
deny agreeing to close  her accounts without holding her liable for the debt.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mrs C brought  her complaint to our service.  An investigator 
looked into her concerns  but decided not to uphold it. They  found:
-The Payment Services Regulations 2009 are relevant  to her complaint. They say 
HSBC should  not hold Mrs C liable for any transactions she didnt authorise.  This 
means they shouldnt  pursue her for the debt if she didnt give her consent  to the 
payments out of her current account,  which represented the fraudulent funds.
-Mrs C likely gave  her consent  to the transactions which  went  out of her current  
account. It was unlikely someone  couldve  obtained  both her debit card and PIN, and 
her online  banking  log-in details. Both these things wouldve been needed to set up 
the two later savings  accounts, transfer  the deposited funds to her current account 
and then make the payments from it.
-Mrs C debit card chip was unlikely to have been successfully cloned, as we are yet to 
see any cases brought to our service where  this has happened.  Its more likely  the 
Ref: DRN60709822card she says was in her possession when the transactions took place  was used to 
make the ATM  withdrawals and point of sale transactions. So, someone  wouldve 
needed to take and replace her card on multiple occasions without Mrs C noticing. 
But this is unlikely. Shes confirmed she never wrote down her PIN or let anyone else 
use her card and PIN. And she doesnt  know anyone  would couldve had access to 
her card without her knowledge.
-Some of the payments Mrs C disputes  were made in shops where shed  made 
genuine transactions in the past, and many other transactions were  made  in the 
areas Mrs C regularly  used her card. This points to it being  Mrs C who made those  
transactions.
-To open  the two savings accounts  someone wouldve needed Mrs Cs online log-in 
security information and a physical secure  key to generate a security code. But even 
if a fraudster had this information, its unlikely  theyd  chose to transfer the funds to 
her current  account  and risk making  her aware  of what was happening. Its more 
likely theyd have transferred the funds out of the savings  accounts  Mrs C says she 
didnt know about.
-Mrs C looks  to have discussed  agreeing  a settlement figure  with regard to the total 
debt she owes HSBC,  which  included  the overdraft debt. So, while she says shes 
always disputed the overdraft debt, this seems  unlikely if she was prepared to pay it 
back as part of a repayment plan. HSBCs  records dont indicate theyd agreed to 
clear the debt. Instead they indicate theyd agreed to stop pursuing  her for the debt 
for a period of time due to her medical  circumstances.
-Mrs Cs account history  demonstrates she used her current account regularly, so not 
using her account for three weeks would be unusual for her. She says she used a 
current account she held with another bank during this time.  But the statements for 
that account dont establish this was the case.  They show  she didnt spend on the 
account until nine days after the first disputed  point  of sale transaction.
Mrs C strongly  disagrees with the outcome  the investigator reached. She has asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on her complaint, so its been  passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for broadly the same reasons.
There are two main aspects I need  to consider in order to decide  Mrs Cs complaint. The first 
is whether I think she gave consent to the payments made from her current  account which 
represented the fraudulent funds that were deposited by cheque. And the second  aspect  is 
whether I think HSBC had previously  agreed to clear  the overdraft debt and not pursue her 
for it.
Did Mrs C give her consent to the payments out of her current  account?
Ref: DRN60709823Ive listened very carefully to the points Mrs C has made, and how adamant  she is that shes  
the victim of a sophisticated fraud.  Im also aware of what  shes told us about her medical  
condition which has been affected by being  chased for a debt she says she isnt responsible 
for. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear about Mrs Cs medical situation and I appreciate how being  pursued 
for a large debt could make things worse for her. But what  Ive looked into is whether I think  
it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to conclude she made the payments she disputes,  and 
following this, whether it was fair to hold her responsible for the resulting debt. What I cant 
hold HSBC responsible for is the demeanour  or way in which  the company who now owns  
the debt is pursuing  her. This would be something to complain  to that company about. 
The PSRs  2009  are relevant to Mrs Cs complaint. The regulations mean HSBC cannot hold 
Mrs C liable for payments  she didnt  authorise. Its not possible to know  for certain who 
made the payments and set up the two savings accounts. But this isnt whats required of me 
to decide Mrs Cs complaint. The measure I need to decide things by is what do I think  is 
more likely than not to have happened. And on balance,  I think Mrs C is more likely than not 
to have given  her consent to the payments out of her current account. Ill explain why.
-I dont think a fraudster wouldve risked transferring the funds to Mrs Cs current  
account. They couldve more  easily  transferred the funds out of the savings accounts 
set up in her name, which wouldve avoided the possibility of her seeing the funds go 
into her current  account. I think its telling the funds werent  spent quickly,  which  
again would  seem  odd for a fraudster to do, as this further  increased  the risk of Mrs 
C becoming aware of what was happening.
-A fraudster wouldve needed to have  compromised Mrs Cs online security 
information, obtained access to her physical card and to have known her PIN. Its 
possible a hacker couldve captured some of Mrs Cs online security information  by 
targeting the device(s) she used to log on to her account. But this still doesnt  
account for how they managed to obtain her PIN to use with the physical security  key 
in order to set up the two savings accounts.  So, I think  the fraud being performed 
through hacking is unlikely.
-I think Mrs Cs physical card was used to make the transactions. I say this because  
while its possible to clone a magnetic  strip, its actually much  more difficult to clone a 
chip. And our service isnt currently  aware  of any situations  where  a card and chip 
has been successfully  cloned outside of a laboratory setting.
-Mrs C says her PIN was never written down, but its possible someone couldve seen 
her use her card and PIN and kept a note of her PIN. Mrs C, however, still had her 
card during the period  the transactions took place, so that same person  wouldve 
needed to have had access to take and replace her card on multiple  occasions,  
which I think is unlikely. 
-Mrs C says her HSBC  current account  wasnt her main  account, but Im not 
persuaded by this. HSBCs records show she used the account regularly and it 
wouldve been unusual  for her not to have  used it during the time the transactions 
took place. Her statements from her account  with another  bank also dont 
demonstrate a great deal of activity on that account during this time.
-Many  of the disputed  transactions  took place in areas where Mrs C frequently  
shopped. And some of those transactions were made in shops she made payments 
Ref: DRN60709824in before. I think this points to the payments more  likely being made by her or by 
someone using  her card with her consent.
Did HSBC previously agree to clear  Mrs Cs debt?
I dont think HSBC did agree to clear Mrs Cs debt. I see they removed the default  they 
registered, but I dont think  this establishes  they accepted shed  been  the victim of fraud.  
Their actions instead show they no longer owned  the debt, but another  company  did. It 
wouldnt be fair for instance for two companies to have active default markers registered 
against her for the same debt.
HSBC have provided records of the communication theyve had with Mrs C since they made  
her aware of the activity on her account  in late 2014. But none  of those records show theyd 
agreed to clear the disputed debt, or that theyd  accepted Mrs Cs version of events. What I 
can see is that theyd  agreed not to pursue her for the debt for a period of time based  on 
what shed told them about  her medical circumstances. But I dont think HSBC agreed this 
was to be a permanent debt solution. So, Im not going to direct HSBC  to clear Mrs Cs debt 
which is currently owned by another company.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6070982