K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Novaloans Ltd (trading as cash4unow) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr A had three loans  with Novaloans (although I understand  the first was cancelled on the 
day it was approved and repaid without any interest). Ive summarised some of the 
information Novaloans  provided about Mr As borrowed in the table below.
Loan  no. Amount
borrowedStart date End date
1 £250 10/04/18 10/04/18
2 £360 11/04/18 31/07/18
3 £350 06/09/18 19/09/18
Two of our adjudicators looked at Mr As complaint. The second adjudicator  thought it should 
be upheld in respect of the third loan only. She thought Novaloans  ought to have realised 
that Mr A was not managing his existing credit commitments and that additional borrowing 
wouldnt therefore be sustainable.
Mr A agreed with the adjudicator.  Novaloans didnt respond to her view, so the complaint  
was passed to me to decide.  Ill focus  on loan 3 as Mr A accepted the adjudicators  view 
that loans 1 and 2 were not lent irresponsibly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Novaloans needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
Novaloans says when  Mr A applied for loan 3 he declared income of £1,400 and expenditure 
of £884, leaving  him with a disposable  income of £516 per month. Novaloans says this was 
sufficient to make the loan repayments  of around £112 per month.  Novaloans  also says it 
carried out credit checks and it provided a summary of these checks in its final response  
letter. Its summary includes that Mr A had two short-term loans outstanding, was using 66% 
of his revolving credit  limits and had 19 active accounts.
The first thing I have to say is that the application data Novaloans has provided does not 
show that Mr A declared any information about  his outgoings when he asked for loan 3. All 
of the expenditure fields on the application  appear to be empty.
Secondly, I havent  seen the full results of the credit checks Novaloans carried out  Ive only 
seen the summary  mentioned above.  While  I dont  doubt that this is accurate, I am not 
persuaded it represents the full picture. I say this because Ive seen  a copy  of Mr As credit  
history from the time of loan 3 and it shows  that he had seven other high-cost loans running 
Ref: DRN60574272concurrently, all of which were in either arrangements to pay, debt management plans or late 
arrears. These accounts had been  opened between March and July 2018.  I also note that 
Mr As current account was defaulted  in May 2018.
Novaloans hasnt given  any reason  in response  to the adjudicators view why it wouldnt 
have been aware  of this information. And even if it wasnt aware, I think  it ought to have 
been. I dont think  it was proportionate for Novaloans to have carried out a credit check, 
seen that Mr A had a large number of accounts open and then approve loan 3 having  not 
obtained any accurate expenditure  information  from Mr A and not having looked  more 
closely at the status of his existing credit commitments.
Given that Mr A had opened  seven other  high-cost credit accounts in the time leading  up to 
loan 3 and gone into arrears on all of them, I think it was irresponsible for Novaloans  to have 
approved further  credit.  It was unlikely that Mr A was in a position to repay loan 3 
sustainably. Ive noted that Mr A did repay  the loan  but having seen evidence of his 
financial situation, I accept his testimony he had to borrow to do so.
For these reasons, Im upholding  Mr As complaint about loan 3.
putting things right
Novaloans should  refund the interest and charges Mr A paid towards loan 3. It should add 
interest at 8% simple  per year, from when Mr A paid the interest and charges, until the date 
of settlement. If Novaloans has reported any adverse information about loan 3 to credit 
reference agencies,  it should remove this information. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Novaloans  to take off tax from this interest. Novaloans must  give 
Mr A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint.  Novaloans  Ltd must put things right by taking the steps  set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6057427