K821x#15complaint
Mrs As complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  her central heating  and plumbing
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in December 2020, part of which is copied 
below: 
On 12 November 2018, Mrs A made  a claim under  her policy with British Gas,  as there was
a leak from her hot water tank. British Gas sent out a contractor  who reported that water was
leaking from the base  of the hot water tank.  The contractor replaced the water tank the
following day. However, not long afterwards there was another attendance, as Mrs A says
the leak was still happening and was getting  worse. I understand another hot water tank was
installed on 26 November 2018, but Mrs A contacted  British  Gas again on 29 November
2018, as the leak had still not stopped and was going through  to the flat below  Mrs As.
British Gas then apparently said the leak might be from a pipe under the floor.  A senior
engineer attended on 30 November 2018  to try and locate  it. He reported that the water
supply pipes going through the floor of Mrs As property  were held in with nails and had no
protection; he said they had therefore  been  installed incorrectly  and this could be the cause
of the leak.
British Gas told Mrs A to contact the buildings management agency  to get the supply
pipework replaced, as this was not covered by her insurance policy.  I understand the
property managing agents instructed contractors  to look into the matter but did not think  this
was the cause of any leak.
In March 2019, British Gas agreed to go back out and replaced two water pipes under the
floor in the bathroom. British Gas says that these pipes were  replaced to help eliminate
suspected locations that might be causing problems but they were not leaking.
I understand there was still damp and so Mrs A was concerned there  were  still leaks
elsewhere. Mrs A had a plumber out to test the pump, as Mrs A said this was activating
randomly. Mrs As plumber said he attended  in April 2019 and checked the pump. [He said]  
It is not faulty and is not the cause  of any leaks but a leak elsewhere in the system might  be 
causing it to come on.
I understand British  Gas arranged for a leak detection company to attend in May 2019. They
didnt find any leaks but did repair a water pressure valve. It seems  there  were  a couple of
other inspections after this but no further leaks have been found.
Mrs A is very unhappy with the handling  of the claim and says considerable damage has
been done to her home, as a result of British  Gas not investigating properly and finding  the
leaking pipes under her bathroom floor until March 2019.
British Gas said that the damage to Mrs As property was a result of the initial leak, caused
by incorrect installation. It said that the leak was not therefore covered under the policy and
so it is not responsible for the resultant damage to her property.  British  Gas did, however
agree to repair the damage to one wall in Mrs As property as a gesture of goodwill. I
understand it also said it would replace the carpets  but later withdrew this offer.  I understand
Ref: DRN65930912that the work  to the walls was done  in July 2019  and Mrs A is satisfied with this work.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld,  as
he was satisfied that British Gas was entitled to rely on the advice of its contractors, that the
pipes were leaking as a result of the way they had been installed and this is not covered
under the policy.
Mrs A does not accept  the investigators  assessment.  Mrs A has made  the following
submissions in her initial complaint and in response  to the investigator:
On 4 March 2019, the contractors carried out thermal  imaging of the concrete floor
and found there was a leak under the bathroom floor. They  came  back  on 8 March
2019 and took up the floor and replaced  the pipes.  The contractor showed her the
water seeping out of the pipe onto his hands. After this was done the flat started to
dry out.
If the thermal imagining had been  done in November 2018, all the trouble afterwards
would have been avoided.
She has not had carpet in the hall way, part of the carpet was taken out of the lounge 
and shes had damaged vinyl in the kitchen and bathroom for 18 months, as a result  
of the two water tanks leaking. There is also damp  in the airing  cupboard and the 
wood panel of the bath, as well as damage  caused  by damp to the walls, as a result 
of the leaks.
The water  pump  keeps coming on, which is concerning and wakes  her at night.
The leak also caused damage to the common hallway  outside her flat.
The line of damp up the walls was up to the electric points and she was extremely
concerned about  this.
She had to make numerous phone calls to British Gas, often unanswered and
unreturned, incurring  additional charges, to try and resolve the issues with British
Gas.
She has suffered  enormous stress and anxiety, including sleepness nights because
of the horrendous damp  smell,  the cold and concern about the water rising  to socket
level and the water pump turning itself on randomly.
Two of her electrical sockets  and the telephone line were unusable because of the
wet and damp walls.
She was unable to have visitors because of the mess, the smell and general health
issues because of the damp and the mould. And she had to forego social  events and
holidays, because  she could not leave  her flat in case there was a leak into the flat
below, or because she had to wait in for contractors. She had an accident in March
2019 and was unable to work but could not go and stay with her mother  to help her,
in case there  was a leak again.
The value of her flat having been compromised on the open market  as at the present
time it has issues which would not allow her to sell it.
Her flat has essentially been  uninhabitable all this time (she could not have rented it
in its condition).
She is still getting high damp metre readings  how sure is British  Gas that there are
no other leaks in her property?
The pipes that run up between the flats and which British Gas says were wrongly
installed, are not the ones that were leaking.
Mrs A wanted British Gas to pay for the replacement carpets but I understand Mrs A has
now made a home insurance claim for this. Her home insurer has apparently agreed to
Ref: DRN65930913cover the claim and she will have to pay a £500  excess for this claim. Mrs A is also
concerned about  losing her no claims bonus and her future premiums increasing because  of
this claim.  I note that there have  been some difficulties in the work  being carried out
satisfactorily but that is not a matter  for this complaint.
Mrs A has also asked  that British Gas reimburse the cost of the dehumidifier she bought
(£149.99, with warranty £46.99); a new duvet  she had to buy because of the cold (£35.20);
the cost of phone  calls and cost of paper bills to prove calls made (around £9 per month
extra); extra  gas and electricity costs; and compensation for loss of wages because she had
to turn work  down in order to attend  contractors appointments.
Mrs A has also said that her pump still comes on intermittently. It has been  tested  and under
test conditions, it doesnt happen. She has been  told this means the pump  is not faulty but
there is still a leak somewhere within the system. She wants the pump replaced and she
needs to know  if there  are any leaks still present.
As the investigator  was not able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this has been a long ordeal for Mrs A. She first reported the leak in early
November 2018  and her flat has still not been  restored to the condition  it was in before then.
British Gas diagnosed the leak as being from the water tank situated inside the airing
cupboard. There is no evidence to suggest  this was not correct. And the drawings of the
damage to her flat provided by Mrs A suggest this area was the epicentre of the leak.
However, even though  the tank was replaced  on 13 November 2018  in order  to stop the
leak, Mrs A reported an increasingly  significant  leak each day since  then. I can see from the
notes on British Gass  file that when Mrs A reported the leak on the replaced tank, she said
there were rivers coming down my cold tank. She said she was having  to empty a tray
under the tank and from a dehumidifier  tank several  times a day. However, the contractors
initially blamed  this on condensation. Eventually  they agreed that the new tank was leaking
and arranged to replace  it again on 26 November 2018.
However, theres no real explanation as to why the tank needed to be replaced twice. When
asked about this, British Gas said the first one had a manufacturers  fault but theres no
contemporaneous evidence to support that. And, even if there were, it did not deal with the
matter as promptly as it should have done. Mrs As reports that there was still a leak were
dismissed and it seems to me that it cannot  therefore have investigated  the situation
properly. Allowing the leak to continue, as it did for around two weeks before replacing  the
tank again, would inevitably have increased the water damage caused  to the flat.
Mrs A thinks  there were  errors made when installing the tank on 13 November 2018 and
without any other convincing evidence, this seems  likely to me. Theres  no record  of any
manufacturer fault, that could not have been  known to British Gas when it was installed, in
any of the information provided to me. I am not satisfied that British  Gas dealt with these
repairs as well as it should  have done.
Mrs A also reported that there was still a leak ongoing after the second  tank was installed. I
understand an appointment was made to carry out thermal imaging of the floor on 30
Ref: DRN65930914November 2018,  but the contractor that attended on that day refused to do this, as the floor
was concrete. Mrs A says this was known in advance of this appointment; and shed a
funeral to go to that day but didnt  because of this appointment. The thermal  imaging was
finally done in March 2019. I do not have any convincing evidence that would justify why this
was not done on November 2018 when it was apparently possible to do it in March  2019.
British Gass notes  say an appointment was booked for the contractor to go back  out on 4
March 2019 but no record was provided of what was done  then.  Mrs A says the contractors
carried out thermal imaging and found a leak under  the concrete  floor and returned on 8
March 2018 to take up the floor and replace  the leaking section of pipes.
In answer to a query about this work  from the investigator, British  Gas said there  was no
leak on these pipes  but they were  replaced to help eliminate suspected  locations  that might
be causing problems.
I have trouble accepting  that British Gas would  have taken up a concrete floor replaced
pipework and replaced a concrete floor, without some evidence  that there was a leak from
those pipes. If there was no evidence of a leak, then there was no need  for any work.
After further enquiries  British Gas finally provided a copy of the job sheet from its contractor
of 4 March 2019 (this obviously should have been provided with its file from the outset and
Im disappointed it wasnt).
The job sheet says that on 4 March 2019:
carried out pressure test on water  main which held steady customer  reports pump running
intermittent suspected leak on hot water/cold water  pipe under concrete floor to return  to run
new hot and cold pipes 2m.
The job sheet from 8 March 2019 says that they broke  up concrete to expose  hot and cold
pipes and replaced cemented over. And the authority  to proceed form dated 8 March 2019,
says to remove bath panel and break  up concrete screed to access  leaking.
So from this, it seems  clear to me that British  Gass contractors diagnosed  a leak on the
pipes under the concrete  floor and they took these pipes up and laid new pipes under the
concrete floor on 8 March  2019, exactly as Mrs A said. Mrs A says the contractors showed 
her the leaking pipes and after this work was done  the flat started  to dry out. I am not 
persuaded that this was done  as a preventative measure, or as elimination  only.  Nothing  in 
the records now provided by British Gas suggest  that. And I would have expected  some  
discussion between British Gas and its contractors to authorise  work which  it says was not 
covered by the policy but which was done  purely  as a precaution. Theres  no evidence of 
any such discussion and this is not reflected in the job sheets left with Mrs A.
I also note that it was suspected much earlier on that there was a leak in this vicinity. A job
note dated 29 November 2018 says there  was a possible leak from pipework under the floor
and thats why a thermo  imaging test was booked. The engineer  that attended to do that test
instead said the leak was from the mains riser pipes but that has never been established.
These were  checked separately by the building manager and no leak was found. There  is
no evidence that the pipes that British Gas says were incorrectly  installed were leaking at all.
The pipes under the concrete were  mentioned  again  on 8 December 2018.  It also appears
that the work  done on 4 and 8 March 2019  stopped  the leak, as Mrs A says her flat started  to
dry out after that.
Ref: DRN65930915I am therefore satisfied  that there was a leak ongoing since November 2018, in the pipes
under the floor, which  was finally repaired in March 2019.
British Gas says that, as the initial claim was for a leak, water damage to the property  would
have been a consequence of that and therefore is not covered. That would be the case,
provided it had resolved  the leak competently and within  a reasonable time. However, it
appears a leak was left to continue for around four months (in addition  to the leak from the
tank in the airing cupboard also left to continue)  and the damage became  much worse as a
direct result. As the damage could therefore have been avoided  if British Gas had resolved
the leak earlier, it is responsible for the damage.
British Gas has already  carried out some repairs to the walls, which  I understand were
satisfactory. Mrs A has claimed under her home insurance for new carpets but British  Gas
should reimburse the excess she will be required to pay. Or Mrs A can choose  to withdraw
her home insurance claim and British Gas should reimburse the cost of the replacement
carpets.
Mrs A has also asked  for reimbursement of various expenses and compensation for the
trouble caused  to her. I can see there were numerous attendances and phone calls  too
many to specify  in order to progress  this matter and significant  damage and upheaval
caused by the damage to her flat. This would  inevitably have been a very difficult  time for
Mrs A, which  it seems  to me could have been avoided  had the leak detection  gone  ahead
properly in November  2018.
I consider it appropriate  for a global compensation award to take account of those expenses
and the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mrs A over a significant  period of time.
Overall, I consider the total sum of £2,000 to be appropriate.
Mrs A is still concerned there was still an ongoing leak elsewhere  in the flat and says there
are still high damp readings. There have been several further  checks and no other leaks
found. I can understand why she is concerned but without any further evidence, I do not
consider that I can make  British Gas do anything further. If however, such readings start to
go up, or there  is any other sign of a continuing  leak, British Gas should go back  and carry
out further tests.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require  it to pay
Mrs A the sum of £2,000  for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of this
claim; and pay £500 in respect of the excess under her home insurance policy.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mrs A says she accepts the sum of £2,000.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
British Gas's handling of this claim in the form of general damages and accepts the £500.00 
in respect of the excess under her home  contents insurance policy.  However, she has asked  
that I reconsider my decision and also make an award for her out-of-pocket expenses 
Ref: DRN65930916(special damages) as this was a breach of contract  by British Gas,  so she is put back  in the 
position she was in before British Gas committed that breach. She also says she has not 
been adequately compensated for other  aspects  of the matter.  Mrs A says the following  
issues have not been properly considered or taken account of in the compensation so far: 
Even though  she has been paid a cash settlement  for the carpet and underlay by her 
home contents insurer, British Gas told her it would pay for this and then reneged  on 
this offer.  As it breached  its contract  with her, British Gas should also pay her £2,000  
for new carpet and underlay.
And she is now in her third winter  without carpet because this matter  has still not 
been resolved.  
British Gas has used  her home contents  insurance to claim money so that she can 
replace her carpet,  which  is unreasonable.
Her home insurance premiums will be increased for a good number of years and 
shes lost her 'no claims'  bonus',  so should  also be compensated  for this accordingly.
She was unable to attend the funeral of a friend  on 30 November 2019,  as British 
Gas was meant to attend to carry out the thermal imaging  but he refused to do this 
test. This left her with the leak ongoing  until this was done on 4 March 2019  and the 
repairs carried out on 8 March  2019.
British Gas should pay for a replacement water pump (£500.00-£600.00) so she can 
be sure there are no other leaks before she has the new carpets laid.  
She has rented her flat out in the past.  If this damage had occurred then, her tenant 
would have been entitled to be put in alternative  accommodation and be paid 
compensation. Shed also have lost rent and been arrears  with her mortgage and 
doubts shed have been able to get another mortgage because of this. This has not  
been taken into account and she is deeply  worried about renting her flat out again. 
Her flat was completely unsaleable and the value of her flat considerably  decreased. 
How would she answer questions regarding this if she does come to sell her flat?
Her flat was uninhabitable.  In addition, she had an accident  in March 2019,  which  left 
her with two broken  arms and two damaged knees. She had to stay at her flat but 
was continually tripping over damaged/wet carpet and gripper rods.
She was unable to have friends  to her home  because of this horrendous situation.
She lost two electrical points and her telephone land line because of the damp in the 
walls.
One of British Gass  engineers became extremely unpleasant during one visit (this 
was while she had two broken arms in plaster/splint). She called British Gas while  the 
engineer was present to complain about  this.
British Gas showed a complete lack of empathy  for her situation and she was made 
to feel she was being unreasonable and her assertion that the leak was ongoing was 
dismissed. 
She had to wait five months for a proper diagnosis to be made by British  Gas. 
She had to buy a dehumidifier  for £149.99, plus warranty at £46.99  and a new duvet 
at £35.20. She also had to pay £53.57 in extra mobile phone  charges because of all 
the calls she had to make to British  Gas to resolve this. She wants  these sums 
reimbursed.
The stress and inconvenience of having  to put up with the cold, horrendous smell, 
mould, damp carpet  and walls; anxiety and worry and sleepless nights; and the 
embarrassment of the water going into the flat below  causing  relations to breakdown 
with the people living there.  Also, her next door neighbour was extremely  supportive 
throughout this matter.  Both neighbours deserve compensation for with what they 
have been through too. 
Ref: DRN65930917She was unable to do extra hours at work especially at Christmas because of the 
situation and worry about water leaking  into the flat below. 
Her flat still had damp patches on the floor and in the airing cupboard  in July 2019. A 
British Gas engineer  came back out to check for further issues  in July 2019. He 
confirmed that the second  hot water  tank was indeed leaking and that was why it was 
replaced. She has had to wait for the flat to dry out and still does  not completely trust 
that her flat is leak free.
In total, Mrs A wants the sum of £5,390.75,  as she says she has not been adequately 
compensated for all the above  and the £2,500 I provisionally awarded barely covers her out-
of-pocket expenses and doesnt cover damages for the stress and worry she has been 
through. 
British Gas has confirmed  it has read my provisional  decision and it has nothing more  to 
add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I provisionally decided  that British Gas had failed to properly deal with Mrs As claim. This is 
a breach of its contract with her and so she is, as she says, entitled to be put back (as far as 
is possible) to the position she was in before British Gas made any errors. This can include 
reimbursement for any financial losses (expenses  she has incurred  solely due to errors 
made by British Gas) and compensation for any distress  and/or inconvenience. 
However, this does not mean being  paid for the carpet twice.  Mrs A claimed for the carpet 
under her home insurance.  She could otherwise have claimed this cost from British  Gas. But 
as she has already been indemnified for this expense, she is not able to claim for the same 
loss from British Gas again.  If the amount she has been paid by her home insurer is not 
sufficient to be able to replace the carpet and damaged underlay, she needs to revert  to her 
home insurer. 
Mrs A has also been reluctant to have new carpet put down, as she is concerned theres  still 
leaks but, as there is no convincing  evidence of this, I cant say British  Gas is responsible for 
any additional time she has spent without carpet because of this.  
I did, however, provisionally determine that British  Gas should pay the excess  Mrs A paid 
under her home insurance  policy, as she only had to make that claim because of the errors 
made by British Gas.  Mrs A told the investigator that her home insurance claim has been 
settled and she has received a cash  payment for the carpets.  Given this, I think British Gas 
should therefore pay interest  on the £500  excess, at our usual rate, from the date Mrs A paid 
the excess (or the date it was offset against any cash settlement to her by her home  insurer)   
to the date of reimbursement. 
Mrs A has also asked  that British Gas pay for a new pump.  Theres no evidence  of any 
further leaks so, while  I understand Mrs As concern, I do not consider British  Gas is required 
to pay for a new pump. In any case, the pump has been tested independently and has not 
been shown to be faulty, so there  is no convincing evidence that this needs  to be replaced.  
Ref: DRN65930918Mrs A has also said her flats sale value may have been affected and if she had been  renting 
it out during this time,  shed  have  lost rent, had to incur additional  accommodation costs  for 
her tenants  and might have been at risk with her mortgage. This is all entirely possible but I 
can only consider  what  did actually happen and the losses (if any) that did arise.  The 
evidence is that the leaks have been  dealt with and there is no reason to think the sale value 
of the flat has been adversely affected  (Mrs A has not provided  any evidence  to suggest it 
has). Mrs A has also queried  what she should tell any future  buyers about this matter. It is  
possible she may be asked if she has made  any insurance claims, if she chooses  to sell her 
flat. However, as the leak has now been dealt with and the flat will be restored  to its original 
condition (there is no evidence of any other  outstanding works - British Gas has repaired the 
walls and Mrs A has been  indemnified the cost of replacing the carpets) I am not persuaded 
that there  is any direction or award I can make against British Gas in relation to this. 
 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mrs A raised again that she wants  reimbursement of 
various expenses  (including  for phone calls, a dehumidifier and a duvet, totalling  just under 
£300). Mrs A also said again shed lost out on paid work and also that her home insurance 
premium would be increased as a result of this claim. Theres no independent evidence of 
any loss of earnings or of an increase in premiums (although it is possible they will increase).  
These matters were all raised  before and I did consider them  in making  my provisional  
decision. In my provisional  decision I acknowledged the ordeal Mrs A had been thorough  
and said I can see there were numerous  attendances and phone calls  too many  to specify  
 in order to progress this matter and significant  damage and upheaval  caused  by the 
damage to her flat. This would inevitably have been  a very difficult  time for Mrs A, which  it 
seems to me could  have  been avoided had the leak detection gone ahead  properly in 
November 2018. 
Overall, rather  than considering each  item separately, I determined that a global 
compensation award, to take account of the expenses  Mrs A had listed  and the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs A over a significant  period of time, was appropriate. This 
included the way the claim was dealt with; the conditions she had to live in; the fact she 
could not socialise as normal; the fact she had to miss a funeral;  additional  appointments, 
phone calls and everything  else Mrs A had raised.  I provisionally determined that the total 
sum of £2,000  was warranted. I am not persuaded to change this figure, which  I still consider 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case and is in line with awards  made in 
similar cases.
Finally, Mrs A also says her neighbours deserve compensation due to the trouble they were  
put to and the damage to their properties. However,  I have  no power to award compensation 
to any person other than Mrs A.
Ref: DRN65930919my final decision 
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to do the 
following: 
pay Mrs A the sum of £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its 
handling of this claim; and 
pay £500 in respect  of the excess under her home insurance policy,  together  with 
interest at 8% simple  per annum, from the date she paid this to the date of 
reimbursement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or
reject my decision  before 11 February  2021.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6593091