K820x#14complaint
Miss J says Bank  of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (BOS)  mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss J bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  by completing a paper application form .
At the time,  Miss J says she wasnt working so she didnt have any employee benefits  (such 
as sick pay).  She also said she didnt have any other means available to help her repay the 
credit card should she be unable to work.  But her credit agreement  shows she was 
employed as a cashier. As that document is from the time of sale,  I think  thats more likely  to 
be right and she was employed. Miss J hasnt told us if she had any employee  benefits 
provided by her employer.  Miss J has said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Miss Js credit card balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 78p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit  card account  closed in 2006. 
Miss Js representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Js representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss J wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Js 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Miss J about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss J and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Miss J received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN65961732Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN65961733The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Js 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BOS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Js complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Miss J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Miss J sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss J, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss J suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss J and 
BOS, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss J know she had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN65961734Miss J says she completed a postal  application form to apply for her credit card and PPI. But 
BOS says that it was sold in branch.  Ive seen a screenshot of BOSs  records  which show  
this was a branch  sale. This is a record from the time of sale.  Ive also seen a copy of her 
credit agreement  this is not completed  by hand, but the entries  are made  electronically  
which usually means that it was completed  in branch by an advisor. So, I think  its more 
likely that it was a branch  sale. 
The credit agreement had a separate section to select PPI  called credit  card repayments 
cover at the time. There is an X placed in the box requesting cover. I think this was placed in 
the box after Miss J agreed to take it. I say this because from our experience of how these 
sales were usually made, the completed  forms normally reflected the discussion, details and 
selections customer made when they were in branch.
I can also see there was another product that Miss J couldve selected, but she didnt 
choose to take this out. So, I think Miss J ought  to have known she couldve done  the same  
for PPI if she didnt want it. She has signed the form to confirm the selections made. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss J knew  the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says it provided advice during this sale. Miss J hasnt  said whether she agrees. 
Looking at what happened when BOS sold Miss J the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided 
advice. I say this because from what Ive seen of other cases where BOS sold PPI in branch, 
with an advisor present,  BOS normally provided advice. So, I think  its more likely that it did 
provide advice.
This means  BOS had to advise Miss J with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BOS took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Miss J. It seems Miss J cant remember clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting in branch.  The adviser had some  limited information 
about Miss Js financial  circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  to show the adviser  
took steps to establish whether Miss J would have been caught by the significant  exclusions 
and limitations which  might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  BOS considered whether  Miss J had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that BOS  did all it should  have  
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss J given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BOS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Miss J, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Ref: DRN65961735-Miss J met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss J had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Miss Js ability to continue to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for any employee benefits 
she might  have  been entitled  to. And she told us she didnt have any savings  or other  
means to repay her credit card if she was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss J. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss J. From 
what we know, there  was nothing about Miss Js employment or occupation which 
would have made it difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  her ability to claim. There were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and 10 months for unemployment, it still provided useful cover  given  
Miss Js circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Miss J sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BOS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss J was given a very broad  description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss J would have been told this  at the very least  during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Miss J would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was.
Im also satisfied Miss J would have realised  the policy wasnt  free and its likely she would  
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether BOS  gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss J 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary 
Miss J might  have been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her decision on 
the things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss J, Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Miss J. Im not persuaded that BOS gave Miss J all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN65961736Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Js representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Js. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Js representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss J about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss J has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Miss J? To what extent did Miss  J suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Miss J. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss J 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss J 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that BOS took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss J, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss J has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Miss J would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss J says she would  not have  taken it out and believes  that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN65961737return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss J had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Js circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss J ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that BOS didnt make  clear the on-going  cost information. So while  Miss J didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss J thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Miss J knew about or should  have known about or for which she received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss J 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss J be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss J pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss J from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Miss Js circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Miss J didnt  have any pre-
existing medical conditions and as far as we know was also in permanent employment.  So, I 
still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss J would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Ref: DRN65961738If Miss J had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Miss Js 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss J would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting, and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding any employment benefits she mightve  had. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Miss Js representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss J would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss J 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss J believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss J in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Miss J compensation, as that would put her in a 
Ref: DRN65961739better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss J thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Miss J, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Js representative says a court might take if it 
were to find BOS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Miss J and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that BOS had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss J in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6596173