K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, gave him a loan he couldnt 
afford to repay.
background
In April 2017 Mr B borrowed £300 from Mr Lender  to be repaid over six months. The first, 
and highest, repayment amount was £143.60.  Mr B says that Mr Lender failed to carry out 
proper checks and if it had done  so it would  have seen the loan wasnt affordable.  He hasnt  
been able to repay the loan and it is now part of a debt management plan.
The adjudicator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld. She said she thought the 
checks Mr Lender  had done before approving the loan went  far enough  and it wasnt  wrong  
to lend to Mr B at the time.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that if Mr Lender had looked at his bank statement it would have 
seen that he had a history  of repeated short term borrowing and it didnt verify his disposable  
income.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether 
Mr B could afford to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr B was borrowing, and his lending history, but 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Mr B was given a loan where there  was an expectation hed repay what  hed borrowed plus 
the interest over six months. As a result, the checks Mr Lender  carried out had to provide 
enough information for it to be able to understand whether  Mr B could afford to make these 
repayments, of just under £150  per month,  when  they fell due.
Mr Lender has told us about the checks  it did before lending  to Mr B. It asked him for details 
of his income and his normal expenditure before  agreeing the loan. And it gathered 
information on Mr Bs circumstances from a credit  reference agency.  
From what  I have  seen, the credit  check results that Mr Lender  received didnt show Mr B 
had any dependency  on short term lending.  And the checks didnt show  any other problems 
with Mr Bs finances such as delinquent accounts or county court  judgements. So I dont 
think the credit check results should  have caused Mr Lender  to think it needed  to dig deeper 
into Mr Bs circumstances.
Mr Lender has given  us evidence showing it asked Mr B about his monthly income when he 
applied for the loan.  Its recorded this as £1,075.  I have seen a copy  of the screen  shot of a 
few transactions  from his bank statement that Mr B sent to Mr Lender  and this confirms the 
amount. Mr Lender also asked Mr B about  his normal monthly living expenses and any 
regular financial commitments. He told them that these  totalled £530, which covered such  
items as food, travel, other loans and other regular outgoings. This left Mr B with a 
disposable monthly income of more than £500.
Ref: DRN61969722Mr B needed  to repay just under £150  in the first month and the monthly  repayment  
decreased each month to £62.80 in month  six. This was Mr Bs first loan from Mr Lender 
and, given the size of the loan in relation to his income, I think the checks Mr Lender did 
were proportionate. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels that Mr Lender should  have looked  at his bank statements to 
check on his true financial situation.  But Mr Lender  wasnt required to do this. I consider  it 
was entitled to rely on the information  that Mr B provided to it. Its checks  showed  the loan 
was affordable so I dont  think  Mr Lender  did anything  wrong in giving  this loan to Mr B.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6196972