K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the service hes received from Hastings  Insurance  Services Limited 
(Hastings) since making a claim on his home insurance policy.
background
Mr K bought his home insurance policy  through  Hastings  in 2017. Hastings is an insurance 
intermediary or broker. So it might recommend and/or sell policies, but it doesnt  underwrite 
them  that is, it doesnt assess the risks associated with providing the insurance or set the 
premiums to be paid. Nor is it responsible for meeting any claims that might  arise. Thats the 
responsibility of the insurer, which Ill call business A.
Mr K made a claim in 2018, when his neighbour damaged his house. Hes made several 
complaints about  how the claim was dealt with and a subsequent  premium increase, 
amongst other things.  Hastings role in these  complaints has been, by and large, to act as a 
go-between and pass  information  back and forth between Mr K and business A.
Mr K complained about what both Hastings and business A has done.
Hastings responded to explain  the latest position with regard to Mr Ks complain about  
business A  and acknowledged it hadnt  always kept him up to date as it should have. It 
sent Mr K £50 compensation for this.
Our investigator thought this was fair, but Mr K remains unhappy, so Ive been asked to 
decide this complaint. This is our final input  on the merits of this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity,  this decision is only about  what Hastings did, rather than anything business A is 
responsible for. I understand  Mr K has made  a separate  complaint to business A.
Hastings has acknowledged  it didnt always process things as quickly  as it could have on Mr 
Ks behalf. Its apologised and sent him £50 to make up for this. Ive looked at its internal 
files and Mr Ks complaint, and Im satisfied  the £50 is fair, as Hastings did cause some  
unnecessary delays, and it could have  updated Mr K more often than it did. I dont think  
Hastings needs  to anything more.
Ref: DRN62087352my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, and I make no order against Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6208735