K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Virgin Money  plc (Virgin)  ended  the promotional rate on his credit card 
after he missed one payment by a period of three days. He also complains that Virgin should 
have contacted him to tell him specifically that he would be charged interest. 
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered the relevant facts  and is known to both Mr T 
and Virgin  so I wont repeat it all. Therefore,  if Ive not mentioned  something  its not because  
Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues.  
In summary,  Mr T held a credit card with Virgin and was due to make  a payment on or 
before the 23 July 2018. He was three  days late in making that payment and as a result 
Virgin removed the promotional offer rate attached  to his account. Mr T complained  to Virgin  
as he felt this was unfair, and he said he would like the promotional rate reinstating and any 
interest applied, refunded  to him.
Virgin explained they werent able to do that, because they had simply acted in accordance  
with the account terms and conditions. As such they did not feel they had done  anything 
wrong.
Mr T was unhappy with Virgins response  and so an adjudicator from this service  looked into 
the complaint  but didnt think Virgin had acted unfairly. As Mr T didnt  agree,  the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate  so to do. What I need to decide is whether  Virgin  acted 
fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr T. My aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable 
outcome has been achieved,  which means  taking into account both Virgins view and that of 
Mr T. I do not perform the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  That 
falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  Authority. 
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Looking at the available  evidence, I 
think we have an unfortunate situation  here. It is a fact that Mr T was only a few days  late in 
making the July payment. 
However, it is also correct to say that when he took out the credit card he agreed to be 
bound by the terms and conditions applicable  to that account. Section 7.5 of the terms and 
conditions says this;
If we do not receive  the Minimum Payment when it is due or you go over your credit 
limit, we will withdraw the promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement  
period. When a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, we charge  the current 
standard interest rate that applies to that transaction.
In addition, the actual credit  card statements also make this clear  and use the same wording. 
Ref: DRN67745982I appreciate the argument Mr T makes, that being  that the wording referred to above is not 
readily available on the mobile website, which in his view means he would have  been  
required to remember the terms  and conditions he signed up to. I do not expect any 
customer to have to remember all the terms and conditions  that would be virtually  
impossible. But the point is that those  are what the customer  agreed to. Terms and 
Conditions are there to govern the contractual relationship between the parties and to 
provide certainty.  They are to be referred to when disputes or differences  of opinion arise.  In 
and of itself, the condition  regarding missing a payment and the consequences which  follow 
is not unfair in my view. It is clear and transparent  and there  to be read.
As our adjudicator pointed out, as a fact this wording was available on the mobile  website 
albeit Mr T would have had to navigate to it. But that is not an unreasonable expectation. It is 
also available on the statements Mr T would have been able to get either  by post or on line. 
So it is very clear to me that the information  was there for Mr T to view,  and he was able to 
know and or find out what the consequences  of missing a payment  would  be. So I cant  say 
Virgin have acted unfairly here. 
Mr T has also raised the point that he feels Virgin should have been  more  proactive and 
made him aware by text, email or letter of the change in interest rate following his missed 
payment. Im afraid I cannot agree with that view because  it would  simply be duplicating the 
information Virgin had already provided in their terms and conditions - and continued  to 
provide with each  monthly statement.
I know Mr T will be disappointed with my decision  but I have come  to the same conclusion  
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. I do not think  Virgin has acted unfairly, and so I 
am not upholding  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Virgin  Money plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6774598