K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1999. Mr C says Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt  planning  to uphold the complaint. 
Bank of Ireland  replied to say it accepted  that decision. Mr C didnt respond.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold 
because:
I think Bank of Ireland made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. He requested information  about  it when applying  for his mortgage 
and completed a separate application form specifically for the PPI.
Bank of Ireland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. When  I say this I mean  that Bank of Ireland  didnt consider Mr Cs specific 
circumstances and make a personal recommendation to take the policy.  Mr C described a 
phone call where he was sold the policy on the basis of the risk of repossession and the 
relative cheapness of the policy. And he then applied by completing an application form 
that had been  sent to him. However,  Bank of Ireland  did have  to make sure Mr C got the 
information he needed to decide  if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Bank of Ireland gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
So I dont  think better information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the 
cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what hes said about being made 
redundant in 2005 and from that point onwards not being employed in a way that would 
allow him to make a claim. But these points dont  change  my decision.
It appears Mr C didnt  make a claim on the policy after he was made  redundant. He says that 
was at the advice of Bank of Ireland which told him he couldnt claim at that time (due to 
what had happened  to the company he was working  for) but to keep  paying  the premiums  
until he could.
There appears to be no other  evidence  to corroborate what Mr C says on this point. So I 
cant say that advice came from Bank of Ireland  because it could have come from the 
insurer. And I dont know if what Mr C was told was accurate  whether  or not he could 
successfully have claimed at that time or later. And its not within  my power to consider that 
as part of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN60232132Ive also thought about the commission Mr C paid on his PPI  and whether Bank of Ireland 
treated him unfairly.
Bank of Ireland  has told us that the commission for Mr Cs PPI was less than half of what he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Bank of Ireland has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like it is right  Mr Cs commission  was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think Bank  of Ireland needed  to tell him about  the 
commission  so I dont  think  Bank  of Ireland  treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr C back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
Finally, Mr C is saying  that from when he lost his job in 2005 there was effectively nothing to 
insure  because being unemployed the cover was of no use to him. And his later 
employment was of a nature that the PPI wouldnt have covered. I explained in my 
provisional decision that Mr C should take up those issues  with the insurer  because  I cannot 
consider or decide those issues as part of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not planning  to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6023213