K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), mis-sold him 
the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has said it has no further  comments to make, following receipt  of my provisional 
decision. I havent received any additional comments  to consider from either Mr P or his 
representatives. 
As I havent  received any new information which requires comment, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr P any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr P the difference 
between what Mr P owes  and what he wouldve owed  if the commission and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr P 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN67043122my final decision
I dont  think  the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so it follows  that Barclays Bank UK Plc does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67043123copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr P says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), mis-sold him 
the PPI.
background
Mr P applied  for a credit  card in 2000  and at the same time a PPI policy was taken out. 
This policy provided cover for claims for accident,  sickness and unemployment.  It would 
pay out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She said that there wasnt enough evidence  to show  
that Mr P was made  aware  the policy was optional, Mr P didnt  have to sign separately for 
the policy and that there wasnt  enough  evidence to show that it was clear  the PPI and the 
credit card were two separate products. She also said that the policy  terms for people on 
fixed term contracts with their employers were  limited, meaning  Mr P may have found it 
more difficult to claim. She said that, if this had been  brought to Mr Ps attention  he wouldnt 
have taken it out.
Barclays disagreed  with the adjudicator.  It said that it was clear  the policy  was optional  from 
the application form. And it didnt think that the limitation around  fixed term contracts would 
have been something that would have affected  Mr Ps decision to take the cover. As a 
result the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
I intend to not uphold this complaint as I dont think the policy wasnt  mis-sold.  Ill explain 
why.
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr P didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out. Ive been  given a copy of the credit card application form which  was completed at the 
time, however, the quality of the copy is quite  poor and it is difficult to read. Barclays has 
therefore supplied  a sample of the application.  On this sample I can see that there is a 
separate box about PPI and there  are two options   one to take out the PPI and another to 
decline the cover. On Mr Ps form I can see that a mark has been  placed in the top box, 
which on the sample document is the box to agree to take out the cover.  So I think  that it is 
more likely than not that Mr P ticked the box to agree to take it out. Mr P has signed the 
form which suggests that he agreed with everything  that had been entered.  If Mr P didnt 
want to take out the cover  he could have  placed a tick in the no box.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told I think Barclays  made it clear that the 
policy was optional and that Mr P agreed  to take it out, knowing he could refuse  it if he 
didnt want it.
Ref: DRN67043124The policy was taken  out via a postal  application,  so there wasnt  any interaction with a 
Barclays member  of staff when Mr P applied for the cover. This means Barclays didnt  
recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have 
to make sure Mr P got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for him.
When the complaint  was first received by this service, Mr P said he couldnt  remember 
where he was working at the time,  however, he later informed us that he was employed 
as an apprentice on a fixed term contract  which was for five years. He stated that the 
contract was due to expire in 2002  but that he was guaranteed a job role at the end of the 
apprenticeship.
When looking at the policy terms and conditions, I note that the policy  doesnt provide 
cover for unemployment claims if the reason  for the unemployment is the end of a fixed  
term contract. I havent seen anything to show that Barclays made  this significant term 
clear to Mr P when  he took out the policy  there doesnt appear  to be any mention of this 
on the application form and the exclusion is on page  four of a four page policy document 
so I dont think  it was particularly prominent.  So I need to consider whether Barclays 
failure to make this term clear to Mr P may have affected his decision to take out the 
policy.
Ive thought about this very carefully  and I think that if Mr Ps contract was for five years  
and he knew that his ongoing  employment  wasnt guaranteed,  this may have made him 
think twice about  whether  the policy was of benefit  to him. But Mr P has told us he was 
guaranteed a job after his apprenticeship had finished. So, even if he had been made fully 
aware of this limitation on the policy, I dont think he would have considered  this as being 
something that would have affected  him, based on his knowledge of his ongoing 
employment situation. I think Mr P would still have taken out the policy.
Its possible that there may have been  other  information that Barclays gave Mr P about  the 
PPI that wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI by 
requesting it on the application form - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected 
by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr P, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN67043125what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr P any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr P the difference 
between what Mr P owes  and what he wouldve owed  if the commission and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr P 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my provisional decision
I dont  think  the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so it follows  that Barclays Bank UK Plc does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN6704312