K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that in 2011, National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest)  mis-sold her a 
packaged bank  account called an Advantage Blue account.
Mrs M paid a monthly fee for the account  and received several potential benefits  in return. 
She thinks that Natwest should  refund  her all the fees she paid, plus interest.
(In 2012, Natwest switched many  of its customers,  including Mrs M, from Advantage Blue 
accounts to Select Silver accounts.  However,  for simplicity,  I have  referred to Mrs Ms 
account as an Advantage  Blue account throughout this decision). 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Ms complaint and didnt think  that 
Natwest had mis-sold the Advantage  Blue account to her. 
Mrs M didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review 
her case.  So it has come  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mrs Ms case. Ive looked  into 
everything that Mrs M and Natwest have  told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs M has banked  with Natwest for quite a long time. I understand from Natwest that: 
in 2007, she opened a fee-free  account
in 2011, she switched to the Advantage Blue account, for which she paid a fee
in 2019, she switched back to a fee-free  account.
I think that Natwests records  about  this are probably reliable and I have taken this account  
history to be accurate.  
On our questionnaire,  Mrs M said that Natwest recommended the account  to her during a 
meeting with one of its representatives, whereas Natwest has said that it sold the account to 
her over the phone on a non-advised  or information-only  basis. At that time, Natwest often  
sold packaged bank  accounts without making a recommendation, where it would tell 
customers about its accounts, but without giving advice, and allow them  to decide if they 
wanted to buy a particular account.  It did this both over the phone  and face-to-face at 
meetings.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Natwest did recommend the account to Mrs M, but I 
fully accept that it may well have  discussed  the account with her in one of its branches.  So I 
have assessed  Mrs Ms complaint on the grounds that Natwest sold the Advantage Blue 
account to her on a non-advised basis during a meeting at one of its branches. This meant 
that Natwest had to tell Mrs M about  the account  clearly and fairly and give her a choice 
Ref: DRN60160552about buying it, but didnt  have to check that the account was right for her personal 
circumstances.
Mrs M has said that during the meeting Natwest told her that if she bought  the Advantage 
Blue account she would be able to get an overdraft, but after she took the account, it never  
allowed her one. Mrs M thinks that Natwest misled her about this, and the crux of her 
complaint is that she only bought the account  for an overdraft, and wouldnt have taken it if 
Natwest had not misled her. 
It is very rare for Natwest and other  High Street banks  to decide whether a customer  can 
have an overdraft based on the type of account she or he holds. Banks may well consider 
the way a customer uses an account,  such as how much a customer  pays  in and takes  out 
of the account  each  month, which may also influence  a customers  credit  score,  but not the 
sort of account the customer holds. 
Well over seven years have passed  since the meeting took place, and I accept  that Mrs M is 
doing her best to remember what Natwest  said at the time, but I find it unlikely that Natwest  
told her that she would get an overdraft if she changed accounts.  Of course,  Natwest may 
well have told her that it was more likely to offer her an overdraft if she managed  her account 
in a certain way, but this is not the same  as telling her to change accounts to get an 
overdraft. I doubt that Natwest  did this.
Although the main  point of Mrs Ms complaint concerns the overdraft, she also mentioned 
that she didnt  use the benefits  that came  with the account. However, she has told us that 
she registered a mobile phone  for insurance  cover and attempted  to make a claim.  And 
although on our questionnaire she ticked a box to say she never travelled, she has also 
mentioned that she called the travel insurer to ask for proof she was covered. So I think 
these benefits  may well have been  of potential use to her. 
I accept that Mrs M may not have wanted or needed all the benefits that came with the 
account, but packaged bank accounts cant usually be tailored for individual customers.  And 
Im satisfied that Natwest told her enough  about the main benefits available from the account  
for her to decide  if she wanted or needed them.
 
Mrs M had held the fee-free account for several years before switching to the Advantage 
Blue account, and I havent seen anything to make me think that Natwest told her she had to 
change accounts,  so it seems to me that she had a choice to keep her fee-free account or to 
switch. 
So, taking everything  into account, I dont think Natwest mis-sold the Advantage Blue 
account to Mrs M. 
I also understand that during this investigation  there has been some confusion  about 
whether Mrs M paid an additional  premium for the travel insurance.  This confusion seems to 
have started from a comment Natwest made in one of its letters to Mrs M, which  it now says 
was incorrect. I believe  that both parties now accept  that Mrs M didnt pay any extra  for the 
travel insurance and I havent  considered  this point within this decision.  This means that Mrs 
M may raise it further with Natwest if she so wishes. But I cant give her any advice about 
this, or suggest how Natwest should respond.
Similarly, Mrs M has also said that when she tried to claim on the mobile phone insurance, 
the insurer said it would charge her a higher excess than she had been led to believe. I 
Ref: DRN60160553dont know if Mrs M has raised this directly with the insurer, and I have not considered it 
here. So she is also free to raise this issue with the insurer if she wants to. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Ms complaint about  National 
Westminster Bank Plc. I am not going  to tell it to give her any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6016055