K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc has been unable to provide him with a copy of call 
recordings connected to a bank transfer he authorised in February  2018.
background
Mr T authorised two bank  transfer payments on 2 February 2018. He says he spoke to 
Santander in connection with these  payments  on 2 February 2018 and 3 February 2018. 
Mr T says he has asked  for copies of the call recordings from those dates on a number of 
occasions, but was ultimately told by Santander in September  2018 that it no longer held the 
recordings and so was unable to provide them.
Santander says that the first record it holds of Mr T requesting the recordings was on 
10 August 2018  - during  a telephone  call it received from Mr T. It accepts that on that 
occasion it failed  to handle Mr Ts request appropriately. But it says that the call recordings 
had already been deleted  from its records by that date, in line with its normal  retention  
timescales.
Mr T complained to Santander about  its inability to provide the call recordings. Santander 
offered Mr T £50 compensation for poor handling of his request on 10 August and 
specifically for the delay  in letting Mr T know the call recordings were no longer available. 
But Santander said it could not provide the recordings  requested because these had been 
deleted prior to it receiving a request from Mr T. Mr T didnt accept Santanders response to 
his complaint. He requested again  that it should  provide the call recordings.
Our investigator considered Mr Ts complaint. The investigator acknowledged  Santander  had 
taken longer than it ought in its initial response to Mr Ts request for the call recordings. He 
thought that Santander  was entitled to decide  how long it deemed it should retain call 
recordings subject to the relevant regulation in this area. So he didnt think  Santander  was at 
fault here.
Mr T didnt  agree. He said hed first requested the call recordings  the day after the calls took 
place. Mr T said he accepted that if hed called weeks or months after the date of the calls 
he could understand why the calls might not have been available, but this hadnt  been the 
case, he had requested  the recordings just after the calls had taken place. He asked for this 
matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it seems  to me that the fundamental disagreement here is the question of 
when Mr T first requested  the call recordings. Mr T essentially is complaining that Santander  
was at fault for deleting the relevant call recordings after hed requested  them.
Mr T explains he initially requested the call recordings in February 2018, and says he did so 
on more than one other  occasion prior to August 2018. On the other  hand,  Santander  states 
that it has no record of receiving such a request from Mr T at any time prior to the request 
that both sides  acknowledge took place  on 10 August 2018. 
Ref: DRN61144462In a situation such as this one, where the two sides to a dispute are in disagreement about 
the facts, I am required to decide what I consider most likely to have happened based  on the 
balance of the evidence available to me. 
Ive carefully considered  Mr Ts recollections.  Ive also given careful consideration to the 
evidence Santander  has provided. 
While Santander no longer holds a copy of the call where Mr T says he would  have first 
requested call recordings, it has a call note from the person he spoke to. This call note 
shows it was logged  at the time of the call on 3 February where Mr T says he first requested 
a copy of the call recordings from 2 February. The note includes information about what was 
discussed. But it doesnt include any reference to a request for call recordings. It is possible 
of course that this was asked, but not picked up at the time and/or not noted.
I have listened  to the opening of the call made by Mr T to Santander on 10 August 2018. In 
this, Mr T requests  the call recordings  from the transactions in February 2018. But there is 
no mention that this is a repeated request, or one that had been  made  before. If there had 
been mention  of an earlier request here, this evidence would perhaps have supported Mr Ts 
recollections of having  previously requested  the call recordings. But, taken in itself,  this call 
suggests rather that this was the first such request.
In a subsequent call dated  12 September 2018,  Mr T expresses his dissatisfaction  with a 
letter hed received, saying his request had been misunderstood. He states I requested  
recording of two phone calls that I made  to Santander security department or fraud 
department on second and third of February  and I made that request on tenth  of August.
So Mr T confirms  he made  that request on tenth of August, but again there is no mention of 
any previous requests  having been made  or that this was therefore yet another  instance of a 
repeated failure  to handle the request properly. I think it would have been natural for Mr T to 
have explained  this, as something  that would have  undoubtably have added  weight to his 
dissatisfaction with Santander at the time.
I cant know what happened or the full circumstances, and I am reliant in making my findings 
on what I consider the balance  of the evidence shows to be most likely. I am sorry to 
disappoint Mr T, but based on all the evidence available to me, my findings in relation  to 
these call recordings are broadly in line with those  reached by the investigator.
I do not find the available evidence supports a conclusion that Santander deleted the call 
recordings after having received a request from Mr T to provide them. I find that the delay 
that occurred  and which Santander acknowledges, related to the request on 10 August. 
Santander explains that by that point the call recordings were  no longer extant, meaning  the 
delay did not have any material effect on the available  of those recordings. 
Santander offered  compensation for the handling  of the request made  on 10 August, and 
based on the above, I consider the amount offered was fair in the circumstances, and in line 
with what I would expect  to see. Im not persuaded Santander deleted the recordings earlier 
than it should,  or that it ignored  a clear prior request from Mr T in doing so.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr T, and I appreciate this will not be the outcome he was looking 
for. I do not doubt  the strength of his recollections  that hed made the initial request much 
sooner, nor do I disregard how strongly he feels about the matter.  It is simply  the case  
though that the evidence leads me to think the contrary  is most likely here. I am required to 
Ref: DRN61144463reach my decision on the balance of that evidence.  So my final decision is that I do not find 
Santander at fault here.
 
my final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6114446