complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR  Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
21 November 2019, an extract  of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I intended to uphold  Mr S complaint  in part. I said that 
MYJAR shouldnt have given Mr S loans ten to 16. I set out what  I proposed to direct  it to do to 
put matters right.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mr S and MYJAR  indicated that they accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Mr S nor MYJAR  have provided me with anything  further,  I see no reason  to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. So, I dont think  that MYJAR 
should have given Mr S loans  ten to 16. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr S complaint in 
part. I now require MYJAR Limited to;
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans ten to 16;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans  taken from loan ten onwards  means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans ten to 16 should be removed from 
Mr S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR  to take off tax from this interest.  MYJAR must  
give Mr S a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6414679extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr S took out 16 loans with MYJAR from September 2012 to June  2016. Loans 10,11,13  and 15 were 
instalment loans repayable over two, three or six months. The remainder  of the loans  were payday 
loans, repayable in one repayment.  Mr S repaid  all of the loans. A summary of Mr Ss lending  with 
MYJAR is shown as an appendix to this decision.
Mr S says MYJAR  didnt reassess his income and outgoings  when it increased the amount he 
borrowed and the term of the loan. He says that at the relevant time, he was in an active  debt 
management plan and it was clear he couldnt afford to repay the loans. He says that during  the time 
he borrowed from MYJAR his income reduced, which it didnt notice. Mr S wants a refund of charges 
and interest,  with interest.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr S complaint. She said that MYJAR shouldnt  have given Mr S 
loans six or 10-16. The adjudicator set out what MYJAR should do to put matters right.
MYJAR didnt  agree with the adjudicator. It said that loan six was repaid as agreed and was followed  
by an 11-month gap in borrowing. MYJAR said that there was a four-month gap between loans nine 
and ten, which suggested  that Mr S wasnt showing a dependency on this sort of borrowing by loan 
ten.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this 
means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could repay  the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different  things, such  as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN6414679MYJAR was required to establish whether  Mr S could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether 
the loan payments  were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.  Of course, the loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could  sustainably make 
their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in particular  
the customer  should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other reasonable  
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows  that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
After loan six, there was a gap of around 11 months in Mr S borrowing  from MYJAR. I think that 
amounted to a break in lending such that, when  Mr S asked to borrow again  at loan seven, MYJAR 
was entitled to treat him as a new customer. MYJAR has referred to the gap of four months between 
loans nine and ten. I dont think that gap was such that it amounted to a break in Mr S lending from 
MYJAR. So, Im looking at two periods of lending  here: loans one to six and loans  seven to 16.
In relation to loans one to four, given  the repayment amounts, what  was apparent about Mr S 
circumstances at the time and his history with the lender  at that point,  I dont think it wouldve been  
proportionate for MYJAR to ask Mr S for the amount  of information needed  to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything  in the information Mr S provided or the information  MYJAR 
shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying  what Mr S 
said about his finances.  Ive seen  nothing to show that proportionate  checks  would have shown that 
Mr S was in a debt management plan or that his income had reduced.
For loans five and six, I think  MYJAR shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr S 
financial situation. But I havent seen anything in the information provided which  suggests the lender 
wouldve known that Mr S wouldnt have been able to make the repayments for these  loans in a 
sustainable way.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont  think that MYJAR was wrong to give Mr S loans one to six.
The second  chain of borrowing  loans  seven to 16  is a mixture of payday and instalment
loans. I dont think that MYJAR was wrong  to give Mr S loans seven,  eight and nine. Bearing in mind  
that this was a new chain of borrowing and taking into account  the level of repayments,  I dont think  it 
wouldve been  proportionate for MYJAR to ask Mr S for the amount of information needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. Again, there wasnt anything in the information  Mr S provided or the 
information MYJAR shouldve  been  aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it to start 
verifying what Mr S said about his finances.
But by loan ten, Mr S had been borrowing  from MYJAR in this chain of borrowing for over seven 
months. I think at that point,  MYJAR  should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further  loans. I say that because by loan ten, Mr S overall  pattern of borrowing 
suggested he had become  persistently reliant on short-term loans. Mr S had taken out four loans  in 
seven months  and while the amounts he borrowed  varied,  they generally  increased for the rest of the 
period he borrowed from MYJAR. In my view, the pattern of lending itself from loan ten shows that the 
loans from then onwards  were unsustainable.
From loan ten onwards, Mr S was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of settling  a 
previous one. So MYJAR  ought to have  realised  it was more likely  than not Mr S was having to 
borrow further  to cover the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr S 
indebtedness wasnt generally reducing.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  he owed MYJAR. Loan 16 was
taken out over two years after loan seven, which was the first loan in this chain of borrowing. And it 
was for more  than hed initially borrowed  in this chain. Mr S had paid large  amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to MYJAR  over an extended period. So, I dont think that MYJAR should have 
given Mr S loans ten to 16.
Ref: DRN6414679I think that Mr S lost out because MYJAR continued to provide  borrowing from loan ten onwards 
because these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr S indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.  Also, the sheer  number 
of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr S ability to access  mainstream  credit and 
so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost  loans.
So, I intend to uphold Mr S complaint about loans  ten to 16. I intend  to direct MYJAR to put things 
right.
putting things right  what I intend  to direct MYJAR to do
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans ten to 16;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans  taken from loan ten onwards  means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans ten to 16 should  be removed from Mr S credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  MYJAR  to take off tax from this interest.  MYJAR  must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold  Mr S complaint in part. I also intend to direct 
MYJAR Limited to take the steps Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN6414679K821x#15appendix  a summary of Mr S lending  from MYJAR:
Ref: DRN6414679