K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCCF) didnt use extra payments 
she made towards a credit agreement to reduce the amount she had to pay each  month and 
provided poor service.  
 
background
Miss B took this credit  agreement out to fund the purchase of various items from a high-
street retailer. She was told she could make overpayments and these would  reduce  the 
amount she had to pay each month. She made  some overpayments but her monthly 
payment didnt go down. Miss B got in touch with CCCF  but it ignored  her emails and took 
too long to respond. She says this caused financial problems. She wants  CCCF to sort the 
matter out and pay compensation. 
CCCF says theres a problem with its payment system which  means it cant  reduce the 
monthly payment  amount  at the moment.  Its trying to fix this but cant say how long that will 
take. CCCF offered Miss B some alternative ways to pay and agreed  to pay her £50 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator is satisfied that Miss B should  be able to make overpayments to reduce her 
monthly repayments but CCCF cant sort that out at present. She explained that wed expect 
CCCF to offer Miss B an alternative solution  in this situation. She thinks  CCCF did this - by 
offering to refund the overpayments  Miss B made  and explaining she can also use 
overpayments to reduce  the term of the agreement if she wants  to. Our investigator asked 
CCCF if Miss B can make  underpayments manually  going forward. CCCF confirmed this is 
possible, as long as she ensures theres enough credit to meet  the contractual amount due. 
Our investigator didnt  think that was unreasonable. 
Miss B told us that she had to use an overdraft to cover bills because  CCCF  was unable to 
reduce the monthly repayment due in line with her overpayments. Our investigator was 
satisfied that the monthly amount due would only have been  reduced by about £3 - if CCCF 
had been able to lower  the monthly amount.  Shes not persuaded thats  likely  to have had a 
significant impact on Miss Bs finances.  
Our investigator considered the customer  service  issues. She agrees CCCF let Miss B down 
- she wasnt  called back as promised on two occasions, an agent she spoke to early  on was 
unhelpful and CCCF took some time to offer a reasonable resolution. Taking everything into 
account, our investigator  thinks  £50 compensation sounds fair and CCCF  has provided a 
reasonable response to Miss Bs complaint overall.  
Miss B says this is a long-standing issue  which  hasnt been fixed  and CCCF hasnt told its 
customers about that. She doesnt  think our adjudicator looked at her complaint impartially 
and she asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Miss B but Ive 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN65256892I can see that Miss B has strong feelings about  what happened here. I accept she had the 
right to make overpayments towards her account  and the relevant terms and conditions  say 
she could choose  whether  to use those to reduce the time it would take to pay back the 
money she borrowed - or reduce the amount she had to pay each month. 
Miss B made several overpayments and she wanted  CCCF to reduce her monthly direct 
debit to take those  into account.  CCCF said it couldnt do that automatically  because of an IT 
problem but Miss B could make a lower manual payment each month.  I appreciate this may 
not be as convenient for Miss B but I dont  think it was an unreasonable option, in these 
particular circumstances.  And I consider it would probably have the same  effect  overall, in 
terms of the impact on Miss Bs finances. 
I understand Miss B feels its wrong that CCCF  hasnt  been able to sort the IT problem out. 
And she thinks it should be required to tell customers whats going  on in this situation. But, I 
am not a regulator. I dont have the power to tell CCCF how to operate  on a day to day 
basis. Im looking at the circumstances of Miss Bs individual complaint in this decision. 
Im satisfied that CCCF has explained  what happened in response to Miss Bs specific  
complaint. And it has also apologised and acknowledged mistakes were  made  and Miss B 
should have received better service. I have no doubt this has caused Miss B some distress  
and inconvenience.  But, I think the £50 compensation CCCF has paid fairly reflects  that. I 
realise this isnt the outcome Miss B wanted  but I am not persuaded that I can reasonably 
find CCCF  should do more in these circumstances.    
  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6525689