K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  (AXA) has declined his claim for his 
wifes medical expenses. 
background
In May 2018, Mrs B  Mr Bs wife  was taken ill whilst abroad. She was hospitalised for a 
time, but the results were  unclear as to what was making her unwell. It was thought it might 
be due to a virus. 
On their return to the UK in June,  Mrs B saw a consultant  Dr M - who thought Mrs Bs 
symptoms could be because of her alcohol consumption. Mrs B was admitted to a private 
hospital in July 2018 as she continued to be unwell.  AXA declined  to pay for the hospital  
costs relying on the following policy exclusion:
6.2 What  we do not pay for 
(aa) Treatment of or treatment which arises from or is in any way connected with alcohol 
abuse
Mr B complained to AXA that Mrs B did not abuse  alcohol. He has said that she did drink but 
not to excess.  AXA responded explaining  that it was told the reason for Mrs B being 
admitted to hospital  was alcohol related. AXA also explained that the UK Chief Medical 
Officers (CMO) guidance  is that it is safest to not drink more  than 14 units  of alcohol a week 
on a regular basis. Dr M had reported that Mrs B drank around  70 units  per week   based on 
a discussion with Mr and Mrs B. This was subsequently revised down  with Mr B saying     
Mrs B drank on average 20 units per week. 
Mrs B sadly  passed away at the end of 2018.  
Mr B, unhappy with AXAs decision, referred  his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
reviewed the complaint,  but she didnt uphold  it. She thought that because  Mrs B drank in 
excess of the CMOs guidance and her medical notes indicated she was suffering from an 
alcohol related  illness, AXA had applied the policy  exclusion fairly. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for a review,  so the case was 
passed to me. I issued  my provisional  decision  in July 2019 (a copy of my findings is 
attached below);  explaining why I thought the case should be upheld.  But I asked everyone 
to come back with any further comments or evidence before I issued my final decision.
Both parties  said they had received the provisional  decision. Mr B accepted  my findings. 
AXA did not and has provided further comments as to why it thought  Mrs Bs illness was 
alcohol related.  
Ive summarised what it said below:
Dr Ms June 2018 letter clearly  stated her symptoms were  suggestive of being  
alcohol related.  And that Dr Ms follow up letter  was done so under the instruction of 
Mr B and other family  members. 
When Mrs B was admitted to A&E in July 2018,  AXA was told it was alcohol  related.
It appreciated it didnt  define the term alcohol abuse in its policy.
Ref: DRN67856652It believed Mrs B clearly drank  more than 14 units of alcohol a week  on a regular 
basis and developed liver disease.
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I still uphold this complaint. 
I have carefully read the comments provided by AXA, but these dont change  my decision.  It 
still remains that AXAs policy is unclear and doesnt  define the term of what  alcohol  abuse  
is. And it has still not been established that Mrs Bs illness was solely because of her alcohol 
consumption. 
Ive noted AXAs comments  around the health conditions caused  by excessive alcohol 
consumption, but the medical evidence  surrounding Mrs Bs admittance  into hospital in July 
2018 did not conclusively state  that she was suffering from an alcohol  related illness.  
I appreciate that AXA was told her admittance into hospital was due to being alcohol related, 
but this wouldve been before any tests or review of her would  have been  done. There  is 
further information from the consultant  treating her which  says the cause of her illness 
remained inconclusive.
Overall, my decision  remains  the same. The term AXA is relying on is wide in its 
interpretation. This makes  it challenging  to apply in a case  where  the circumstances arent 
clear whether the illness is related  directly  due to alcohol  abuse.  This case  is one such as 
this. 
my final decision
I uphold this case.
AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited should  pay the claim plus 8% interest on the money owed from 
the date it shouldve been paid until the date the claim is settled. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done this, Im thinking of upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I have two concerns with AXAs approach:
Ref: DRN678566531.The policy  is unclear about what alcohol abuse is  it doesnt define  the term so its difficult  to 
test it objectively.
2.Even if a fair interpretation of alcohol  abuse can be established, its not at all clear that Mrs 
Bs alcohol  consumption was within that range
The policy is unclear
 
AXA has said that it wont cover treatment  for anything which is related or connected to alcohol 
abuse, but without defining the term.
In its final response to Mr B, AXA says that exceeding the allowance outlined  in the CMOs guidance 
(no more than 14 units per week) would be considered  abuse.  But  as Ive said above - this isnt 
outlined in the terms of the policy. 
Also, the 14 units guidance  is, as I understand it, a limit at which  no or virtually  no harm can be done 
to someone. That is very different to saying anything over 14 units  is abuse.
The NHS discusses alcohol  misuse on its website  and says this is when  you are drinking in a way 
thats harmful,  or when youre dependent on alcohol.  
From the evidence  Ive seen, I dont think a reasonable  person would think  Mrs B was abusing 
alcohol. Ill discuss this further below.
But if AXA wants to rely on the exclusion  it needs to be clear what  the term means. The problem  as 
we have seen in this case - is that its open to too much interpretation.
Mrs Bs alcohol consumption
This leads me to my second concern. There is a lot of confusion about Mrs Bs alcohol consumption 
habits. 
Looking at the information  Ive been provided about Mrs Bs condition,  no one is denying that Mrs B 
drank alcohol or that she drank on a regular basis. But just because  someone drinks alcohol regularly 
and socially doesnt  automatically mean that they abuse  alcohol. And from what Ive been given, 
there seems to be a lot of doubt around what the actual cause of     Mrs  Bs illness was. There  are 
symptoms which point  to it being alcohol related but Ive not seen anything  which conclusively says 
Mrs B was suffering  from a condition caused by an excessive and habitual  use of alcohol or a 
dependency on alcohol.  
Ive carefully reviewed the letter from Mrs Bs consultant  Dr M - to her GP from June 2018.  In the 
letter, the consultant  says the symptoms and test results suggest it may be alcohol related. Given  
what he estimates to be Mrs Bs weekly alcohol  intake  at that time he thought it was around 70 units  
per week - this could be considered excessive but the consultant doesnt say her illness was 
definitively due to her consumption; more  that in the absence of anything  else it might be. 
But there is significant  doubt  about the consultants estimate.  Evidence from the doctors treating Mrs 
B when she was abroad suggests something quite different. For example,  the consultant 
Gastroenterologist wrote on 10 May 2018 (a letter Ive placed emphasis on because  it was meant for 
whoever would take over Mrs Bs care in the UK):
She drinks  alcohol, but not excessively  1 gin & tonic and 1 glass of wine/day
Also, another  of Mrs Bs treating consultants, Dr P, wrote on the Discharge Summary:
Dr M feels alcohol may be the cause however the patients alcohol intake  differs from that 
documented in the letter from Dr MIt  remains unclear exactly what the cause is, it could be due to 
Ref: DRN67856654alcohol consumption (though does not drink alcohol to excess) or it could be due to something rarer  
that we have  yet been unable to identify like a virus.
Dr M subsequently wrote  to say that he may have been mistaken in his assessment of     Mrs  Bs 
alcohol intake. Mr B maintains that he had mis-interpreted the question  as to what was drunk as a 
household per week,  not individually. A more likely estimate  was that Mrs B was drinking around 20 
units per week.
It seems to me that Dr M made a mistake because there is limited evidence to support what he said.  
That Mrs B suffered from a condition that could  be alcohol related  doesnt mean  that in Mrs Bs case  it 
was. But more importantly,  it is not at all clear that Mrs B was abusing alcohol  and this was the 
ultimate cause of her claim.
In summary
I think  that a term as widely written as the one AXA is relying on makes it challenging to show, on 
balance, that it applies in a specific case. If consumption is so extreme  that it would be difficult not to 
relate it to alcohol abuse and a claim then AXA might be able to apply it. But there is significant  doubt  
 especially in the absence  of a policy definition - that Mrs B drank  to a level that could reasonably 
constitute abuse. So concerns on both points leave me minded to uphold  the complaint.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6785665