K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited,  trading as Likely  Loans, lent to her 
irresponsibly and that it didnt do enough to check that the loan was affordable for her.
background
Mrs P applied to Likely Loans  for a loan in October 2015 and she entered into a fixed  sum 
loan agreement with it that she electronically signed.  The loan was for £1,100 over 
24 months with monthly payments of £67.18.  Mrs P repaid the loan early in March 2016. She 
complained to Likely Loans last year that it had lent to her irresponsibly. She wasnt satisfied  
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
Likely Loans took reasonable steps  to check that Mrs P could afford  the loan repayments 
and he hadnt  seen anything that suggested  that the lending was irresponsible.
Mrs P has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says that shes  
made other complaints to this service which clearly show just how much debt she was in, 
borrowing from one to pay another, and she was on a debt management plan which 
shouldve been  taken into account  before the money was lent to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This service considers each complaint on 
its individual merits so I havent considered Mrs Ps other complaints when deciding  whats 
fair and reasonable on this complaint.
A lender should make proportionate checks about the affordability of a loan before lending  to 
a customer. What is proportionate  will depend on the circumstances of the loan. Likely 
Loans has provided evidence to show that Mrs P declared an annual income of £26,800 and 
monthly expenditure of £890  when  she applied for the loan in October 2015. And it says that 
it made a standard credit assessment - which  included  a review of Mrs Ps credit report  
which showed that a monthly  repayment of £67.18  was affordable for her.
It says that the information that it had gathered  showed that Mrs P had debts of £2,800, a 
debt to income ratio of 0.104 and was showing 6 on the consumer indebtedness index. And 
it says that there were  previous defaults  on her credit file - but as long as its lending  criteria 
were met those defaults wouldnt  prevent  it from lending to a customer. 
I consider that Likely Loans made  proportionate  checks before lending to Mrs P. And I 
consider that it was fair and reasonable  for it to conclude that a loan of £1,100  over 
24 months with monthly repayments of £67.18 was affordable for her on the basis of her 
declared annual  income  and monthly expenditure.
I dont consider that there was any requirement  for Likely Loans to have obtained any further 
information about Mrs Ps financial  situation.  And I dont consider that the information that 
was shown on her credit  file shouldve  stopped  it from lending to Mrs P. 
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Mrs P told Likely Loans that she was on a debt 
management plan or that it was aware   or ought  reasonably to have been  aware  that she 
Ref: DRN69188682was on such a plan.  Mrs P made the monthly  payments that were  due to Likely Loans and 
then repaid the loan early in March  2016. Ive seen  no evidence to show that she contacted 
Likely Loans during the term of her loan to say that she was struggling to make those 
payments or that the loan was unaffordable for her.
For these reasons I find that Likely Loans made proportionate checks before lending  to 
Mrs P and that it was fair and reasonable for it to conclude that the loan was affordable  for 
her. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Likely Loans to refund to Mrs P and of the interest that she paid to it  or to take any other  
action in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6918868