K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains HSBC  UK Bank Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
background
Mr G disputes some  transactions  made  on his account  between  15th January 2019 and 29th 
January 2019.   The  transactions totalled  £82 and Mr G says were  made  by his son without 
his consent.
At the time,  Mr G was living with his son.  He says he had given his son his card on one 
occasion to order  some take away food.  He had ensured that his son deleted the card 
details straight after.
When he discovered the transactions on his account, he left his sons home and complained 
to HSBC.
HSBC did not uphold his complaint.  It said that as Mr Gs son had carried  out the 
transactions, it was not fraud.  It also referred  this service to a complaint Mr G had made in 
2016 where his son had used his card without  his consent.  HSBC said it had educated  Mr G 
on keeping his details  safe then  so he should  have  known better on this occasion.  It said 
Mr G had been grossly negligent.
Our investigator thought HSBC had been  unfair  in its approach   he didnt think Mr G had 
been negligent and so should not be held liable for the transactions.  Mr G agreed but HSBC 
did not.  It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules  of our service mean that I have  to determine this complaint by reference to what  
I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. When  considering  
whats fair and reasonable I am required  to take into account;  relevant law and regulations;  
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the relevant  time.
Where there are gaps  in the evidence, for whatever reason, I will decide what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened  having  regard to all the circumstances.
relevant considerations
HSBC, as an FCA regulated firm, provided  a current deposit account. As such the FCAs 
overarching Principles for Businesses apply including the requirement to pay due regard to 
a customers interests  and treat them fairly  (Principle  6).
The transactions from Mr Gs account  were made in January 2019. So of particular 
relevance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are the Payment Services Regulations  2017 (PSR 2017). 
Ref: DRN66540712gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is 
not defined in PSR 2017 nor in the first Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of 
the second Payment Services Directive provides  as follows:
In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances.  The evidence and 
degree of alleged negligence should generally  be evaluated according to national  law. 
However, while the concept of negligence implies a breach  of a duty of care, gross 
negligence should mean more than mere negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a 
significant degree of carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials  used to authorise 
a payment transaction beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  
detectable by third parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret gross negligence to be a higher  standard than the standard of 
negligence under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant 
degree of carelessness. 
Both statements are of value as a relevant consideration in the absence  of 
contemporaneous interpretative guidance,  and because they inform the meaning of a 
concept that has been in place for some time (in the Banking Code).
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The Ardent) [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed  according to purely English principles of construction,   Gross 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence  as a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of 
embracing not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation of the risks involved, but 
also serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care, but as I have 
described above gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  
ordinary negligence. So I have to consider whether Mr Gs actions fell so far below the 
standard of a reasonable person  that it would be fair to say he failed with gross 
negligence to keep  his personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
I dont think giving his son the details of his card in order to use on one occasion  and 
then make sure that the details were  deleted  can be considered to be grossly negligent.  
Ive thought about whether the incident  in 2016 makes a difference to my decision but I 
dont think it does.
The disputed transactions were not transactions which  Mr G had made in the past.  Its 
accepted by all parties  that his son used his card without his authority and I am satisfied 
that he also used  it without his consent.
Ref: DRN66540713In all the circumstances, I think it is unfair  and unreasonable for HSBC to hold him liable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
HSBC Bank  UK Plc should:
-refund  the disputed  transactions  (minus  the £35 if it chooses  to do so)
-pay interest at the rate of 8% from the date of the transactions  to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6654071