K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a new credit card in 2004.  
Mr C says he didnt need PPI.
background
I can see Capital One has already  paid back Mr C some money,  for the commission it 
received from the sale. However, our adjudicator said the complaint about  the actual mis-
sale shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr C disagrees  and still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place. Hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Capital One says its records show the the PPI was sold to Mr C over the telephone. Mr C, 
perhaps understandably, cant remember  much  about the sale.
All this was obviously 14 years ago now and theres no recording left of the call. However, 
weve seen a few similar sales to this and weve looked carefully into the processes that 
Capital One used at the time to sell this type of cover over the phone.  We know, for 
example, that the telephone operators were told to follow a script when speaking to 
consumers like Mr C. And the script  weve see does  make  it clear that the consumer must be 
given an option  and that their permission is needed  before  any PPI is added.
Theres no dispute PPI was sold, so I think Mr C would have probably agreed to have this 
type of policy with his new credit  card.  On balance, I think he probably agreed to the PPI. 
This wasnt an advised  sale and so it was for Mr C to decide for himself what  he wanted  to 
do. Capital One had a responsibility to provide  clear  information to allow him to make  that 
decision.
Its possible Capital One could have explained  the policy in more detail than it did, although  
I can see the call-operator would have been prompted to tell him about the price  and other 
key features of the PPI. So I think Mr C probably had enough  information  to decide what he 
wanted to do. Even if I accept more could  have been done  by Capital One, I dont  think  this 
makes any difference  to my decision.
This is because I think Mr C was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the cover, at 79p per £100 of 
the outstanding monthly  card balance, seems  affordable for him and the PPI wouldve paid 
Ref: DRN68961572off 10% of his outstanding credit card balance each month for up to a year if hed needed to 
claim. Looking at Mr Cs job and general circumstances, I think this would have been useful.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C but I dont  think this policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt  have to pay any money 
to Mr C. My understanding  is that Capital One (Europe)  plc has already  paid back some 
money to Mr C for the commission it received from the sale.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6896157