K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (T/A Barclaycard)  unfairly  issued a default and 
recorded it on his credit file. 
background
Mr J held a Barclaycard account. He made  payments  to that account  until 17 April 2019. 
However, that payment was refunded to Mr J as a result  of a direct  debit  indemnity  claim 
initiated by him.
Barclaycard said it received no further payments from Mr J. So, on 27 December 2018, it 
issued a default notice, which asked Mr J to make  payment of £397.41  by 27 January 2019  
in order to bring his account up to date. As Mr J didnt comply with that notice Barclaycard 
said it wrote  to him on 30 January 2019 advising him that it had registered a default  marker 
with credit reference agencies (CRAs).  
Mr J says he was unaware of his account defaulting and the subsequent default marker 
because he didnt receive any correspondence  from Barclaycard  about  this. So, he said he 
wasnt given an opportunity to prevent the default being applied  and registered and he 
complained to Barclaycard about  what had happened.
When Barclaycard investigated  Mr Js complaint it didnt uphold it. It said it had last received 
a payment to his account on 17 April 2019. However, following a direct debit indemnity this 
payment was returned on 30 May 2019. Barclaycard  told Mr J that, as it didnt receive any 
further payments  from Mr J, it defaulted his account. It stated that it was satisfied it had 
written to him prior to the default taking place  and had also sent him a notice of arrears on 
23 August 2018  and 23 October 2018. Mr J said the default was impacting on his ability  to 
secure a mortgage.  He requested that it be expunged from his credit file, But, Barclaycard 
explained it wasnt able to do so due to its obligation  to report accurate information  to CRAs.  
As Mr J was unhappy with how Barclaycard had resolved his complaint he referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into this matter  and, while they empathised with Mr J, didnt 
recommend his complaint should be upheld. They  didnt think Barclaycard had made  an 
error in defaulting  Mr Js account or recording that default with CRAs. Overall, they thought it 
had acted fairly. But Mr J wasnt satisfied with this outcome  and asked for his complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I sympathise with Mr Js situation,  having considered everything  that he and 
Barclaycard have said, Ive reached the same  conclusion  as the investigator for broadly the 
same reasons. I appreciate  Mr J will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope  he can 
understand the reasons  behind my decision.
There are two parts to Mr Js complaint  and I think it will make things clearer  if I deal with 
them separately. 
Barclaycards decision  to default Mr Js account  
Ref: DRN66674502I know that Mr J feels it was unfair  of Barclaycard to default  his account. But, based on the 
evidence Ive seen , I dont think it acted unreasonably in doing  so. Ill explain why.
When an account goes  into arrears for a number of months, as Mr Js did here, a business is 
entitled to issue  a default. As Mr Js account remained in arrears  for an extended period of 
time I think it was reasonable for Barclaycard  to issue a default notice. Guidance from The 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) says it would expect a default  to be registered  by 
the time a consumer  is six months behind with their payments. Im satisfied Barclaycard 
acted in line with this guidance.
In Mr Js case, the last payment he made to his account before the default notice was issued 
was in March  2018.  I  say this because the payment  he made in April 2018 was recalled via 
the direct  debit indemnity  so it didnt  credit the balance on his account. This means that, by 
the time Barclaycard sent Mr J a default notice, it had been eight months since  his last 
payment had been received. 
Ive carefully considered  the content  of the correspondence Barclaycard said it sent Mr J 
prior to it issuing the default notice. Having  done  so, I can see Mr J was notified him that his 
account was in arrears,  what his outstanding  balance was and what  action  was needed on 
his part in order to bring his account  up to date. The statements he was sent by post each 
month provided him with the same information. So, I think it ought to have been  clear to Mr J 
that he needed to continue to make payments to his account each  month and that not doing  
so could lead to a default being issued, which could  be recorded  with CRAs. 
In the overall circumstances  of this complaint I think Barclaycard was entitled  to issue  the 
default notice  it sent him. I can see this notice clearly advised Mr J he was in arrears and in 
breach of his credit  agreement as a result. It also told him how much he had to pay to bring  
the account up to date and what would happen if he didnt take action. 
Mr J said he didnt receive any correspondence from Barclaycard prior to it defaulting  his 
account. However, the correspondence Ive seen shows that Barclaycard wrote to Mr J at his 
last known address  on a number of occasions from April 2018 until the date it defaulted his 
account. It hasnt told us these letters were returned undelivered. It may be that they were 
lost in the post. But I cant fairly  hold Barclaycard responsible for that  nor can I expect it to 
have known Mr J didnt  receive the correspondence it sent.
Ive listened to all the telephone calls Mr J made to Barclaycard regarding this default. 
However, nothing  Ive heard during these discussions  persuades  me that Mr J was told to 
await the outcome  of his complaint with our service  before paying  his outstanding balance. 
Its clear from what Ive heard that Barclaycard explained it would default Mr Js account and 
record that default with CRAs if he didnt make a payment to his account.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr J but I cant say Barclaycard acted unfairly when it defaulted his 
account. This was done after an extensive  history  of missed payments and was a decision 
Barclaycard is entitled to take if a customer isnt meeting their contractual  repayments. 
The decision  to record the default  on Mr Js credit file
I know that Mr J feels a default has been unfairly  recorded on his credit file. I appreciate the 
default will remain on his credit file, and most likely  impact him, until around  January 2025. 
Ref: DRN66674503Hes told our service  hes already experienced difficulties in applying  for a mortgage as a 
result of what happened. 
While I sympathise with all of that financial businesses should  make sure that the information 
they report to credit  reference agencies is accurate. As Mr J hasnt maintained his account  in 
line with its terms and conditions I cant say Barclaycard acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
reporting missed payment  information. So I cant ask it to remove the default marker as its a 
true reflection of what happened.
I realise Mr J will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying  
to resolve his dispute with Barclaycard informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
J any further with this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6667450