K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Zenith Insurance plc didnt investigate his car insurance claim properly.
background
Mr J was involved in a road traffic accident in December 2017. He explained that he was 
driving in his lane when  a third party (TP) merged into his lane and hit his car. He explained 
that the TP admitted liability at the scene and two independent witnesses saw the collision 
from the bus stop and supported that the TP was at fault.
Mr J initially claimed through a claims management  company but when liability was disputed, 
and his car was deemed a total loss, it passed his claim to his insurance underwriters  
Zenith. Zenith received contact from the TPs insurers to say it would settle the claim on a 
50/50 basis. It then asked Mr J for details  of the incident. Mr J explained he had provided  
these before but went on to provide the details, including the witness details.
In August  2018,  Zenith wrote  to Mr J to say it hadnt  been able to contact the witnesses so 
was intending  to settle on a 50/50  basis with the TPs insurers. It asked  Mr J to respond  
within 14 days, which he did. Mr J wrote a letter to Zenith a few days later to say he didnt 
accept it and that he had contacted one of the witnesses who said shed not heard anything. 
He gave the witnesses address and new telephone number. Zenith said it couldnt contact 
the witness so settled the claim on a 50/50  basis.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He didnt think  Zenith had done enough 
to contact the independent  witnesses, so hadnt investigated the claim fairly. He said he felt 
this may have prejudiced Mr Js claim,  so recommended Zenith record  the claim as non-
fault, pay Mr J his excess and difference in insurance premiums (with interest)  and pay him 
£100 for the trouble and upset.
Zenith disagreed.  It accepted that it hadnt contacted the witness on the new contact  details 
but that it couldnt see how it prejudiced the claim.  It argued it should  be given a chance to 
now contact the witness and can then consider its position further. The investigator didnt 
feel this was fair as too much time had now passed  to contact the witness.  Zenith asked for 
the complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
It is not my role to determine who is at fault in an insurance claim. But I have considered  
whether Zenith has acted  reasonably when  investigating and settling the claim. And having 
considered the evidence,  I dont think Zenith  investigated this claim fairly.
Zenith started investigating this claim a few months after the accident, as Mr J originally 
instructed a claims management company.  It said that the claims management company 
didnt pass on the details of the accident, so it asked  Mr J for the circumstances. Mr J 
explained that he was the established vehicle in the lane, and the TP merged and hit his car. 
He also gave details  of the independent  witnesses. 
Ref: DRN65390122Zenith said it was unsuccessful in contacting the witnesses,  so decided to settle the claim on 
a 50/50 basis  but asked  Mr J to submit any comments within 14 days. Mr J did this  and 
informed Zenith that he was able to contact one of the witnesses. He provided Zenith with up 
to date details  for the witnesses  including an address  and new phone number for one of 
them. Zenith replied to Mr J a few days later saying it was unsuccessful contacting the 
witness, however it appears it didnt  use the new telephone number. And I cant  see it 
attempted to contact  the witness by post either. 
Zenith has said it settled the claim because  of the lack of witness  evidence, but I dont think 
it made reasonable attempts at contacting the independent witnesses. When  it couldnt  get 
through on the phone,  it didnt write  to the witness that it had an address for. And it didnt use 
the correct number even though Mr J had provided  this to Zenith. I appreciate  Mr J didnt 
highlight in his letter that the number had changed, but he provided new details in this letter 
that Zenith  should  have taken into consideration. And as it didnt, the witness wasnt 
contacted. I think the witness  statement would likely have supported Mr Js version  of events 
and may have led to a different settlement outcome. So, I think he has been  prejudiced  by 
Zeniths unreasonable attempts at contacting the witness.
Zenith has argued that it should be given time to now contact the witness.  But I dont  think 
that would  be fair at this late stage. Mr Js road traffic accident was in 2017. I dont think its 
likely the witness recollection  over two years  later would be as accurate as it would have 
been if Zenith had requested it at the time it received the up to date contact details. And I 
dont think it would be fair to attempt to contact the witnesses now, given their contact details 
may have  changed  again.
So, I dont think Zenith conducted  a reasonable investigation into Mr Js claim. And I think  
this prejudiced Mr Js claim.  I also think that the actions of Zenith  has caused Mr J some 
trouble and upset.  Mr J went to the trouble of contacting his witnesses  directly  when Zenith  
should have, and he updated  Zenith with information  that it overlooked. I think this wouldve 
caused Mr J some frustration so Zenith should  pay him £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset this caused.
Putting things  right
To put things right Zenith  Insurance  plc must  do the following:
-Record the claim as bonus allowed  (Non-fault)  and update Mr Js policy  to show  he 
hasnt made a fault claim (including reinstating any applicable  No Claims Discounts)
-Refund Mr Js policy excess he paid following this claim together with 8% simple 
interest per annum from when this was paid to the date of settlement.
-Refund any additional premiums Mr H may have been charged as a result of this 
accident being recorded as at fault plus 8% simple interest from the date the 
premiums were  paid to the date of settlement.
-Pay Mr J £100 for the trouble and upset  hes experienced  through  the claims 
process.
Ref: DRN65390123my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Zenith Insurance plc must  follow  the 
instructions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6539012