K820x#14complaint
Miss M was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. She and instructed Kindertons Ltd 
(trading as Mazda Accident AfterCare) to deal with the repairs  to her car after being passed 
their details by her car manufacturer.
background
Miss M is unhappy with the repairs to her car. She has complained that, following  the repair, 
there was additional (non-accident)  damage  on the bodywork of her car, and there  was also 
cleaning product residue on the car. Kindertons arranged for the car to go back to the 
repairers. The repairers valeted  the car to remove any cleaning product residue but they said 
that the bodywork damage was normal wear and tear and didnt take responsibility for this.  
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator  under the rules  of the 
Legal Ombudsman. This means that only Kindertons service was considered,  and not what 
the repairers did or didnt do.
Our investigator found Kindertons had provided a fair and reasonable service by referring 
Miss Ms concerns back to the repairers. Although Kindertons initially told Miss M they would 
arrange for an independent  inspection of her car, following an internal  review, they decided 
this wasnt necessary. The investigator  felt this was also reasonable in the circumstances.
Kindertons agreed  with the investigator but Miss M didnt. She believes Kindertons shouldve  
instructed an independent inspection  of her car because of inconsistencies in what the 
repairer has said. She says she has had the car inspected herself and the damage  was 
caused by the use of dirty polishing equipment  and unskilled user error. Shes  also said 
theres an issue with a warning light caused by unrepaired accident  damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
bodywork damage
I have seen that Kindertons took Miss Ms concerns seriously and arranged for the repairers 
to inspect the car and to fix any damage they caused. I consider this was reasonable. But 
the repairers didnt  take responsibility  for the damage Miss M says they caused. I appreciate 
Miss M is frustrated by this, especially  as she could be held financially  liable  for this under 
the terms of her car finance package. But I cant hold Kindertons  responsible  for the actions 
of a third party  the repairers.
After an internal review  at the highest  level, Kindertons  decided not to have the car 
independently inspected.  Miss M believes this was the wrong decision and I can see why 
she thinks so. The report shes had done on her car says that the damage is consistent with 
poor quality  cleaning, and she feels this is the fault of the repairers. Its possible that, had 
Kindertons instructed an independent  inspection, this may have reached the same  
conclusion.
Ref: DRN63367652But Kindertons were  aware that the repairers didnt take responsibility for the damage. So, if 
they had had an inspection done,  and had this report  come  to the same conclusion  as 
Miss M, things wouldnt be any different. If the repairers didnt take responsibility for the 
damage, Kindertons  wouldnt be able to make them fix it. Miss M would still be in the 
situation she is now in having to consider alternative  action  shes said that shes  already 
raised this with the Motor Ombudsman. Because of this, I agree that Kindertons acted 
reasonably in not getting an independent inspection of Miss Ms car.
warning light
Miss M has said theres  an issue with a warning light caused by unrepaired accident damage 
 the sensor is located in the same place as the point of impact in the accident. Shes asked 
a garage to investigate  and confirm this. This isnt something that Miss M raised in her 
complaint to Kindertons, so isnt something I can consider as part of my decision. The rules 
of both the Legal Ombudsman and the Claims Management Ombudsman mean that 
Kindertons must have the opportunity to resolve this issue  before we can become involved.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Ms complaint. Because of this I wont 
be asking Kindertons Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6336765