K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that National  Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs P payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1989.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs P say that the NatWest mortgage adviser  gave the impression that the PPI was 
an essential part of the mortgage.  The problem I have, in making a decision  on this, is that I 
couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser  and the tone in which they were  said. It 
isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy,  even 
if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy  is actually 
something worth having. The closer  it gets to making someone feel they have no real 
sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant  be sure 
exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say NatWest did something wrong unless I 
had stronger evidence  of this. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply: 
NatWest says it didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P  in the sense  of it 
being particularly  suited to their individual  needs.  This would mean  it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It would  have been  for Mr and Mrs P to 
decide whether  it was suitable. But even if it had made a recommendation, I think it 
would probably  have been  an appropriate  one in their circumstances at the time. 
Mr and Mrs P say NatWest didnt ask about  Mr Ps work  sick. But finding yourself 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties; and the PPI would have 
paid benefits at the same time as Mr P (the person covered) received  any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other  living costs.  This all would have put Mr and Mrs P in a more 
secure position, if theyd eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the 
PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well NatWest explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy. But 
I dont think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected 
Ref: DRN69475992whether Mr and Mrs P took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits  (12 
months disability benefit and 12 months unemployment benefit) were greater than 
Mr Ps sick pay and savings; and the cost wasnt significantly  high.
Its possible NatWest didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would  have been affected by any of these. And theyd 
be paying for it monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without  further cost if their 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6947599