K820x#14complaint
Mr L, through his relative Ms S, complains that American International Group  UK Limited  
(AIG) has acted unfairly and unreasonably by mis-selling  him a personal accident  plan. He 
wants a refund of all premiums paid.
background
Mr L said that he took out a personal accident policy with his bank account  about ten years 
ago. He said that he hadnt  worked due to his health issues  and he thought  that the policy  
had been mis-sold. His complaint was about commission  and mis-selling.
AIG said that Mr L hadnt taken out the policy with his bank account, but agreed that it had 
called him in 2008 to offer him the policy as he was a customer of the bank in question.  It 
also said that the bank paid for the first two months of cover  and Mr L had been told about  
the benefits and exclusions of the policy; the call had been  recorded and was still available.  
AIG denied  that Mr L was told the policy would help him if he lost his job  the policy simply 
paid out money  if Mr L had an accident and suffered an injury  and this was explained to him 
both on the phone and in writing.
Mr L and Ms S complained to us. Ms S explained that Mr L had been sectioned and in 
secure accommodation since 2008,  and didnt think that he had understood what  the policy  
covered. The investigator listened to the call and considered the evidence; she said that 
Mr L didnt mention his mental health  issues, though it didnt affect the policy  in any event. 
The investigator confirmed that this was a personal accident policy, not a payment protection 
policy to help if a consumer became unemployed. She thought  that during the call Mr L had 
asked questions about the policy and engaged;  there was no indication  that there  might  be a 
problem affecting  his ability to understand or make a decision.  The investigator noted  that 
Mr L hadnt cancelled  the policy.
Ms S disagreed. She said that Mr L wouldnt ever have benefitted from the policy as he lived 
in secure accommodation from when the policy started onwards. Ms S also said that she 
didnt think he couldve understood the policy.
The investigator asked  AIG about the commission paid. It confirmed the rate was 25%.  She 
said that given  the law, this wasnt an excessive commission payment and the policy  wasnt 
mis-sold on the basis of the commission paid either. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr Ls insurance policy is one for which it doesnt  matter if he has a job; its designed to pay 
him money  if he has a personal accident and suffers an injury. This was what  he was told in 
the call and confirmed  in writing later when he was sent the policy details.  
Ref: DRN65016992Having listened  to the call, Mr L didnt mention his health issues, and I agree that strictly his 
health wasnt relevant  to his ability to make a claim.  But I also listened  to see if there  was 
any indication that Mr L wasnt well enough to make a decision or understand what  he was 
being told  this was to find out if there was sufficient information  to put AIG on notice that 
Mr L mightnt understood what was happening. In my view, there wasnt  any indication  of a 
problem; Mr L asked  relevant questions which showed that he was engaging. He raised a 
complex question  about  when payment would be taken and discussed this matter.  AIG 
couldnt reasonably have  known based on the information that it had that Mr L had serious  
health issues.
Mr L was told clearly  about the policy, and what it did and didnt  cover. Mr L was also told 
about how to cancel it and that he would be sent information to fully understand the policy.  
Ive seen a copy  of what he was sent and it did set out the information Mr L needed. I also 
note that he hasnt cancelled the policy, despite knowing the position. I cant say that AIG 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably, particularly if Mr L had suffered an accident, he wouldve 
been able to make a claim. It is possible to have  an accident in secure accommodation.
Turning to the issue of commission  paid, the rate of 25% is fair and reasonable. I cant  say 
that the policy was mis-sold due to this payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision before 
14 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6501699