K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about eighteen  payday  loans and a running account (flex credit) facility  
that Quick Quid provided to Miss B from June 2009  onwards.  Miss Bs last loan was 
provided in November 2013.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Bs complaint  about  loans three to ten, twelve  to eighteen and 
the flex credit facility.  So she thought that Miss B shouldnt  have been provided with these 
loans. Quick Quid didnt  agree with our adjudicator in full. So the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three, twelve, thirteen and 
fourteen would  more  likely than not have shown that:
Ref: DRN63871502the repayment required for these loans took up a significant proportion of what  was a 
relatively low monthly income.  In these circumstances, there was a significant risk 
that Miss B wouldnt have  been able to repay  this loan without undue difficulty  or 
borrowing further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss B, I think that 
there were two instances where Quick Quid  should  reasonably have seen that Miss B was 
unlikely to have  been able to make her loan repayments  in a sustainable manner. I think  that 
it should have  realised this was the case by the time it provided  loan four and by the time it 
provided loan fifteen. I say this because:
by the time of loan four, Miss B had owed Quick  Quid  money  for a period of well over 
a year.  There were  late payments  on loan one and loan three. And loan four was for 
not much  less than what Miss Bs actions  appear to suggest  that she was finding 
difficult to repay.  In my view,  Miss B owing Quick Quid  money for this period of time, 
in these circumstances, was in itself a clear demonstration of Miss Bs inability to 
settle her loans over the life of the credit agreement.   
I think that a similar  pattern had emerged  by the time of loan fifteen. By this stage,  
Miss B had owed  Quick Quid money  for eight months. Miss B continually  returning 
for loans shortly after paying previous  ones  suggests that she was borrowing further 
to cover the hole paying previous loans left in her finances.   
Miss B was given  loans for periods that cannot  reasonably be described as short-
term. And, in my view,  Miss B paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  an 
increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Miss B lost out because  Quick Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Miss Bs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss Bs complaint about  loans three to ten, twelve to eighteen and the flex 
credit facility and Quick Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans three to ten, twelve to eighteen 
and the flex credit facility;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Miss B owed Quick  Quid money means that any information still 
recorded about loans three to ten, twelve to eighteen and the flex credit facility  is 
Ref: DRN63871503adverse. So all entries about  these loans (where they remain) should be removed 
from Miss Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Bs complaint.  Casheuronet  UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6387150