K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf  of the estate of Mrs R by her daughter (who Ill refer to 
as Miss S to avoid any confusion).  Miss S is the sole representative of the estate. She 
complains that Nationwide Building  Society has provided poor service  and wont provide a 
refund under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for goods  her late mother  bought 
using her Nationwide credit card.
    
background
Mrs R ordered some furniture in October 2016  and paid for it on her Nationwide  credit card. 
She had to go into hospital shortly after and Miss S took delivery  of the furniture  about  two 
months later. Miss S found items were faulty and unfit for purpose so she contacted  the 
supplier. Sadly, Mrs R died at the start of 2017. Miss S got in touch with Nationwide to deal 
with account administration and she asked Nationwide to refund the cost of the furniture 
under section 75 as the supplier hadnt  done so. 
Nationwide said it couldnt do that, at first - because the furniture  had been  purchased  on 
Mrs Rs account and she was deceased.  Miss S challenged Nationwides response and 
shes unhappy it took several months  before Nationwide acknowledged this was incorrect 
and considered a refund. She found Nationwides service generally to be very poor. She 
says this delayed  the administration of the estate and increased the pressure she was under 
as well as adding to her distress and inconvenience.
Nationwide says there wasnt enough evidence  to show thered been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier so it couldnt  provide a refund. It offered to re-consider  if 
Miss S obtained an independent experts  report to show the furniture was faulty. Nationwide  
accepts it should  have provided  better service and it paid the estate £400 in recognition of 
that. 
Miss S contacted her local trading standards department about getting an independent  
report. She says a trading  standards officer  checked  the furniture and agreed its not fit for 
purpose. Then, after trading standards  contacted  the suppliers  head  office,  the supplier 
agreed to collect the furniture and provide a refund. She feels this shows Nationwide  should 
have handled  things differently - it should  have listened to what  she said about the furniture 
and told her sooner  if an independent report was required. 
Shes unhappy that the supplier had the purchase  money for several  months. She wants 
Nationwide to pay interest on the refund.  She doesnt think it paid enough  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  she experienced. And she says its unfair all of this was paid 
to the estate when  she had to go through the trouble and upset. 
Our investigator doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She doesnt  think  
Nationwides response to the section  75 claim was unfair. And she says the offer to pay the 
estate £400 compensation sounds  reasonable for the delays and poor service. She 
acknowledges this must have upset and inconvenienced Miss S. But shes  explained we 
cant require Nationwide  to compensate  Miss S direct - as shes not Nationwides customer. 
Miss S is unhappy with this outcome. She doesnt  think our investigator  looked into 
everything properly.  Shes disappointed  with the behaviour of Nationwide  across several 
departments and says this whole  experience  had a detrimental affect her personal  health 
Ref: DRN62328662and well-being.  She feels Nationwide should have provided more  support and it should  pay 
interest and more compensation so the matter was passed to me for review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached much  the same  conclusions 
as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I am very sorry  to hear about  the death  of Miss Ss mother  and I would like to offer my 
condolences. I can see this has been  a very difficult time. And I have no doubt trying to sort 
out the account and seek  a refund under section 75 has added to an already very stressful  
and upsetting situation. 
  
I think it might be helpful if I clarify  a few things at the outset of my decision. Mrs R was 
Nationwides customer. This means the right to complain about  anything related to the 
operation of accounts she held with Nationwide has vested in her estate.  Miss S is the sole 
executor of Mrs Rs estate and she brings this complaint in that capacity.  The complaint is 
about the way Nationwide dealt  with a section 75 claim and the service  it provided to Mrs Rs 
estate after her death. 
section 75 claim
Under certain circumstances section  75 gives a consumer  an equal right to claim against the 
supplier or the lender that provided the credit for goods and services  if theres  been  a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier. Its not my role to apply section  75, only a 
court can do that. Instead, Im looking at Nationwides  response to the estates  request for a 
refund. 
To be able to uphold  this part of the complaint I would have to be satisfied that theres  been  
a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier - and the response from 
Nationwide doesnt  represent a fair and reasonable remedy. I have considered  the evidence  
carefully. Miss S has described in some  detail the difficulties she had when she used this 
furniture. I understand  she feels very strongly that it was faulty when  it was supplied. She 
says it would have  been completely unsuitable  for her late mother  to use - and that should 
have been clear to the salesperson at the time of the sale.  
When Miss S contacted  the supplier  with these concerns it didnt accept thered been a 
misrepresentation or agree the furniture was defective  or unfit for purpose.  Instead, the 
supplier said the furniture probably hadnt  been used properly. I appreciate  Miss S feels 
Nationwide should  have accepted what she said about the problems shed had with the 
furniture - especially  as the supplier  hadnt inspected or tested  the goods. But, I dont think it 
was unfair  of Nationwide to ask Miss S to obtain some  more evidence. And its usually 
helpful to have the view of an independent specialist in this sort of case - so I dont think it 
was unreasonable to suggest that. 
Its unfortunate that Miss S wasnt able to arrange  for a suitable  expert  to inspect  the 
furniture - despite going to some trouble to do so. I can see that must have been frustrating 
Ref: DRN62328663but I cant fairly say shes likely to have  had more success appointing  an expert if Nationwide 
had asked for this evidence any sooner.  And, looking at the evidence  Nationwide  had at the 
time, I dont think theres enough to fairly find it should have reasonably concluded thered 
been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. So Im not persuaded it was wrong  of 
Nationwide to refuse to provide a refund. 
I understand the supplier has agreed  (relatively recently) to take the goods back  and refund 
the full purchase  price.  But, I havent  seen anything from the supplier to show it accepts 
there was a breach of contract  or misrepresentation.  Its possible the supplier took these 
steps as a goodwill gesture. And I dont  think it would  be fair or reasonable to require 
Nationwide to pay interest on the refund  or do anything further in these  circumstances.   
poor service and compensation
Nationwide has acknowledged  it was wrong  to tell Miss S initially  that it couldnt  deal with the 
section 75 claim. And it accepts there  was a delay of about three months in providing 
correspondence in relation to pension payments which meant estate funds couldnt be 
released. It paid the estate £400 compensation for these delays and other  administrative  and 
service issues.  Like our investigator, I think that seems reasonable in the circumstances.  
I know Miss S feels this isnt enough  in view of everything she has been through. I have no 
doubt shes had a very stressful time and I can see why she thinks Nationwide  should pay 
her some compensation  personally. But this complaint was brought on behalf of Mrs Rs 
estate. That means I can only consider what action it is fair and reasonable to ask 
Nationwide to take in respect  of the estate. I am unable to require  Nationwide  to pay more 
compensation to take account  of the trouble and upset Miss S has experienced. 
I realise this is frustrating for Miss S. Shes  mentioned  experiencing multiple issues with 
Nationwide over multiple departments.  Last October she told our investigator she would 
provide more information about that but she hasnt sent us anything else. This service can 
only consider a complaint if a financial business like Nationwide has already had the 
opportunity to look into it. If there are additional issues  - aside from those Miss S has 
included here - then it remains  open  to her to raise those with Nationwide.  And Miss S may 
be able to bring another complaint to this service if she is unhappy  with Nationwides 
response. 
I realise this decision  will disappoint  Miss S and Im sorry about  that after all shes been 
through. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded  it would be fair and 
reasonable to require  Nationwide  to pay interest  or additional compensation or do anything 
further in response  to this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S on behalf 
of the estate of Mrs R to accept or reject  my decision before 12 April 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6232866