K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold  them a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage in October 1998  and at the same  time took out an MPPI 
policy that covered  them  both against accidents,  sickness and unemployment.  They 
arranged the mortgage and insurance  in a meeting in one of Lloyds branches.  They 
arranged the policy so that Mr F would be able to claim for 85% of the benefit provided and 
Mrs F 15%.
In June 2001, Mr and Mrs F applied for a further advance  and at the same time amended 
their MPPI policy to increase the benefit  provided,  matching the monthly  repayment amount.  
They also changed  the benefit split between them with Mr F being able to claim  70% of the 
total amount and Mrs F 30%.
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage and MPPI  policy ended  in April 2002.
Mr and Mrs F believe Lloyds mis-sold the policy. They say through  their representative, the 
policy was not suitable for them due to their circumstances at the time of sale and Lloyds 
gave incorrect advice.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs F dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  for the following reasons:
I first of all looked into whether Mr and Mrs F were given a choice to have the policy. I 
have done this by considering both parties  recollections  and any documentation 
provided from the sale. 
Mr and Mrs Fs recollections about the meeting in October 1998 are not detailed. This is 
understandable due to the many  years that have passed  since the date of sale.  So I 
have needed to look at the sales documentation provided from that time to obtain an 
understanding as to what more likely  happened.
I think, after considering the documentation  provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies  at that time, it is more likely that Mr and Mrs F were advised  it was a good  
idea to have the insurance  to protect  their mortgage repayments, and they took it on that 
advice.
Ref: DRN62022142I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I can see that, when the separate application  
form was being  completed and signed  by Mr and Mrs F, that the MPPI policy  was 
presented on this form as an optional requirement.  On balance,  when considering  the 
information in front of me, I am persuaded Mr and Mrs F were given a choice to have 
the MPPI policy.
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs F, but it doesnt look as if 
it was unsuitable  for them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
They both say they had at least 3 months sick pay and had savings but I think  the benefits 
provided by the policy would  have  been  of use to them in a time of need. Having the 
policy in place  would mean Mr and Mrs F could  use any provisions to cover  other 
expenses. I think, on balance,  Mr and Mrs F would have found the cover the policy 
provided useful  for any extended period of unemployment or sickness.  I can also see no 
other reasons such as a significant or restrictive term that would  make  the policy  
unsuitable either.
I cannot be sure if Mr and Mrs F would have  received the costs of the policy clearly in 
the meeting but even if they had received all the information  on this, I dont think it would  
have changed  their mind  to have the cover  for the reasons that I have already given. 
The MPPI  policy was reasonably priced  compared  to similar  policies available  at the 
time and to the monthly repayment.  And Mr and Mrs F could have cancelled the MPPI if 
it did become unaffordable.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs F wouldve been affected by any of these based on what  I have already 
concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs F, but on balance,  I do not uphold 
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 
16 June 2019 .
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6202214