K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him three  payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies with three  loans. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the first policy in 2003 and the two others in 2004  all at the same time as 
taking out a loan. He applied for all three loans and PPI policies in-branch.
All three policies were  single premium policies where the upfront premium was paid in 
advance by being added to the loan where it attracted interest over the term of the loan.
All three loan were  repayable over a 36-month  term and each  policy term matched that of 
the loan. The monthly PPI cost was as follows:
Loan 1 = £14.50
Loan 2 = £16.57
Loan 3 = £18.37  
The policies provided cover for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to their 
exclusions and limitations. All offered to repay Mr Cs respective monthly  loan repayment  for 
up to 12 months in the event of unemployment and the remaining term in the event of a 
successful disability claim.
Mr Cs circumstances were broadly the same for each sale: Mr C was employed as a dental 
technician and he told us he was not entitled  to any enhanced sick pay but had between six- 
and twelve-months worth of income  in savings he could use to make the repayments on his 
loan should he be unable to work. Mr C has said he was in good health  at the time of the 
sales.
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that loan 1 was repaid by loan 2 in 2004, loan 2 
was repaid by loan 3 also in 2004  and loan 3 ended in 2007.
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Cs representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Cs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
Ref: DRN64598952The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Nationwide 
should have told Mr C about  the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr C and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint
All three sales took place before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreements themselves concluded in 2004 and 2007 respectively. That means  
the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer  Credit  Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the times, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN64598953Each sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Im satisfied I should take the ABI code  and these other publications into account  when 
deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs case.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether each time the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given 
his needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out each policy,  
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of each policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN64598954-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that on each occasion the PPI policy  was optional. 
Nationwide has been able to provide copies of two of the loan agreements  from the time  
for loans  1 and 3. It says, and I accept its more  likely than not, that the agreement  for loan 2 
was in the same format  as the others. Looking at these  I can see the cost of the PPI was set 
out in a separate column from the main  loan, which was titled: Optional  Credit Insurance.  
And Mr C has signed the agreements. If the description of PPI here didnt accord  with his 
understanding of what  he was told during the meeting with the representative, then I 
wouldve expected  him to have queried  things before giving his signature to agree to things.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr C knew each time that the 
policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  either  sale. Mr C hasnt  said either way. 
Looking at what happened when Nationwide sold Mr C PPI on the three  separate  occasions, 
Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I say this because Ive seen nothing which shows 
or suggests that on either occasion  Nationwide considered Mr Cs individual circumstances 
and recommended the cover to him.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr C. Instead,  it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr C to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy each  time, including  drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that for each  sale Mr C was given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect his payments if Mr 
C was unable to work  through accident, sickness and unemployment.)
I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr C would have taken out each 
policy without any sense  of what it was. And I think Mr C knew  the following (as this 
information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreements Mr C signed.):  
Loan 1 - the single  premium being  added to the loan was £472.97, the interest added 
to the premium was £49.03, the total cost was £522.00 and the monthly cost was 
£14.50. 
Loan 2 - the single  premium being  added to the loan was £540.72, the interest added 
to the premium was £55.93, the total cost was £596.65 and the monthly cost was 
£16.57.
Ref: DRN64598955Loan 3 - the single  premium being  added to the loan was £599.10, the interest added 
to the premium was £62.22, the total cost was £661.32 and the monthly cost was 
£18.37.
But the evidence  from the time of the sales doesnt  tell us whether Nationwide  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit or about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr C agreed to take out each  policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out each policy,  including  drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Cs. Ive considered these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr C? To what extent  did Mr C 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold the policies to Mr C. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr C 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Nationwide done  things properly.  
Mr C says he would not have taken them out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN64598956As each  sale was a non-advised  sale, Mr C had to weigh  up in his own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure  against  
the risk of being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr C chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr C thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr C was given about the cost of each policy  was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of each policy, such  as the limitations  and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr C would get back  in return  in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Cs expectations about what  
each policy  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan 
payments) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought each time were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr C knew  about or 
ought to have known about  on the start date of the policy,  or any condition  he sought 
advice or treatment for during the 12 months before the start date and which  recurred 
within 12 months of the start date; and 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr C pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the 
policies werent  as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in the sales,  might have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the 
policies. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale of each sale shows  that on 
all three occasions  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For all three 
he was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the insured risks have become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mr C didnt  have any pre-existing medical  conditions  and was in 
permanent employment.  So, I still think he had some good  reasons to take the policies out.
None of the policies excluded back or mental  health conditions or placed any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr C 
would have expected to make a disability claim on each policy  without first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr C needed  to be unable to do any work as certified  by a doctor. 
I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected  to make a claim.  
Ref: DRN64598957All three policies did provide a pro-rata  refund if they were  cancelled early, so each policy  
provided flexibility if Mr C decided to repay  the loan early and cancel the policy,  which  I can 
see Mr C did do.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C would still have taken out the policy with each loan sale. The policies were 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr C was made redundant, or he was unable 
to work through accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
that Mr C would have  taken out the policy with each loan in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as result  of each sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI on all three occasions had he been given clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy he was buying.
Ref: DRN64598958So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr C compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6459895