K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the way U K Insurance Limited has handled  a claim made  under  his 
legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy  - and various  law firms  that were  appointed  to pursue 
legal action on his behalf.
All and any references  to UKI in this decision include their claims handlers. 
background
Mr H had a dispute  with his neighbour about damage to Mr Hs property caused  by work his 
neighbour was doing  to his own property. Mr H previously made a claim under his LEI policy 
to cover the costs of that dispute. 
After that person sold his home,  the new owners  continued  to carry out building  works and 
Mr H says this continued  to cause damage  to his property. Mr H made a further claim on his 
LEI policy at that time and UKI agreed  to appoint Mr Hs chosen law firm to represent  him in 
that dispute. Both sides reached a settlement agreement to the effect that the new owners 
would co-operate with the surveyor regarding a party wall agreement  and wouldnt cause 
further damage to Mr Hs property.  
In mid-2017 Mr H contacted UKI and said that his neighbour had breached the terms of the 
settlement agreement and was causing further damage to his property. He wanted to apply  
for an injunction to stop further damage occurring, and to enable  a surveyor  to properly 
assess the damage that had been  caused.  
UKI initially said as the previous case had been closed he would  need  to pay for a legal 
opinion to determine whether the prospects of him succeeding in a further claim were at 
51%. Mr H didnt think that was fair. He said the issue he was having with his neighbour was 
a continuation of his previous claim. By this stage he wasnt  being represented by the law 
firm that originally acted on his behalf  and helped negotiate the settlement agreement. But 
hed already instructed another law firm to act on his behalf (the second  firm). 
After investigating  the matter,  UKI agreed  that this was a continuation  of the claim it had 
covered previously. Terms of appointment were  sent to the second  firm on 9 August 2017.
The second  firm didnt  agree to UKIs terms and, on 21 September  2017,  UKI sent terms of 
appointment to another legal firm (the third firm), at the request  of Mr H. The third firm didnt 
sign the terms either. 
So in early October 2017 UKI appointed a legal firm on its approved panel of approved 
representatives to act for Mr H (the fourth  firm). Approximately two weeks later Mr H said he 
was unhappy  with the service he was getting from the fourth firm and didnt want it to 
continue acting for him.
Mr H requested another law firm to represent him and UKI sent terms of appointment to that 
firm on 2 November 2017 (the fifth firm), which it signed and returned.  Ultimately, in 
mid-January 2018,  the relationship between Mr H and the fifth firm broke down.
UKI appointed a sixth law firm to act for Mr H soon after that (the sixth firm).  But UKI said it 
wouldnt cover  the costs of the sixth firm reading into the file. UKI said this represented a 
duplication of work  already carried out by other  law firms. Mr H says thats  unfair. 
Ref: DRN62485562Mr H is also unhappy with the conduct  of several  law firms  who were appointed by UKI to 
represent him. He also says UKI:
-unreasonably delayed appointing law firms to act on his behalf, resulting in 
unnecessary delays to an injunction  application  being made; 
-wont cover the barrister and expert costs he incurred in early 2018; 
-unreasonably restricted  the amount of costs  it was willing  to authorise;
-didnt instruct a surveyor  after the fourth  firm had been appointed; and
-declined to offer an annual  renewal  of his home insurance policy  - which includes his 
LEI policy - when  it was  due to expire in August 2017.
UKI accepts  it unnecessarily delayed sending terms of appointment to the second firm. It 
offered to pay around £3,000 towards  the costs Mr H initially  incurred when instructing that 
law firm together with a separate payment of £250 for distress  and inconvenience.  
Its also offered to pay Mr H £50 compensation for failing to respond  to correspondence sent 
by the fifth firms letter  dated November 2017, as quickly as it should  have.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think  UKI had to do anything  more. 
Mr H doesnt agree. So his complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh 
and to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. Having done so, I dont  uphold  it. I 
know Mr H will be very disappointed by this. Before I explain why I just want  to assure Mr H 
that although I havent addressed each point hes made, Ive taken on board all of his 
comments. 
Under the policy UKI is entitled to appoint  a law firm to assess the merits of Mr H succeeding 
in his claim. And then represent him in that action, if Mr H had more  chance of winning  that 
case than not - subject  to the remaining policy terms.
I know Mr H is unhappy about the way his case was conducted by certain  law firms.  But this 
service cant consider complaints about  the general  legal advice or service  given  by a firm of 
solicitors because theyre not under  UKIs control. They are independent professionals  with 
their own regulator  and complaints procedures. This service can only consider whether UKI 
has done anything  wrong. 
Ive gone on to consider whether anything UKI did unreasonably delayed Mr Hs case.
Mr H says UKI unreasonably delayed  appointing  the second firm to act on his behalf. Thats 
because it had initially asked him to fund a legal opinion on the prospects of him succeeding 
in his claim rather than treating it as a continuation of his previous claim. By the time it 
agreed that it shouldnt  have  taken that approach and to appoint the second firm to provide 
an initial assessment  of prospects, hed already incurred over £2,000  of legal costs. 
UKI accepts  that it shouldve agreed  to appoint  the second firm to provide an assessment 
earlier than it did. It also accepts that once it had agreed to appoint  that firm, it sent the 
Ref: DRN62485563terms to the wrong  address. But I can see that the terms were resent within  a couple of 
days.
UKI has agreed to cover the costs  Mr H incurred  up until the date it resent terms of 
appointment to the second  firm. UKI also offered Mr H £250  compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I think thats fair and reasonable. Given the costs Mr H incurred before the 
terms of appointment  were sent to the second firm, it looks like the case had been 
progressing. So UKIs decision not to initially cover  the claim didnt prejudice Mr Hs case or 
cause unnecessary delays. 
I dont agree that UKI failed  to promptly appoint the third firm to act for Mr H after the second 
firm didnt agree to its terms of appointment. It promptly  sent terms of appointment to the 
third firm once  Mr H informed UKI that he wanted the third firm to act on his behalf.  The third 
firm didnt respond to the terms of appointment. But UKI isnt responsible for that.
I can also see that UKI promptly appointed the fourth representative  to act for Mr H after he 
hadnt heard  anything  back  from the third law firm. 
Mr H is unhappy that UKI didnt provide  funding  for the fourth  firm to instruct  a surveyor. But 
Im satisfied that UKI isnt responsible for the surveyor not being instructed during the period 
when the fourth firm was appointed to represent him. It relied on the advice of the fourth firm 
whod said it needed  further information from Mr H to enable  it to assess  prospects  and then 
consider the next steps. I wouldnt  expect  UKI to agree to pay for a surveyors  report  if the 
fourth firm hadnt said it was needed  at that stage,  and hadnt yet carried out an assessment  
on prospects.
When making this finding I accept  that the second  firm had advised that a surveyors report 
was needed. And I can see that UKI had previously agreed to increase the costs reserve so 
that the second firm could  instruct  a surveyor. But UKI hasnt acted unreasonably by relying  
on the advice  provided by the fourth firm  even though it mightve  differed from the advice 
of the second  firm. Besides the second firm hadnt been formally appointed  by UKI to act for 
Mr H as it didnt accept  its terms of appointment.
Before the fourth firm was in a position  to assess prospects and advise whether a surveyors 
report was needed,  the fourth firm stopped  acting  for Mr H because the relationship had 
broken down. Im satisfied  UKI then reasonably  promptly sent terms of appointment to the 
fifth law firm to act for Mr H. 
UKI accepts  it couldve responded more quickly to the letter received from the fifth firm sent 
towards the end of November 2017. That letter asked UKI to confirm  the level of indemnity 
available  taking  into account the costs that had been incurred by other  law firms.  It also 
requested funding be increased to cover its costs and the costs  to instruct  a barrister to visit 
Mr Hs property. UKI says it replied to the letter within ten working days  in line with its 
service standards.  But as the claims handler  was out of the office unexpectedly, UKI accepts 
that someone else shouldve responded to the letter in their absence  given that Mr H had 
called to chase  a reply  and the letter did warrant a more urgent response.  
UKI offered £50 as compensation for stress  and inconvenience. And I think thats 
reasonable, considering the time Mr H spent chasing UKI for a reply. But I dont think the 
time it took UKI to respond  to the letter ultimately delayed the progress of Mr Hs claim. 
Thats because the barristers meeting took place after funding  was confirmed. Once it 
actioned the fifth firms  letter,  I can also see UKI actively tried to obtain the information 
Ref: DRN62485564needed to confirm the remaining indemnity by contacting,  and then chasing, the fourth firm 
to confirm the costs  it had incurred.
A few days  before  the fifth firm confirmed  that it was no longer acting for Mr H, hed 
contacted UKI asking  for an increase in the costs reserve. UKI declined to provide  such  an 
increase as the request  hadnt come from the fifth firm. I wouldnt expect  UKI to agree this 
directly with Mr H - particularly as it hadnt  received  this request from the fifth firm. So, I dont 
think UKI hasnt acted unreasonably.
Mr H also says that UKI failed to provide  a sufficient costs reserve  for the fifth firm to allow it 
to do the work needed on his case. Ive listened to a call between Mr H and his 
representative at the fifth firm during which the representative tells Mr H that UKI hasnt 
given him funding for all the work  that Mr H says he would like done. 
But during  a call between the fifth firms  representative and UKI in mid-December  2018 
(which Ive listened to) UKI agreed  its funding request to cover  its and the barristers  fees to 
attend his property for a site visit. UKIs representative asked the representative what  he 
should increase  the reserve to and was told £2,000 plus VAT would be fine. It was agreed 
once the site visit had taken place,  the costs reserve  might  need to be further  increased  
subject to the advice received from Counsel. It doesnt look like the fifth firm made a further 
request to increase the costs reserve before it stopped acting for Mr H. So I dont think  UKI 
has done anything  wrong by increasing  the costs reserve to the amount requested by the 
fifth firm.
Further, its not unusual  for LEI providers to authorise incremental costs increases to cover 
each of the next steps to be taken  on a case, rather than agreeing an inflated  figure  at the 
start. So UKI hasnt  acted  unreasonably by waiting for the outcome of the site visit before 
agreeing to cover any further costs past that point, particularly in light of the advice it was 
getting from the fifth representative around  this time.  
Under the terms of the LEI policy Mr H should:
fully co-operate with the solicitor and(UKI), and not take any action that has not 
been agreed by your solicitor or us you must  get our written permission before 
instructing a barrister  or an expert witness
Mr H instructed a surveyor and a barrister  to carry out further work on his behalf without the 
agreement of the fifth firm  or, importantly, UKI. Mr H says his case wasnt  progressed  
quickly enough and he wanted to apply  for an urgent injunction considering the damage he 
says was being done to his property. But I dont think UKI has acted  unreasonably  by saying 
it wont cover the additional  costs  Mr H incurred. The fifth firm hadnt advised UKI that this 
was needed and UKIs permission hadnt  been  obtained in advance of such  an action in any 
event.
Nor do I think that UKIs  decision to decline cover for the initial  costs  incurred by the sixth 
firm was unreasonable. Thats because the policy says:
if an appointed representative  refuses to continue  acting  for you with good reason, 
or if you dismiss them without good  reason, cover for your claim will end immediately 
unless we (UKI) agree  to appoint another appointed representative 
Ref: DRN62485565Ive listened to two of the calls that Mr H had with his representative  at the fifth firm which led 
to that firm not acting  for him anymore. I can see why it considered his behaviour to be 
unreasonable  and Im satisfied that the fifth firm had good reason to cease acting for him. 
So, at that stage, its possible UKI couldve  taken  the decision to withdraw cover under the 
policy  particularly as the relationship between Mr H and the fourth firm had broken down 
for similar reasons. 
But instead  it agreed to appoint the sixth firm at Mr Hs request. Having  done  that, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think UKI has then acted unreasonably by saying it 
wouldnt cover  the initial  costs of reviewing  the file to get up to speed  with what had 
happened. That work had already  been  done by at least two previous law firms  and given 
the reasons why those law firms  ceased to act, its not unreasonable  for UKI to view those 
costs as being an unreasonable duplication of work  and decide  not to cover them under the 
policy. 
I can also see that once  the sixth firm confirmed it had brought  itself up to speed  on Mr Hs 
claim, full terms of appointment were  sent out within seven working days and a costs reserve  
was agreed. Thats not unreasonable. 
UKI failed  to invite Mr L to renew his home insurance policy  which his LEI formed part of  
when it was due to renew in August 2017. UKI has provided me with the factors  it takes  into 
account when  deciding whether to invite renewal  which  includes the number of years  Mr H 
had the policy for and the number of claims Mr H made on his policy. It looks like UKI 
applied that criteria fairly  and it isnt the role of this service to tell UKI what  its criteria 
should be when  deciding whether to invite a renewal of a policy.
I acknowledge Mr Hs comments about  the way in which  LEI policies are designed and 
operate. But we are not the regulator  so I cant comment on what he says.  Im required to 
look at his complaint  to see whether  UKI has done  anything  wrong  when handling his claim - 
and whether its applied the terms of Mr Hs LEI policy fairly and reasonably. For the reasons 
set out above,  Im satisfied that UKI doesnt need  to do anything  more.
my final decision
U K Insurance Limited doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6248556