K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Nationwide Building  Society unfairly and unreasonably charged him a 
product fee for his mortgage in 2011.  He wants matters  put right.
background
Mr L took out a new mortgage product in 2011  with Nationwide; he paid a product fee. Mr L 
said that the product wasnt cost effective and he paid the fee in error; he wanted the money  
back. He felt that Nationwide  shouldve given him illustrations of products with and without 
fees to he could see which was more cost effective, even though Nationwide didnt give Mr L 
advice about the product and its suitability to meet his needs. Mr L noted  that since 2011 
hed taken out new products and hadnt  had to pay a product fee.
Mr L complained to Nationwide. It said Mr L wasnt given formal  advice and chose the 
product himself. The mortgage documents given to him at the time made it clear that 
Nationwide wasnt giving  him advice and Mr L had decided the product was suitable.
Mr L complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Nationwide wasnt at fault. It hadnt 
advised Mr L about the product and his mortgage needs in 2011;  what Mr L was complaining  
about was its failure to give him formal mortgage advice but this wasnt  what  he requested  
according to the evidence. The adjudicator explained that whether  or not a product was cost 
effective was dependent on the circumstances of the consumer and the potential cost 
savings over time to access  a lower interest  rate  Mr L chose  not to get formal  advice and 
chose the product himself. The adjudicator couldnt  see how Nationwide  had breached  the 
law as Mr L claimed.
Mr L disagreed. He said that this service acted for the lenders, not consumers.  The 
adjudicator explained that we didnt act for either party. Mr L felt that lenders did have to give 
formal mortgage  advice and he didnt agree not to be advised; he denied  that he was aware 
of the contents  of the mortgage  documents. The adjudicator didnt change  his view and 
pointed out that all lenders had to do was establish  whether the consumer wanted  advice or 
to make their own choice; he thought that it was more likely than not this had happened in 
Mr Ls case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders can give formal  mortgage advice to consumers about mortgage  products and 
advice on whether a particular  product meets the needs of the consumer. Lenders  are 
required to establish  if the consumer is making their own choice or seeking formal  advice,  
and this position must be recorded in the mortgage documents.  Theres  no requirement  that 
lenders must give formal  advice to all consumers.
Ref: DRN68428732In Mr Ls case, the evidence  available to me shows  that he contacted Nationwide and 
wanted to apply for the product he took out. He didnt seek formal  mortgage advice 
according to the contact  notes and the product  was chosen by him; Nationwide  didnt advise 
Mr L about the product. The documents given to Mr L before he took out the mortgage made 
it clear that Mr L hadnt been advised about the product and he had taken it out without 
advice. Its fair and reasonable for lenders to expect consumers to read such  important 
documents and contact  them if the contents  are incorrect. 
I place weight on the documents prepared at the time and sent to Mr L for his approval and I 
think its more likely  than not that they reflect the correct position. I cant find that Nationwide 
has been unfair or unreasonable in not giving  advice as that wasnt  something that it agreed 
to do for Mr L and made it clear in writing  more than once that it wasnt  giving advice.
Mr L says that the product wasnt cost-effective and the fee should be refunded.  But the 
details of the product and the fee were set out in writing  to Mr L in advance  in at least two 
different documents and he chose the product himself. Theres been  no breach of the law as 
far as I can see, though such issues are best left to the courts.  The fact that some products  
dont have product  fees doesnt mean that products with such  fees arent suitable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision before 
24 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6842873