K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Ms P complain  that Countrywide  Principal  Services  Limited  (CPSL) mis-sold  
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) in 2007.
background
Briefly:
In 2007 Mr D and Ms P took out PPI around the same time as taking out a mortgage. Both 
things were done during a meeting. 
The policy provided  protection for Mr D and Ms Ps mortgage payments in the event they 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy  benefit was split in 
line with their incomes and it would  pay out for up to 12 months  per claim. It cost around £24 
a month.
At the time of the sale Mr D and Ms P were both employed. Mr D says he was entitled to at 
least three months full sick pay  he later said he thinks  it was nearer six months. And Ms P 
said she was entitled to sick pay of at least three months. They indicated they had no other 
means they couldve used to make their repayments, but they said their parents couldve 
helped them out. They both said they were  in good  health at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr D and Ms P chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing  to indicate it was 
wrong or inappropriate  for them.
Because Mr D and Ms P disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr D and Ms Ps complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mr D and Ms P were  hoping for, Ive 
decided not to uphold their complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr D and Ms P have a choice about PPI? 
I can see that Mr D and Ms P have said they were  told they needed PPI to get their 
mortgage. 
To uphold  Mr D and Ms Ps complaint, I need  to see some  evidence to support what  they 
say happened. So, Ive looked carefully at the paperwork provided from the time of the sale. 
But having  done so, Ive not seen enough to uphold Mr D and Ms Ps complaint  on this 
basis.
 
Firstly, the PPI quotation they were given says the insurer would require completion of an 
application form  a separate and distinct application from the mortgage itself.  I think Mr D 
and Ms P wouldve also needed to complete a separate direct  debit mandate to authorise 
the insurer to take the required premiums from their bank account. 
Ref: DRN69702802Because of this, Im not persuaded  that Mr D and Ms P wouldve been under the impression 
that they had to take out PPI to get the mortgage.
In addition, weve managed to obtain  a copy of Mr D and Ms Ps mortgage  application  from 
the lender. Looking at this, I can see there was a separate insurance section which referred 
to PPI. But theres nothing  here which said, or in my view, implied that PPI was a condition  
of the mortgage.  It said that the insurer will offer a quote direct  although presumably in Mr 
D and Ms Ps case CPSL did this on their behalf.
Im mindful too that before Mr D and Ms Ps mortgage started, they received  a letter  from the 
insurer confirming the details of the policy including the cost and benefit information.  It also 
said here that if after examining  the policy they decided not to proceed, they could cancel it 
without charge. Because this came  from the insurer before  Mr D and Ms Ps mortgage 
started, if theyd been told by CPSL they had to have PPI to get the mortgage, then upon 
reading this information which conflicted  with their understanding, I mightve expected  them 
to have queried it at the time.
So, while Ive listened carefully to what Mr D and Ms P say, Ive not seen enough to support 
their complaint that they were  told they had to have PPI. Because of this I dont think  I can 
fairly say that CPSL more  likely than not misrepresented the policy as not being optional.
the advice
Based on what Ive seen  I think, more likely than not CPSL recommended the PPI to Mr D 
and Ms P. This means Business had to check that the PPI was right for them  and based 
on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example, they 
were both eligible  for the cover; they werent affected by any of the significant  exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover  such as those  relating  to existing medical conditions or unusual  
employment circumstances; and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.
Mr D and Ms P had some sick pay they couldve used to make  their repayments if they 
found themselves  off work ill. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to this and for 
longer if necessary  up to 12 months  per claim. So, if either  of them  found  themselves 
unable to work for an extended period of time, I think  they mightve come under some  
financial pressure at what would likely  be a difficult and perhaps uncertain  time. I therefore 
think they wouldve  found the policy useful  and it couldve ultimately  helped  them  protect 
their home.
Mr D and Ms P say they couldve sought help from their parents. But however well-
intentioned that help mightve been, I dont think it could reasonably be considered as 
guaranteed  I wouldnt have expected  the adviser  to have considered it as such. So, I think 
Mr D and Ms P did have a need  for cover,  and I dont think  it was wrong for CPSL  to have 
recommended it to them.
the information   
I said above that I think Mr D and Ms P understood the cost and benefit  of the cover before 
the policy started.  But because Ive not likely  seen all the paperwork from the time of the 
sale, I accept its possible the information  CPSL gave them  about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But as I found above, I think they likely  chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. And as I said above it seems like it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  
Ref: DRN69702803So, I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mr D and Ms P off taking 
out the cover.
 
conclusion
Overall  while CPSL might not have  done everything it should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done when it sold Mr D and Ms P PPI, in light of their circumstances at the time I think the 
policy was suitable  for them. And I think they wouldve still gone ahead  and taken out PPI 
had CPSL done  anything more.
This means  I dont  think Mr D and Ms P have  lost out as a result  of having PPI, so 
CPSL doesnt have  to pay back to Mr D and Ms P what  they paid for PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6970280