K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  didnt do enough 
to stop funds leaving their account  when they were scammed.
background
On 31 January 2018 Mrs B authorised a transfer  online of £3,570 to who she thought was a 
tradesman working on her house. Unfortunately, the tradesman  had his e-mail account 
hacked and the scammer  sent a fake invoice to Mr and Mrs B requesting payment. Mr and 
Mrs B contacted Halifax on 3 February  2018 after speaking to the actual tradesman and 
realising theyd been victims of a scam.  
Halifax contacted  the beneficiary bank on 3 February to try and recover  Mr and Mrs Bs 
funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded  to advise no funds remained. Halifax 
explained to Mr and Mrs B that as they authorised the payments and Halifax  correctly  
followed their instructions, it hadnt  made  an error in sending the £3,570  and wouldnt be 
refunding this. But it did recognise  it couldve  responded to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint sooner 
and paid them £75 compensation in recognition of this. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and felt Halifax  was correct to follow  Mr and Mrs Bs 
instruction to send  the £3,570 payment.  And he felt that Halifax  had done  enough to try and 
recover the funds  from the beneficiary bank. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
assessment as they felt the transfer was out of character for them  so should  have been 
stopped. They also felt Halifax should have crossed  checked the name on the beneficiary  
account. As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the case  has been passed to me for 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Halifax are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN68747912And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.  
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr and Mrs B when  they made the payment of £3,570,  or whether it should have done more  
than it did. In this case, I do think that Halifax acted reasonably in following Mr and Mrs Bs 
instruction to make the payment. And I think  it did enough to try and recover funds from the 
beneficiary bank. So, I dont think it needs  to reimburse Mr and Mrs B with the £3,570  they 
have lost. Ill explain why in more detail.
Mr and Mrs B have  accepted that they authorised the transfer  for £3,570  themselves. It 
should be noted that this is understandable considering how convincing  the scam was that 
they were victims to. Because  they authorised the transaction, Halifax  was obliged  to follow  
Mr and Mrs Bs instruction. But there are some situations in which  it should  reasonably  have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer.
Ive thought about this carefully.  Looking  at the statements for the account, I dont think  the 
type of payment or the amount was particularly unusual or suspicious in comparison  to      
Mr and Mrs Bs normal account activity. From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs B made bill and 
card payments for similar  or higher amounts, so I dont think theres anything  remarkable  
about the payment in terms of its value  or payment type. I understand Mr and Mrs B feel it 
should have been flagged  as the beneficiary bank wasnt a large retail bank. But any bank, 
large or small, can be utilised by scammers.  So, I dont think the use of this particular 
beneficiary bank  should  have flagged  to Halifax that the transfer was part of a scam.  And I 
dont think Halifax made an error  in following  Mr and Mrs Bs instruction to make the transfer.
Ref: DRN68747913Mr and Mrs B have  also said Halifax  should have realised the name  they entered  on the 
transfer details  didnt match the name on the account itself. I can understand their strength 
of feeling about this, but at the time that they made  the transfer banks werent required to 
check the names on an account. In the type of transfer Mr and Mrs B made, Halifax only had 
to use the account  number  and sort code  to make sure the funds were  going to the correct 
account. 
Mr and Mrs B contacted Halifax on 3 February 2018,  when they became aware theyd 
unfortunately been the victims of a scam. Halifax raised a scam complaint  and contacted the 
beneficiary bank  on the same day to request a return  of the funds.  So, I think it did all it could 
to try and recover Mr and Mrs Bs funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank explained that 
all the funds were removed on 31 January 2018.  
After carefully considering  everything available to me, I think  Halifaxs  decision not to refund 
Mr and Mrs B with the £3,570 in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Though I do empathise with Mr and Mrs Bs situation; especially as this is a particularly 
convincing type of scam. But I havent  seen any reason why Halifax  should not have 
followed Mr and Mrs Bs instruction to make  the transfer. And I think  it did enough to try and 
recover the funds  in a timely manner once it was notified of the scam.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6874791