K820x#14Complaint
Mr V complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) didnt tell 
him his direct debit  had been cancelled. As a result, Mr V didnt receive interest on his 
current account. 
Background
Mr V received a call from Amex in December 2018  as the direct  debit used to pay his bill had 
been cancelled.  Mr V contacted his bank and was told the direct debit had been cancelled  
under the dormancy rules as it hadnt  been collected for over 13 months.
Mr V complained to Amex  and said that as a result of his direct debit being  cancelled hed 
missed out on £75 of interest that would  have been  paid to his current account.  Mr Vs 
current account pays interest if there are active direct debits in place. In his complaint, Mr V 
said Bacs  advised  him it was the responsibility of the business collecting the payment to tell 
its customer when a direct debit instruction is approaching the dormancy period of 13 
months. 
Amex didnt uphold  Mr Vs complaint and he referred it to our service.  An investigator looked  
at Mr Vs concerns but didnt uphold his complaint.  She didnt agree that Amex  was obliged 
to tell Mr V his direct debit  was about to become dormant. Mr V asked to appeal  so his 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.  
My findings
Id like to begin  by thanking all parties for their patience whilst Ive been looking  into this 
case. I wanted to ensure my decision  is rooted in the rules  governing  how direct debits are 
collected and what information businesses are obliged to give customers. Ive considered all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, Mr V has said hes been advised  by Bacs (the body that sets out how direct 
debits are collected and processed)  that its the responsibility of the collecting  business to 
notify a customer if their direct debit  instruction is approaching the dormancy period of 13 
months. Ive looked at the direct debit  scheme  rules  Bacs publishes  and, in particular, the 
section that deals with dormancy. 
Bacs rules  say a direct  debit can become dormant after a period of 13 months if no 
payments are made.  But the rules  dont say that the collecting  business  has to contact its 
customer to warn them their direct debit is approaching  the dormancy period of 13 months. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr V but I havent found that Bacs rules  oblige Amex to notify 
customers before a direct debit is made  dormant. 
I understand Mr V lost out on £75 interest because his account didnt satisfy his banks 
requirement for active direct debits. But as I havent  found Amex was required to notify  him 
before the direct  debit was made dormant it follows I dont have grounds  to tell it to 
compensate Mr V for the interest he lost out on. 
Mr V didnt incur any late payment fees or pay interest as a result of the delay in making  his 
Amex payment. 
Ref: DRN62422342I am sorry  to disappoint Mr V as I can see how strongly he feels  in this matter.  But having  
checked Bacs direct  debit dormancy rules I havent  found that it was Amexs responsibility to 
notify Mr V before his direct debit  was cancelled by his bank. As a result, I dont think it 
would be fair to tell Amex  to cover the interest Mr V lost out on. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6242234