K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Instant Cash Loans Limited (trading as The Money  Shop) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr B had two loans from The Money Shop  between  June  2016 and July 2016 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Repayment Repaid
1 25 Jun 2016 £650 3m 30 Sep 2016 £314.27 6 Jul 2016
2 8 Jul 2016 £1,500 4m 31 Oct 2016 £549.57 Outstanding
Mr B says The Money Shop didnt carry out necessary affordability checks before lending 
him money.  He says that The Money  Shop should have identified that his expenditure 
exceeded his income and that he was in financial difficulty. Mr B adds that better checks 
would have shown  a serious gambling issue, multiple bounced transactions,  other short-term  
loans and payments  to a debt management  plan.
Mr B says The Money Shops negligence has contributed to his poor mental heath and 
extreme financial hardship.
The Money Shop says it asked Mr B for information about his income and expenditure and 
completed a credit check. It says the repayments appeared to be affordable  based  on the 
declared information and there did not appear  to be any issues with other lenders.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
The Money Shop had carried out proportionate  checks for both loans and found there was 
nothing in the information it received that would have indicated  further checks were needed. 
So she didnt conclude The Money  Shop had done anything wrong.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that, although  he would concede that The Money  Shop 
did adequate checks before approving his first loan, he couldnt  agree that it had done  
enough checks for loan 2. He says for loan 2 he declared a 14% higher income than the 
£3,150 which hed declared  just two weeks earlier. He says that that, and the fact hed 
reapplied just two days after repaying  loan 1, should have prompted The Money Shop to 
verify the information,  especially  as the repayments  were a large proportion of his income. 
He adds that hed (correctly) declared his income to be £1,700 in 2015 when he applied for a 
loan from another  Instant  Cash  Loans company. Mr B says a check of his bank statements 
would have shown  the declared  income  figure was incorrect.
Mr B adds that The Money  Shop  lent him £1,600 in two weeks and that, in another  case  
where he was lent £1,000, this service had said it is not sufficient  to rely on income  figures 
provided by the customer.
Mr B also points out that a complaint against  Instant Cash loans for irresponsible  lending  
with regard to another  business  entity was upheld. He says he fail[s] to understand how the 
exact same  company can not be guilty of the exact  same charge when they made the exact  
same mistakes.
Finally, Mr B says his Subject Access Request (SAR) documents did not contain  information 
about credit  searches which  The Money  Shop says it carried out.
Ref: DRN68255252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Money Shop was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make 
sure Mr B could afford to repay  the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr B was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks The Money Shop had to do.
Loan 1
When Mr B applied  for the first loan, he told The Money Shop his income was £3,150 and 
his regular expenditure was £989. The Money Shop reviewed his expenditure figures for 
some of the categories  based on data it had about  average expenditure and increased 
Mr Bs expenditure to just over £1,100.
I can also see that The Money Shop carried out a credit  check,  although it says it doesnt  
have a copy of the results.  So Ive looked  at the credit report Mr B has provided to see what 
information The Money Shop is likely  to have seen. I can see there are a couple  of defaults 
showing on the report, but, as theyre from 2012 and 2013 Im satisfied it would not have  
influenced The Money Shops lending decision in 2016. I can also see that he was on a 
payment arrangement for two other  short-term loans. But Mr B was making regular 
repayments and they did not make The Money  Shop  Loan unaffordable.
Im satisfied there was no indication that The Money  Shop needed to do any further checks  
and that, based on the information  it had, it would  have found loan 1 to be affordable.
Loan 2
Mr B repaid  loan 1 early and applied for his second  loan two days later. This time he told 
The Money Shop his income was £3,600, with expenditure of £1,042. Again, The Money 
Shop increased his expenditure  figure,  but this still gave him a disposable income  of almost 
£2,500. Given  that Mr B had repaid loan 1 early,  Im satisfied the checks  carried out by The 
Money Shop were proportionate  to the circumstances of loan 2. So, I cant  conclude it was 
wrong to approve  it.
I have carefully considered all the additional points raised  by Mr B and I will address them in 
turn:
I acknowledge Mr B declared an increased  income between  loans 1 and 2, but Im 
satisfied The Money Shop  was entitled to rely on such  information  at this stage in the 
lending process.  I cant see there  was anything that should  have indicated  to The 
Money Shop that such information  was likely  to be incorrect.  I accept that the 
repayment was a large proportion  of Mr Bs income which is why I consider a 
proportionate check should have included asking  him about  his expenditure. But The 
Money Shop did this and it showed the repayment was affordable.
Ive considered what Mr B said about the correct  income being declared to another  
Instant Cash Loan company  in 2015.  But, on looking into it further it seems Mr B last 
had a loan from that company in 2013  when it wasnt part of Instant Cash Loans.  So, 
Ref: DRN68255253although I can see Mr B declared an income of £1,600 then, even if Instant Cash  
Loans had that information, I dont think its unreasonable for Mr Bs income to be 
significantly different in 2016.
I also accept Mr Bs bank statements would have shown the discrepancy in income, 
but The Money Shop was not obliged to ask for that level of detail as the checks  it did 
carry out were proportionate to the circumstances  of the lending.
With regard to other cases where the outcome has been  different, I can only look at 
the merits of individual cases.  The circumstances of both the cases  cited by Mr B are 
materially different to this case.
oIn the case where Mr B says he borrowed £1,000, this loan was taken out 
after The Money Shop  loan and some of the reasons for better checks  being 
required were because he was in arrears on loan 2 and was, by then, on a 
debt management  plan.
oThe other Instant Cash Loans complaint relates  to loans from 2012 and 2013, 
when the business  entity was part of a different holding company. Its likely 
that the loan approval  process,  and Mr Bs circumstances, were significantly 
different.
Finally, I acknowledge  that Mr Bs SAR documents  did not contain the results of the 
credit search. As Instant Cash Loans also told this service  that it didnt have the 
results of the search, I cant conclude Mr Bs SAR documents were incomplete.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6825525