K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that HSBC Bank  Plc treated her unfairly when  her debt was being handled 
under a debt management plan because it continued to receive  money after it wrote the debt 
off and has put a default marker  on her credit file.
background
Mrs H was struggling with her finances so she asked a debt management company to help 
her sort things out. At the time, Mrs H had an outstanding debt with HSBC so the debt 
management company  contacted HSBC to arrange  a payment plan in March  2017. At that 
time, the account  was frozen so no more charges or interest  were  applied. In April 2017, 
HSBC received notice  that the debt management  company had set up a repayment plan 
with Mrs Hs debtors. But HSBC didnt feel the amount being paid was enough so it sent her 
a default notice in June  2017 giving her 21 days to pay it off.
HSBC decided to write  off the debt in September 2017 because  no substantial  payments 
were being  made and the outstanding balance was only around  £112 at that time. But Mrs H 
complained that HSBC  passed her debt to a debt collection agency and continued to take 
payments from her account.  She also said an adviser was rude to her when she called to 
sort things  out. HSBC  investigated the complaint  but didnt  think  it should be upheld. So she 
brought her complaint  to this service. Our investigator didnt think  HSBC had acted unfairly 
so Mrs H asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand its been  a difficult time 
for Mrs H because  of her financial difficulties, but based on the evidence  Ive seen, I dont 
think HSBC as treated  Mrs H unfairly  and Ill explain why.
HSBCs tried to find the call Mrs H complains  about with the adviser but it hasnt  been  able 
to identify the call in their call log based on the information shes provided. Therefore Im not 
able to reach any conclusion on this part of the complaint.
HSBCs confirmed it wrote Mrs Hs debt off in September 2017. The debt management 
companys told us that any payments  made to HSBC wouldve been part of an overall 
repayment plan organised  by it with Mrs Hs creditors rather than extra payments. So any 
payments made wouldnt have been requested by HSBC and I dont think  Mrs H has lost out 
financially as a result. So I dont think HSBCs acted unfairly.
Mrs H is unhappy that her credit record shows the debt was defaulted because she says its 
now been written off. But the debt was written off because of a default. The records  need to 
be an accurate record of Mrs Hs financial affairs. Therefore the default record will remain on 
her credit file for six years from the last default and I dont think  HSBCs acted unfairly in its 
reporting to credit reference agencies.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Ref: DRN69234332Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6923433