K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains about the end of lease charges that Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services,  asked  her to pay when she returned a 
car she had been  financing  through  them.
background
Ms C took receipt of a new car in September 2014. She financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS.
At the end of the hire period she returned the car and it was inspected. The inspector  
suggested there were  four areas of damage  that were beyond reasonable wear and tear on 
the car. So VWFS sent a bill for the refurbishment  of scratches to the front and rear bumpers 
and to both front wheels. 
Ms C complained to them. She didnt think the damage was chargeable and she also 
complained that shed  been charged  for excess mileage when it wasnt her fault that the 
cars collection had been delayed. 
VWFS reviewed  the charges but thought  the damage was beyond  fair wear and tear and 
therefore chargeable. They apologised  for the delayed collection of the vehicle and 
explained that this was due to an administrative error. They therefore agreed to reduce the 
excess mileage charges by two months.
Ms C was dissatisfied with their response  so she referred her complaint to this service and 
our adjudicator provided her view. She reviewed the damage that had been highlighted in 
the inspectors  report but she felt the scratches  were  beyond what  the industry guidelines 
suggested was reasonable and she therefore didnt  think VWFS had been unfair when 
asking Ms C to pay to have the damage refurbished.
She understood there  had been  some delays  in arranging  collection of the car but she 
thought VWFSs offer to reduce the extra mileage had been  reasonable and she also 
understood theyd  paid Ms C £100 to compensate  her for the inconvenience that had been 
caused. She didnt  think, in those circumstances,  VWFS  needed  to take any further action.
But Ms C disagreed and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Ms C so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN60754612board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms C acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ms Cs finance agreement explained  that:
3.1 You will be responsible for any damage or deterioration to the vehicle which is in excess 
of fair wear  and tear
The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) set the industry guidelines  for 
what is acceptable wear  and tear when a vehicle  is returned  at the end of a lease. Ive 
considered the photographs of the damage in the inspection  reports  and would agree with 
the adjudicators  findings  and with her reasons  why the damage  is in excess  of that standard 
and is therefore  chargeable.
Ive also reviewed the letters confirming collection of the car and can see Ms C was advised  
that the inspection would  be to BVRLA  guidelines. I think  its therefore fair to say she had the 
opportunity to inspect  the car herself  and have  remedial work carried  out in good time before  
the inspection  was completed. 
Ive considered the delay in collection.  Ms Cs car should have  been  returned in October 
2018 but wasnt collected until February 2019.  VWFS have waived two months worth of 
excess mileage and I think thats  reasonable as Ms C didnt tell them  about  the delay from 
their collection  agents until December. Theyve also paid Ms C £100 to compensate  her for 
the inconvenience and I think thats also fair in the circumstances. Overall, Im not asking 
VWFS to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6075461