K820x#14complaint
Ms P says Calpe Insurance  Company  Limited  wrongly agreed to settle a claim made by 
another driver  on her motor insurance policy, which meant she was required to pay the 
£3,000 all sections  policy excess. Ms P is represented by firm Q. 
  
background
Ms P told Calpe she had moved to the right of her lane to position the car to turn left into a 
side road and was indicating left. Part way through her turn, a car collided with the rear side 
of Ms Ps car. The driver said Ms P had turned her car across  his path. Ms P didnt make a 
claim on her policy, but the other driver did. 
Calpe accepted Ms Ps version of events. But as the other insurer wouldnt settle the claim, 
legal proceedings began. Ms P says she wasnt told about that initially and wasnt  consulted. 
She attended the hearing to give evidence,  but Calpes legal team decided to accept  an offer 
to settle the claim  with liability  split 50:50  between the parties. Ms P said she shouldnt  have 
to pay the policy excess as she wasnt at fault and didnt claim on the policy.  On top of that 
she says she wasnt involved in the discussions about liability  and as she wasnt  a party  to 
the proceedings she didnt get the chance to defend  herself. 
Calpe said Ms P had agreed to be responsible for the costs incurred due to an accident up 
to £3,000 when she bought the policy. And it said the policy allowed it to settle a claim 
without her agreement,  with no admission of liability.  
One of our investigators  considered Ms Ps complaint. He thought  it had acted reasonably. 
He said it had investigated the claim thoroughly and had taken legal  advice. The investigator 
thought Calpe had acted  within the policys terms and conditions. He said it didnt have to 
consult Ms P, as the policy gave it the right to decide how to settle a claim. And he thought 
Ms P was liable for the policy  excess,  as required by the policys  terms and conditions.
Firm Q said Ms P didnt  accept the investigators  view, but it didnt say why. As there  was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
I think its clear  that Calpe made every effort to investigate the accident. It instructed an 
investigator to interview Ms P and to visit the scene  of the accident.  The investigators view 
was that the other drivers  claim should be defended, and Calpe accepted that view. The 
claim ended up in court because the other insurer insisted Ms P was fully to blame.
Calpe instructed a barrister to defend the claim. It seems that on the day of the hearing,  the 
other drivers  legal team offered to settle  the matter with liability split 50:50 between  the 
parties. Theres nothing  on the file to suggest it made an offer prior to this.
Ms P disputes that she told Calpes barrister on the day of the hearing that she couldnt be 
sure whether  she made her final checks before turning left. But theres a note on the file that 
says he thought she shouldnt give evidence in court  in the light of his discussion with Ms P. 
Ref: DRN69157362I think its fair to assume the barrister would  have taken into account all the relevant 
circumstances before giving Calpe his view. The barrister had no reason to mislead Calpe, 
or to give it the wrong information. He thought  if the hearing went  ahead, the outcome was 
likely to be less favourable than the 50:50 split that was already on offer. I think it was fair for 
Calpe to take that seriously and to rely on the barristers advice to accept the offer.  
Calpe wasnt obliged  to consult Ms P at all about how the claim was settled, given that the 
policy gave it the right to make that decision regardless of her view. And the policys  all 
sections excess is clearly  set out in the policy document. It says Ms P has to pay the excess  
of up to £3,000  if she or another party makes a claim on the policy.  It says it makes  no 
difference if a policy holder decides  not to claim on it. I think it was fair for Calpe to require 
Ms P to pay the £3,000  excess. It paid out far more than that on the other drivers claim. And 
it seems the other insurer paid more than the policy excess for the damage to Ms Ps car.     
Ms Ps very upset by the way the claim  was settled. I think  a major  part of that is that she still 
thinks she wasnt even partly at fault for the accident. I think  her expectations were raised by 
Calpe initially accepting  her account  and agreeing to defend the claim. But I think it was 
reasonable for it to change its stance at the last minute due to the advice it got from the 
barrister. I can see that Calpes decision must have been a shock,  as well as disappointing  
news, for Ms P. I sympathise  with the position she found herself in. But taking everything  into 
account, I dont  think  Calpe acted unreasonably.  So I cant  uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6915736