K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1999. Mr B says MBNA  Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
MBNA had to make Mr B aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before
adding it to his card. MBNA has told us that Mr B took the PPI policy  out during an outbound  
marketing call several months after he took out the card itself. Mr B says he didnt take the 
policy out during  a call.
MBNA has sent us the documentation that is available from the time Mr B took out his card.  
The credit card application form Mr B completed had a section for PPI and this shows that at 
the time Mr B applied  for the card he declined the PPI.
MBNA has also sent us a screen print of its internal system showing an outbound marketing 
call took place several months after Mr B took out the card and that PPI was taken out 
during this call. In addition to this MBNA has provided a copy  of the sales  script that was in 
place at the time the call took place.  The script  shows that the representative would have 
been prompted to explain the PPI was optional and gain consent before adding it to the 
card. 
While I dont know for certain how closely the script  was followed, I think  it represents
what was most likely discussed during the call. So, taking everything into consideration I 
think the sales call took place, and MBNA made  it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the 
PPI. Although I can understand why he may not remember this.
MBNA didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr B so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI. Mr B has told us he was entitled to sick pay at 
his employers discretion and may have been  able to rely on his family to help make  his 
repayments. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr B would have 
received. And while Mr Bs family  would  have wanted to help, I dont  think  this offer of help 
could be guaranteed. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont  think
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN67461382my final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6746138