K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the delays in money  being credited to their account following 
the payment of an international  cheque into a branch of Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).  
They believe  Barclays  should  have done  more to expedite the funds being  paid into their 
account. 
background
Mr and Mrs W paid in an international cheque for €5,271.81 at a branch of Barclays  on 
4 February 2019.  Mr W says he was told the cheque could take up to eight weeks to clear. 
But by April 2019,  when  the funds still hadnt appeared in their account, Mr and Mrs W 
complained. They said the cheque issuer  confirmed the cheque had been cashed  on 
14 February 2019 so they wanted to know where  the money was.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. It said it had sent the cheque  for processing as soon as 
it had been paid in but the other bank involved had sent the money to the wrong  entity of 
Barclays. So Barclays had returned  the funds awaiting  payment to the correct entity. 
Barclays said it hadnt received any response to the four messages it had sent to the other  
bank for further  information. But it did confirm it would credit  Mr and Mrs Ws account  as 
soon as the funds were  received. 
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy with that outcome  and brought  their complaint  to us. 
Barclays then confirmed  a credit of £4,395.71 was applied to Mr and Mrs Ws account  on 
2 May 2019,  and was assumed to be the cheque  in question.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said he didnt think Barclays  had made  any errors which  led to the delay. He was also 
satisfied it had tried to chase the other  bank  involved  to find out what had happened, 
although he accepted Barclays could have  communicated  this slightly better  to 
Mr and Mrs W.
But Mr and Mrs W remained  unhappy as they believed  Barclays  should have done  more to 
keep them informed  of its actions and they believe  it was their involvement that led to the 
funds being credited in the end. They  also believed  Barclays should  have  done  more to 
ensure the funds were credited to their account within the eight weeks  that its literature said 
it would  be. They asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman so its been  
passed to me for a final decision.
Mr and Mrs W were subsequently  informed by the other bank that it hadnt been advised by 
Barclays of a new transfer process so they concluded that Barclays  had been  responsible  for 
the delay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see how strongly Mr and Mrs W feel 
about this matter, and I have some sympathy for the frustration theyve  suffered  in not being 
able to have their funds  in their account.  But I dont  think Barclays has done  anything to 
cause the delay here, which I know  isnt the outcome  Mr and Mrs W were  hoping for  so Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN69393512Was it Barclays fault that money  went astray?
Ive seen evidence  to show that on 3 April 2018  Barclays sent an instruction to all institutions 
that it had changed details of how funds should  be sent to it. And Ive seen the schedule it 
sent to the other bank, regarding Mr and Mrs Ws cheque, which clearly showed the new 
account details.  But the other bank sent the money to the wrong account within Barclays so 
it was returned  to the other bank but wasnt then paid to the correct  account until May 2019. 
The other bank  has suggested to Mr and Mrs W that it wasnt  made  aware of the change  in 
account details,  but Im satisfied  from what Ive seen, that Barclays did announce  the 
change to the necessary institutions. So I cant say it was Barclays fault that 
Mr and Mrs Ws cheque  went  astray. 
Did Barclays do enough to find out what had happened to the money?
When this transaction  appeared  to have become lost in the system, I would have expected 
Barclays to have made the necessary  enquiries,  through the SWIFT  messaging  system, to 
find out what had happened to the money and to take prompt,  reasonable steps to ensure 
that the matter  was resolved. And Ive seen  a copy of the swift message that Barclays sent 
the other bank  asking it to advise  if our schedule has been received by yourselves and the 
status of the item as the file remains outstanding. Please reply  by authenticated  swift 
message quoting our reference. Barclays has confirmed that this message was sent on 
three occasions during March and April 2019  and Ive seen how the only response it 
received was on 29 April 2019.
Barclays was required to try to get Mr and Mrs Ws money credited on a best endeavour 
basis. So Im satisfied  Barclays  fulfilled  its responsibility to chase up the missing funds and 
make the necessary enquiries, explaining  how the other bank should respond  to its 
messages. I dont think I can reasonably say that Barclays should have done  more in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W said Barclays should have done more because its literature said funds would 
be credited to their account within eight weeks  and that didnt happen. Barclays  has 
confirmed that it accepted  Mr and Mrs Ws cheque on a collection basis.  That means it 
would obtain payment for the cheque from the drawers bank, before we credit your 
account.  So Mr and Mrs W wouldnt see the funds go into the account  until the cheque had 
been cleared and paid into the correct account. 
Ive then gone on to consider whether Barclays made any guarantees that it would pay the 
funds within  eight weeks regardless. Ive considered the cheque collection and negotiation 
form that was used  and the terms that applied to the transaction. 
And in the notes  section it said while well do our best to make sure your cheque is collected 
as quickly as possible, we rely on the foreign bank to clear the cheque  this may take up to 
eight weeks for some  currencies.
So I cant say Barclays gave any guarantees about  when the cheque  would be paid into the 
account  it gave an approximate guide  of how long it might  take, but also explained that it 
relied on the other bank clearing the cheque correctly to do its best to meet  the time scale. 
 
Should Barclays have  told Mr and Mrs W what it was doing during the time the cheque was 
missing?
Ref: DRN69393513Mr and Mrs W have  said that Barclays didnt keep  them updated with the progress of the 
transaction when  it knew an error had been  made  over where  the cheque  was sent. Theyve  
said that they continually had to chase Barclays for information  and that it was only their 
involvement that eventually led to the money  being paid into the correct account.   And  I do 
accept that it would have been  more helpful  if Barclays had kept them updated about the 
matter. But theres no evidence to show that Barclays had a duty to keep Mr and Mrs W 
updated or that it needed to share with them the steps it had taken to chase up the other 
bank involved.  
So I cant say Barclays has made an error  there or thats its done  anything wrong. Its 
unfortunate that Mr and Mrs W werent made  aware  of the situation until they complained 
about the time it had taken to get the funds  into the account. But I dont think Barclays had a 
responsibility to update  them and it wouldnt be fair for me to say Barclays has made  a 
mistake over that matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 October  2019.
 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6939351