K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained about the advice provided  by ReAssure Limited in 1986 to start a personal 
pension. He says he was informed by the adviser in 1986 that he would receive  a certain  
level of pension and cash lump sum but this will not happen. He believed he had taken out a 
product that best suited his requirements upon  retirement. However, Mr A received a recent 
annual statement and realised he was not due to receive the amount expected.  He would 
like ReAssure to pay the pension benefits  he was originally quoted.
background
Mr A took out a Pension  Plus Plan with ReAssure  in 1986. At the time Mr A was a long 
distance lorry driver with earnings of £9,000 a year. He was 34 years  of
age, married and had two dependent children. 
The pension policy started in 1987. Mr A paid £50 a month  to his pension  - into the Windsor 
Fully Managed Fund. Mr A was provided with an illustration at the time that set out that, 
based on certain assumptions, once he reached  age 65 that hed receive  an estimated tax 
free cash  sum of about 147,000 and an estimated annual  pension of about  44,000.  The 
illustration shows an estimate  of future benefits using projections at 15% and 18% a year.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. The adjudicator thought  that the 
complaint should  not be upheld as he thought appropriate advice had been given. And that 
because the plans value did not increase  in line with the high percentages used for the 
projection estimates, this did not make the advice unsuitable.
Mr A did not agree  with the adjudicator  and requested that an ombudsman review his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of the pension  itself, I do believe  the recommendation of a pension  plan was 
appropriate. Mr A was not recorded as having  any other pension provision and was self-
employed. Therefore  the recommendation of tax efficient  pension plan to build up some 
funds for retirement was a sensible and appropriate step to take. Mr As money was invested 
into a Managed investment fund which would be a reasonable thing to do so that the plan 
over time would have  the prospect of making a good return. It is worth noting that the advice  
was given before the Financial Services Act (1986) came into effect in 1988.  This means 
that regulatory requirements, such as giving best advice and suitable advice, did not apply.  
However Mr A is most concerned that the pension  will not provide the money  he says he 
was led to believe it would.   
I have looked  at the pension illustration Mr A was given  in 1986. This sets out what  the value 
of the pension could be at certain projected growth rates.  The lower growth rate was 15% a 
year. The higher growth rate was 18% a year. The illustration also set out that the average 
growth rate achieved  over the last six years was 22%. The growth rates  were  assumptions.  
The illustration does  not say this is guaranteed  to happen. 
Ref: DRN60779422Unfortunately since Mr A took out his pension  growth rates  have actually been a lot less than 
this. So the actual values he will receive  are likely to be only a fraction  of the original figures 
projected. I understand that this will be very disappointing for Mr A who was expecting  far 
more. However the fact that the policy has not achieved the value  hoped  for is not evidence 
the policy has been mis-sold or Mr A received  flawed advice. As discussed,  it is only that the 
performance of the policy hasnt been as hoped for. As Mr A said in his original complaint to 
ReAssure, the figures were estimated.  They  were  reasonable  assumptions based on what  
growth rates were being achieved  at the time. Without evidence  that Mr A was guaranteed 
that he would receive  the higher values I cannot uphold his complaint. 
Whilst I appreciate that Mr A has said that he was not aware that he was taking a risk with 
what benefits he could  achieve and this was not explained to him, it is difficult  to establish 
now, over 30 years  for the time the advice was given, what exactly  was discussed. However 
the illustration did not guarantee certain  amounts would  be achieved. And ReAssure states 
that the relevant brochures and terms for the policy would have been supplied  (which would 
have been normal). Whilst I note Mr A says he did not receive these documents there is 
insufficient evidence  to decide  that they were  not supplied. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6077942