K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains (on behalf of herself and the estate  of her late husband, Mr F) that Lloyds  
Bank PLC (trading at the time as C&G) mis-sold them a number of payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about monthly premium PPI policies which  Mr and Ms F took out with a 
mortgage in 1998, and with further advances on that mortgage. The further advances  were  
made in March and November  2002,  and December 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Ms Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mr and Ms Fs signed application  for the original  mortgage  in 1998. It includes 
a section on insurance. Under  a clear sub-heading Payment  Protection Insurance  it 
says I have  received information  about  C&G  Payment Protection Plus. I wish to apply 
for cover and have completed  the relevant  proposal form.  Next to that are equally 
prominent Yes and No options.  The yes box is ticked.  
I think it was clear from the way the mortgage  application form was set out that PPI was 
optional. And I think Mr and Ms F decided to take it out knowing that they had a choice  
although I can understand why Ms F may no longer remember  this, so many  years later.
Mr and Ms F took out two further advances on the mortgage in 2002, and a final advance  
in 2003. On each  of those occasions,  Im satisfied that it was clear  from the way PPI was 
referred to in the application form for the further  advance that it was optional.  And on 
each occasion  Mr and Ms F both signed  a separate application form for the PPI. So 
again, I think theyd have  realised at the time that PPI was optional.  And I think  they 
chose to take it, knowing that they didnt have to.
Lloyds  no longer  has a record of how the original mortgage was sold to Mr and Ms F. But 
Ms F says they applied for the mortgage  at a meeting with the bank. Ive assumed  for the 
purposes of my decision  that this is right, and that Lloyds recommended the PPI to 
Mr and Ms F. Lloyds  records  show that Mr and Ms F took out all the further advances at 
meetings with the bank,  and it advised them  to take PPI on each occasion. This means 
that each  time Mr and Ms F took out a PPI policy, Lloyds had a responsibility to check 
that it was suitable  for them.  But it doesnt look as if the policies  were  unsuitable, based 
on what Ive seen of Mr and Ms Fs circumstances when they took them out.
Ref: DRN62918582The policies  taken out from October 2002 onwards covered Mr F only. Before that, if 
either Mr or Ms F had made  a successful claim on the PPI for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment, it would have  paid 50% of the monthly benefit under the policy for up to 
12 months. Thats significantly longer than Ms Fs told us shed have been entitled  to full 
sick pay for. And I think its unlikely, from what we know of Mr Fs employment at the 
time, that hed have been entitled to 12 months or more full sick pay.
Under  the policies taken out in October 2002  and December 2003,  if Mr F had made a 
successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, the full monthly benefit would 
have been paid for up to 12 months.
Repeat claims would  have been  possible on all the policies, giving Mr and Ms F long-
term protection for their monthly  mortgage payments.
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Ms Fs mortgage  was a major financial commitment. It 
was due to run for a long period of time. And their home would have been at risk if they 
didnt keep up with their mortgage  payments. 
Ms Fs told us that aside from any payments from their employers, she and her late 
husband didnt have  any other  means  they could have used to make  their mortgage 
payments if either of them had been off sick, or had been  made  redundant. So taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI policies could have provided  them with a useful 
benefit at what  would  have been a difficult time.
Its possible  that Lloyds could have  explained  the cost of the policies better  than it did. 
But the policies were  competitively  priced.  And I think  that Mr and Ms F chose to take out 
the PPI cover  because they wanted the protection that it gave them,  even if Ms F has 
understandably forgotten this now, so long after the event.  So Im not convinced  that 
better information  about the cost of the policies would have put Mr and Ms F off taking 
them out. And as they were paying  for the PPI monthly, they could have cancelled  it at 
any time without  further cost if they changed their minds, or if their circumstances 
changed.
Its possible  Lloyds  didnt point out the main  things  the policies didnt cover  for 
example, unusual  working arrangements  or existing medical conditions. But based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, its unlikely Mr and Ms F would have  
been affected by any of these.  So I dont think that better  information about  the policies 
would have changed Mr and Ms Fs minds about  taking  them out. On balance, I think 
theyd still have wanted the PPI.
Ive taken into account all Ms Fs comments,  including what  shes  said about not having  
been aware at the time that further  advances had been taken out on the mortgage. Shes 
suggested that her signatures on the applications for the further advances and 
corresponding PPI policies may have been  forged. 
This is a very serious allegation  to make, and I would need strong evidence to persuade  me 
that the signatures on those documents arent genuinely Ms Fs.
Ref: DRN62918583I have no expertise in handwriting or signature analysis. So I cant  safely  determine  whether 
the signatures on the further advance applications and PPI applications match Ms Fs 
signature on other documents Ive seen. I have no reason other  than what  Ms Fs said to 
doubt that the signatures on the further advance and PPI applications  are genuine.  So I cant  
safely conclude that she didnt sign those documents at the time the applications were 
made. If Ms F disagrees with my finding on this point she is free to reject my decision and 
pursue the matter through the courts.
So Im sorry to disappoint Ms F, but these  points dont  change my conclusion. I dont think  
the PPI policies were  mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6291858