K821x#15complaint
Mr I and Miss P complain  that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold them  a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a mortgage.
background
Mr I and Miss P had a joint mortgage  with Santander. At the end of 2005 Santander sold 
Miss P a PPI policy along with other insurance products. The policy was taken in Miss Ps 
sole name and wouldve  covered the repayments  on the mortgage  for up to 12 months at a 
time if Miss P was made redundant or she was too ill to work.  
Our adjudicator thought Mr I and Miss Ps complaint should be upheld because  Miss P had a 
pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) at the time of the sale.  She didnt  think the restrictive 
terms relating to PEMCs were adequately drawn to Miss Ps attention and she didnt think  
the policy should have been  recommended  without  pointing  this out to Miss P. 
Santander disagrees. It says because Miss Ps condition wasnt formally diagnosed until 
after the policy commenced it wasnt a PEMC. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr I and Miss Ps complaint.
Santander advised Miss P to buy the policy, so it was under a duty to ensure  that any 
recommendation it made was suitable  to her needs  and circumstances. And Santander were 
also under  a duty to provide Miss P with information on PPI in a clear,  fair and non-
misleading way so she could make  an informed choice about whether she wanted to take 
the policy. To make an informed choice Miss P needed to understand the costs and benefits 
of PPI, as well as the main exclusions and limitations of the policy.
One of the main exclusions relate  to PEMCs.  The policy document says:
We will not pay the monthly  benefit  if your disability arises from any of the following:
-Any condition you had at the start date, or any condition  for which  you received 
treatment or advice during the 12 months before the start date.
Miss P has told us she was diagnosed with a PEMC  in 2006 but the symptoms  started 
appearing in 2005  and were being medically investigated. Miss P has provided evidence  to 
show that she was having diagnostic testing  at an NHS site around six weeks after her policy  
commenced.
Ref: DRN66685492Im in agreement with our adjudicator here in that this evidence  supports  Miss P was 
suffering from a condition  that was severe  enough  to warrant  further investigation and that 
due to waiting  periods  for these types of diagnostic tests its likely she would have waited 
sometime after being referred by her doctor.  And given what Miss Ps condition was 
eventually diagnosed as I think its likely this condition was in existence before the policy 
commenced in January  2006 and before the policy was sold in late 2005. 
So Im satisfied Miss P suffered from a PEMC  which was excluded from cover under  the 
policy. I think the PEMC exclusion wouldve mattered to Miss P because  she wouldnt have 
been able to make a successful claim for time off work related to her condition. And I dont 
think shed have taken  the policy if things were  made clearer  and she understood this.
Santander say any PEMC  would have been discussed at the point of sale, but I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest this happened. I have looked at the needs analysis and 
recommendation given by Santander at the time the policy was sold and I cant see that any 
questions were asked  about PEMCs or any information provided on this. And although 
Miss P may have been provided with a policy summary document which outlined significant  
exclusions - this doesnt show me that the advisor  took the time to explain this or investigate 
whether Miss P could be affected  by this before the policy was recommended  to her and 
before she agreed  to take the policy. 
So I think Mr I and Miss P have lost out financially because Santander didnt make the 
exclusions relating  to PEMCs  clear to Miss P. Because of this I uphold Mr I and Miss Ps 
complaint. 
what Santander should do to put things right
Santander should put Mr I and Miss P in the position  they would be in now if they hadnt  
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled if it hasnt already been and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr I and Miss P the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr I and Miss P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr I and Miss P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr I and Miss Ps complaint against Santander UK 
Plc and direct it pay the fair compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Ref: DRN66685493Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6668549