K820x#14Complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont cancel a loan or refund unauthorised 
transactions on his account.
Background
Mr R said he was the victim of a scam and identity theft. 
From 24 January 2018 to 7 February 2018,  Mr Rs debit card was used  for multiple  
transactions, totalling over £50,000. Most of the transactions were made in Turkey. They 
included large  payments  to merchants and online bets. They were funded by three loans, 
which were taken out in Mr Rs name. The loans were paid directly into his current  account. 
A loan for £18,200 was taken out with Lloyds via his online banking.
Mr R said he only became  aware of the transactions when  he received a letter from Lloyds 
telling him his account was overdrawn.  He said he checked his account  online and saw the 
disputed transactions.  He called Lloyds immediately, on 7 February 2018, and raised  a fraud  
complaint.
Mr R told Lloyds he didnt make the card transactions and he didnt apply  for the loans. He 
said he had received a phone call around 21 January 2018 from someone claiming to be a 
Lloyds staff member. The caller told him there  had been fraudulent activity on his account 
and made  an appointment for a member of staff to visit him at home  in order to verify his 
identity. 
Mr R said a gentleman arrived on the morning of 23 January 2018, wearing a suit and a 
Lloyds Bank  ID badge on a lanyard. The man took away his debit card but before doing  so 
he asked him to enter his PIN into a card terminal. He also asked to see identity  documents  
and Mr R showed him his passport. The man told him a debit card would  be delivered within 
10 working days. However,  he never  received the card.
Mr R asked Lloyds to cancel the loan for £18,200  and to reimburse his losses.
Lloyds investigated  his claim but decided  not to reimburse him or cancel the loan. It 
concluded that Mr R had authorised the transactions and knew  about the loan because:-
he logged on to his online  banking the evening of 23 January and changed  his 
password
five minutes later there was log on to his online  banking from a different IP address, 
but the new password would have been entered
the loan was applied for via his online banking
Lloyds sent confirmation that the loan had been  approved to his email address and 
he would  have  seen  it, but he didnt raise  any concerns
the first disputed transaction was a payment to Turkish Airlines. It was declined. 
Lloyds sent a text message to his mobile phone number asking him to confirm if the 
payment was genuine. It received  a reply confirming that it was a genuine payment
he didnt chase the replacement card even  though more  than 10 days had passed.
Mr R wasnt happy with Lloyds decision, so he asked this service to investigate.
Ref: DRN63166202An investigator carried out a detailed investigation,  but he didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He 
agreed there  was evidence that someone  else had access  to Mr Rs account, but he felt 
unable to conclude  that Mr R had been  the victim of a scam. He considered,  on balance, that 
Mr R had given a third party access to his account. By doing  so, he had authorised the 
disputed transactions  and was responsible for the loan.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out, in full, the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr R and Lloyds have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr R that Ive read the file, including his and his partners  comments.
Ive also seen the evidence in his complaints  against two other lenders.
At this stage, I should clarify that there  are two sets of disputed transactions: the debit card 
payments and the loan applications.  Based on what Mr R has told us, theres nothing  to 
connect the bogus Lloyds  employee  with the loan applications. However, I dont think  we 
are looking  at two separate incidents of fraud  by different perpetrators. This has never been 
suggested. Its more  likely  the disputed card payments and loan applications  are connected, 
especially as the evidence shows they were  made  in Turkey.  So, Im treating the disputed 
card payments and the loan application  as part of the same fraud. 
In short,  Lloyds is required to refund  the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mr R said he didnt  make the disputed transactions,  so my primary concern is to 
come to a view about whether or not I think he authorised them.
Having reviewed the banks technical  reports,  Im satisfied that Mr Rs genuine card was 
used in order for the disputed transactions to take place.  Some  of the card payments  were 
also made with Mr Rs PIN. But the regulations  relevant  to this case say that is not, on its 
own, enough to enable Lloyds to hold him liable. So, I also need  to think  about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mr R consented to the transactions  
being made. 
The relevant  regulations  only apply  to the card payments, not the loan. But when I consider 
whether he consented,  I do have to look at all the evidence including the loan applications 
and access to his online banking.
I think its clear  someone else had access to Mr Rs account and was impersonating him. 
Weve been told by one of the lenders that it had received two calls from someone claiming 
to be Mr R. It said the caller had a strong foreign accent. After speaking  with Mr R, the 
lender was satisfied  it wasnt him. The caller also sent a photograph of Mr Rs passport. The 
Ref: DRN63166203photograph was identical in terms of placing, lighting and shade to the one he had sent the 
lender.
The lender  also provided evidence showing that the same device was used to make  the loan 
application in Mr Rs name and another application  ten days later in another  persons name. 
There were also two payments into Mr Rs account from that person. The payments were 
spent as soon  as they were received. 
The crucial  question is whether Mr R was complicit  with this activity?
Mr R said he didnt know who this person was or why the payments were made into his 
account. He told us he is an agency/contract worker and when  he registers  with an agency,  
he must provide  a copy  or photograph-  of his passport  no doubt to show  his entitlement  
to work in the UK. And presumably he also provides his bank account details in order  to get 
paid. His bank statement  confirms this. I can see regular payments  from job agencies. 
So, on the face of it, there is a plausible explanation for how his identity and bank details 
couldve been stolen  and used. It explains how someone could easily  call him pretending  to 
be from his bank. And it explains how a third party  had his details  to complete a loan 
application.
However, Mr R cant explain how the bogus  visitor or any other third party gained access  to 
his online  banking or his mobile phone.  And Im afraid this discrepancy  leads  me to doubt his 
version of events.
Lloyds online banking report shows that Mr R used  his mobile phone for online banking.  His 
mobile phone is registered to the app. I understand he registered for the app a week before 
the disputed transactions began.
Mr R has consistently said he didnt share his online banking  password or log in details with 
anyone else. He told us and Lloyds that he changed the password to his online banking on 
the evening of 23 January 2018   the day he received a visit from the bogus employee. He 
wouldnt say why he changed the password. The online banking report  confirms  he did this 
at 10.47pm.  He logged on again  at 10.52pm with the new password. 
At 10.54pm there is a log on from a different IP address  and not from his mobile phone. 
Theres no technical explanation for how a third party  could log on if they didnt know the 
password, which  hed changed  only minutes  earlier. 
I asked Lloyds whether  a change in password is immediate. It confirmed it was.
I asked whether two people could log on to the same account simultaneously.  Lloyds tested 
this using the web browser and the mobile  banking app. It confirmed it was able to log on 
from both at the same time. However, it clarified that any dual activity would be recorded on 
the online banking  log. No such activity was recorded.
I also asked if it were  possible for a third party to log on and remain logged on while  Mr R 
logged on afterwards and changed his password. Lloyds said this would only be possible if 
the person had Mr Rs device to begin with and then switched to another  device with a 
browser using a virtual  private network.  In short, it said this didnt happen.
Ref: DRN63166204Im afraid I have no other  explanation  for how an unknown third party  logged  on to Mr Rs 
online banking, especially after he had changed the password. Based on the technical  
evidence, I can only conclude that either  Mr R logged on himself or he had shared his online 
banking details, including the new password, with someone else.  
Lloydss technical  reports also show that, when the first disputed payment was made,  its 
security system blocked the payment and sent a text message to Mr Rs mobile phone 
number asking him to confirm if the transaction was genuine. This transaction was a 
purchase for a flight to Turkey. It received confirmation from Mr Rs phone number that it 
was a genuine transaction. 
The investigator considered the possibility of a SIM swap, but Mr R didnt mention having 
any problems with his phone. He didnt report any faults to his mobile  phone  provider or 
have his phone inspected.
Ive considered whether malware was downloaded on his phone  but, again,  Mr R has 
consistently told us that he didnt lose his phone or give it to anyone else. We asked  him, 
anyway, if the bogus  employee had access to his phone. He replied - 
the man entered my house as he asked me for forms  of id after he identified himself, I 
went to get them and when I came back he'd stepped  into the house he was in my property 
for roughly 20 minutes. I had left the room a couple  of times where he was left alone, my 
girlfriend was home at the time and no i didn't  have  a password on my phone.
it would  have been possible for the man to access my device while  I was out of the room but 
I could not say whether he did
Im afraid Im not convinced this evidence shows the man had access  to Mr Rs mobile 
phone, let alone his online banking details, or that he had the opportunity to download any 
malware onto Mr Rs phone. Besides,  the banks own notes record  that Mr Rs partner said 
she was not only in the house, but she helped  answer questions, so she was present in the 
room. I dont see how the man could  have tampered  with Mr Rs mobile phone  without  being  
caught.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Mr R replied to the text message.
I consider that the online banking and mobile  phone evidence is fairly  strong  evidence  that 
Mr R allowed a third party to use his account  and that he knew  his account  was being used 
by that person. 
Ive also taken into account the following evidence:
Lloyds sent an email to Mr Rs email address confirming that the loan had been 
approved. Its the same  email  address as the one we hold on file for him.
The person  who applied for the loan didnt change the contact details for Mr R. This 
increased the risk of being caught  and so it was an unusual step for a fraudster  to 
take.
There are no online  banking logons from Mr Rs mobile phone  from 24 January to 6 
February, which was unusual as he logged on frequently  in the days leading up to 
the disputed transactions.
Mr R used his account for petrol, food and the odd outgoings. All spending in the UK 
ceased between  24 January 2018  and 7 February  2018. I understand he said he 
Ref: DRN63166205didnt have his card and relied on his partner and mum for money but there are no 
online transactions either.
A third party made two payments into Mr Rs account. The loans were also paid 
directly into his account. Whoever made  these payments was confident they could  
withdraw the money easily  and without challenge.
According to the banks  notes,  Mr R didnt  chase Lloyds  for a replacement card. 
When he called the bank on 7 February 2018  it was to complain about the disputed 
transactions. The notes record him saying he didnt think to ask where his new card 
was.
Mr R did not report the bogus  employee  to the police  after finding out he wasnt  
genuine.
Taking everything into account,  I believe someone Mr R knew had access to his account. 
And I think its more likely than not that he allowed that person to use his card and online 
banking, possibly in return for a financial  benefit. He might not have known the full extent of 
how they used  his banking details, but Im afraid hes still treated as having authorised the 
disputed card payments  under the relevant regulations and Lloyds is entitled to hold him 
liable for them.
I also think its more likely  the third party applied for the loan.  However, the evidence shows  
that Mr R knew what  was going on. In these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask Lloyds to cancel the loan agreement if he has acted in bad faith. 
For the reasons  Ive given, I think its fair and reasonable  for Lloyds to refuse to cancel the 
loan and to refuse to reimburse his losses.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr R, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6316620