K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what  DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) did 
after he made a claim  on his legal expenses insurance policy.  
background
In 2016 Mr H suffered  an injury at work. He subsequently got in touch with DAS seeking 
assistance in making  a personal injury claim but didnt pursue matters at that stage. In May 
2018 solicitors acting for Mr H contacted DAS and said he wanted to pursue the claim and 
they wanted to be instructed under the terms of the policy.  
DAS said once proceedings were  issued then it would be happy  to consider appointing 
Mr Hs own solicitors. But as legal proceedings hadnt been issued then under the policy 
terms and the law Mr H didnt have  the freedom of choice to appoint  his own solicitors. It 
didnt believe a judgement reached by the European Free Trade  Association (EFTA) court  
which Mr Hs solicitors had referenced affected the position here. But it did accept there  had 
been some  customer service failings in dealing with his claim for which it agreed to pay 
£100. 
Our investigator thought that was fair but Mr Hs solicitors didnt agree. They argued the 
EFTA judgement was relevant and it meant Mr H should  be able to appoint  his own solicitors 
prior to proceedings being issued.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
As with any insurance  policy the starting  point  is the policy  terms. And in relation  to this issue 
they say:
On receiving a claim, if legal  representation is necessary, we will appoint a preferred
law firm or in-house lawyer as your appointed  representative to deal with your claim. 
They will try to settle your claim by negotiation without having to go to court
If the appointed preferred law firm or our in-house lawyer  cannot negotiate settlement of 
your claim and it is necessary to go to court and legal proceedings are issued or there is 
a conflict of interest, then you may choose a law firm to act as the appointed 
representative.
So under the terms of the policy Mr H only has the right to choose his own solicitor  where  its 
necessary to go to court and legal  proceedings are issued or where theres  a conflict of 
interest. 
Mr Hs solicitors say this is contrary to a judgement that was reached by the EFTA court so 
Ive reviewed that judgement. I understand the EFTA court has jurisdiction over the EFTA 
states (and that doesnt include the UK). And its decisions are advisory only. So while they 
are taken into account by the European Court  of Justice they arent in themselves binding in 
UK law. I also note the policy  wording quoted in the judgement  differs significantly from that 
in Mr Hs policy. So I dont think theres a direct read across to the circumstances of this 
case. 
In addition the key question the court advised on was whether an insured persons  decision 
to appoint their own solicitor without the consent of the insurer  released  the insurer from their 
Ref: DRN66723032obligations under  the policy. In this case I dont think  DAS has argued that Mr Hs decision to 
instruct his own solicitor  released it from its obligations under his policy;  DAS says it was 
prepared to fulfil those obligations by appointing  a firm of panel solicitors. 
In any case while Im required to take into account  the law, ultimately  my role is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case. And its long been our 
approach that a policyholder should  be allowed to choose their own solicitors from the point 
that legal  proceedings need to be started   i.e. when negotiations have failed and it has 
been decided  by the lawyers involved that it will be necessary to issue  proceedings to 
progress the legal  case. The only exceptions to this are where there  are exceptional  
circumstances that apply to the case or where theres a conflict of interest.
Having looked  at the claim Mr H wants to bring  I dont think there are exceptional reasons 
that mean he should be entitled to choose  his own solicitors at this stage;  the claim doesnt, 
for example, appear to be particularly complex. Ive not seen anything to suggest theres a 
conflict of interest here either. And at the point  Mr Hs solicitors  got in touch with DAS it 
doesnt appear proceedings needed  to be started. So I dont  think DAS treated him unfairly  
by advising that if Mr H wanted to pursue the claim it could instruct one of its panel law firms 
to take this forward on his behalf. 
And while I agree there were some  customer service  failings  in the way it handled his claim I 
think the £100 its agreed to pay does enough  to put things right here.  Of course I appreciate 
matters will have moved on in relation to the claim so if proceedings do now need to be 
started Mr H may wish to let DAS know  so it can review the position. 
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited Mr Hs representatives  and DAS to let me have any further comments  they wanted 
me to consider by 13 June. DAS didnt  have anything to add. Mr Hs representatives didnt 
respond to the provisional decision (or the further reminder we sent). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has provided any substantive comments I dont have any reason  to alter the 
view I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6672303