K820x#14complaint
Mr M opened a Help to Buy ISA with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Hes unhappy that the bank 
didnt advise him about the bonus scheme threshold.
background
In December 2017 Mr M opened a Help to Buy ISA with Barclays.  In April 2018  he tried to 
withdraw funds from the ISA to help with a property purchase, but was advised that the ISA 
wouldnt be paying the interest  element because the purchase  price of the property was 
above the threshold of £250,000.
Mr M says he shouldve  been provided with information about the threshold when he opened  
the ISA. He says if hed been told about the threshold he wouldve chosen  a different 
savings option.  
Mr M wants compensation for the interest  he wouldve received under the scheme.
Barclays says Mr M was provided with the terms and conditions of the ISA which  included  an 
outline of the thresholds. It declined  to pay compensation on the basis that, even  if Mr M had 
been aware of the threshold, he wouldnt have been eligible for the scheme because of the 
price of the property he was purchasing.   
Mr M wasnt happy with Barclays response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Barclays had provided Mr M with 
documents which correctly outlined the thresholds.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said hed met with a mortgage  adviser before he opened  the ISA and 
had made  her aware that he intended  to purchase a property  for more than £250,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Help to Buy ISA is a government scheme for first time buyers. Eligible buyers  can 
receive a government bonus of 25% of the amount saved up to a maximum of £3000. The 
rules of the Help to Buy scheme are set by the government, not by the ISA provider.
Ive reviewed the information about  the conversations and meetings Mr M had with Barclays  
before he opened the ISA. Ive listened to a call dated 13 September 2017 in which  Mr M 
told Barclays he wanted to purchase  a property  for £300,000 and that he had a deposit  of 
£10,000 - £15,000.  Neither Mr M nor the bank mentioned a Help to Buy ISA during the call.
I can see that Mr M met with the banks mortgage  advisor on 14 September 2017. I cant  
confirm exactly what discussions took place. Mr M says he wrote  down  the value of the 
property he was hoping  to buy and the ISA. However, because Mr M didnt  open  the ISA 
until 3 months later in December 2017,  I think its unlikely that he would have discussed this 
with the advisor  in September  2017.
Ref: DRN60463472Theres no evidence to suggest that Barclays advised Mr M that a Help to Buy ISA was a 
suitable product  for him. The decision to open the ISA was one which Mr M took alone. This 
is known as a non-advised sale. With such a sale, the bank is required to provide clear  
information about how the product works. It doesnt  need to consider suitability, but it 
shouldnt mislead  the customer  if asked general  questions about how the product works.
I appreciate that Mr M feels  that it would have been obvious to Barclays that he would be 
purchasing a property  which exceeded the threshold of £250,000.  He says the bank 
shouldve made  him aware that a Help to Buy ISA wasnt a suitable product, given his 
circumstances. As Ive already said, with a non advised sale,  the bank isnt required  to 
consider suitability. Barclays provided  Mr M with information which  explained how the ISA 
worked and correctly outlined the thresholds. Because of this, Im unable to say that 
Barclays has done anything wrong.
Mr M hasnt  said that he asked any questions about the ISA. Theres  nothing to suggest that 
Barclays provided misleading information  about  the thresholds. The documents  provided to 
Mr M correctly outline the thresholds.  Even if Mr M didnt read these documents,  in providing 
the documents to Mr M, the bank has fulfilled its obligation to provide clear  information about 
the product.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im unable to conclude  that the 
bank has treated Mr M unfairly.  For the reasons Ive given, I wont be asking Barclays  to do 
anything. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6046347