K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Marsh Finance & Commercial Ltd (Marsh) unfairly entered into 
an unaffordable  hire purchase agreement with them.  Theyve  said that the monthly 
payments were unaffordable and their account was in arrears almost  from the outset. 
Background
In May 2014, Marsh  provided Mr and Mrs J with finance for a used car. The purchase  price 
was £8,779.00. Mr and Mrs J paid a deposit of £100 and the remaining £8,679.00  was 
funded through a hire purchase loan from Marsh. The loan had an annual  percentage rate 
(APR) of 27.7% and was due to be repaid in 59 instalments of £251.54  followed by a final 
instalment of £450.54. 
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs J complained  that the agreement was unaffordable. Marsh 
didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint. It said that its checks  confirmed that the finance was 
affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  was considered by one of our investigators.  He didnt think  that 
Marsh had done anything wrong  or treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly. So he didnt recommend 
that Mr and Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with our 
investigator and the complaint was passed  to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about irresponsible  and unaffordable  lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
Marsh needed  to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice, what this means  is 
that Marsh needed to carry  out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr and Mrs J before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high,  or the information the lender had  such  as a significantly impaired 
credit history   suggested the lender needed  to know  more  about a prospective  borrowers  
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr and Mrs Js complaint.  Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Marsh says it agreed to this application  after Mr and Mrs J provided details of their monthly 
incomes and were asked  to provide  payslips  to verify this. It says it also carried  out separate  
credit searches on Mr and Mrs J which didnt show anything too concerning. In these 
circumstances, it was satisfied Mr and Mrs J could  between  them  make the monthly 
Ref: DRN60574522payments and it was reasonable  to lend. On the other hand,  Mr and Mrs J say the payments 
were unaffordable and this is evidenced  by the fact that their account  soon fell into arrears.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr and Mrs J and Marsh have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that while Mr and Mrs J initially said Marsh entered into the 
agreement with them at a time when Mrs J was studying and not in employment,  Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs J told Marsh Mrs J was in employment at the time and they provided  a 
payslip to evidence  this was the case. Its possible that it was already in Mr and Mrs Js 
contemplation that Mrs J would be leaving  her job to return  to studying. And while  I 
sympathise with the fact that Mr and Mrs J might  have  later found more  it difficult  to make  
the payments  on their agreement from a reduced  household income, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that they notified  Marsh  Mrs J wouldnt continue working.
Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly 
payment, I would have  expected Marsh to have some kind of understanding about             
Mr and Mrs Js regular living expenses and their existing credit commitments. It looks like 
credit checks were  carried out on Mr and Mrs J. Ive seen what  Mr J has said about  his 
previous payday  lending  and defaults. The search does show that Mr J had taken payday 
loans in the past. But there were none  that were  active at the time. 
I accept the information Mr and Mrs J have provided shows Mr J had outstanding ones at 
that stage. But this agreement was provided  at a time when payday  lenders didnt routinely 
report to all credit reference agencies. This may well be the reason why these loans didnt 
show up in Marshs searches. Furthermore,  as the credit searches on Mrs J didnt show  up 
anything too concerning and bearing in mind the combined amount of Mr and Mrs Js 
salaries, which was verified  with payslips, I think it was reasonable for Marsh to proceed  on 
the basis that the monthly payment would more likely than not be affordable for them.
Ive also seen what Mr and Mrs J have said about bank statements having been  produced.  
But having  looked at the documentation from the time and the audit of information  that was 
requested, Im satisfied  that they werent  and given  what Ive already said, I dont think that it 
was necessary to request them, bearing  in mind the circumstances either. 
So overall and having carefully considered  everything, I think  that Marshs  checks before 
entering into this hire purchase  agreement with Mr and Mrs J did go far enough. And Im 
satisfied that Marsh was reasonably entitled to believe  that Mr and Mrs J would  be able to 
make their payments when it entered into this hire purchase agreement with them.
Overall and having carefully considered  everything, I dont think  that Marsh  acted unfairly  
when entering  into this hire purchase  agreement with Mr and Mrs J. So Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6057452