K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) failed to follow  her instruction to close 
her account,  which  led to charges and debit interest  being applied.
background
When Miss P raised her complaint with this service  she explained that she noticed  her 
account was around  £25 overdrawn in October 2008. She says she visited  an HSBC branch 
to credit £30, and at that time she gave a verbal instruction to close her account,  which  she 
believed had been done.
Miss P says she received no further bank statements until October  2017,  when she received 
a statement  letting her know her account was almost £700  overdrawn. She says that she 
visited an HSBC branch at that point and was told her account had been marked as a 
dormant account,  rather than closed, and that the charges shed incurred would be refunded.
Our adjudicator explained that she didnt  think HSBC  had got things wrong by not closed 
Miss Ps account. Miss P didnt agree, so the complaint  has come to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC doesnt  have a record of Miss P requesting to close her account so Ive started  by 
thinking carefully about what Miss P has said. 
I understand that with the passing of time memories can fade or become unclear, but Im not 
persuaded, based on everything, that Miss P asked HSBC to close her account.  Ill explain 
why.
As Ive said,  Miss P initially said that she visited one of HSBCs branches  on 3 November 
2008, at which point she asked to close her account. When  she raised her complaint with 
HSBC, in 2017, she said shed visited the branch  three to four years ago  so around  
2013-14. And within her complaint  to this service Miss P has also said that the instruction 
was given in 2011-12, but also that she remembers  her visit to the branch just before it 
closed down, which HSBC says was in November  2016. 
Given the variations  in Miss Ps testimony,  Im not persuaded that Miss P clearly remembers 
the visit to the branch when she says she asked to close her account.  But Ive also gone on 
to look at the way she used  her account.  
I can see that the last time Miss P visited the HSBC  branch in question  was in April 2013,  
when she deposited  £2,000 in cash. For a number  of weeks after that she used her debit 
card to spend that money, as well as it being  used to pay regular bills from her account. So 
Im not persuaded that this visit to the branch  was the visit that Miss P recalls, which  she 
says was to bring  her account back into credit and ultimately close  it. 
Following this, the account wasnt  used much until September 2013 when £150 cash was 
paid in  at a different HSBC branch. 
Ref: DRN63719522Although the £150 Miss P paid in in September 2013 did take her overdrawn balance fairly 
close to zero, Im also mindful that this wasnt paid in at the branch  she says she asked to 
close her account in. So Im not persuaded this is the time she recalls,  either.
HSBC has provided  a call note from December 2013 in which it was told by an unknown  
third party that Miss P had passed away. The note is very brief and doesnt explain who 
made that call, and it looks as though the call was terminated before any further details were 
given. HSBC says that it only became aware  that Miss P hadnt  in fact passed  away  around 
eight months later,  when she visited one of its branches to open another  account.
Whilst I dont have  any further details of the call in which HSBC was told Miss P had passed 
away, nor of Miss Ps visit to the branch in 2014, I do think  that at that point shed have at 
least become aware that the account she says she had closed was in fact still open.  
HSBC has also provided records of, and copies of, numerous letters  that it has sent to 
Miss P over the years. I note that these letters are personalised letters relating to unpaid 
items, the accounts  overdraft limit, and the insurance benefits applicable to Miss Ps 
account. Theyre addressed personally  to Miss P, at the address HSBC  held on file for her.
Ive contacted HSBC to check whether  Miss Ps account has ever been  made  dormant, or 
been in a position where mail wouldnt have been sent out to Miss P. HSBC says that it has 
never had an instruction  not to send  mail to Miss P, and nor do any of the account notes 
suggest there ever has been. So on balance, Im satisfied that HSBC sent the numerous 
letters that it says it did to Miss P, as well as bank statements.
Having considered everything, I havent seen enough to make  me think that Miss P believed 
her account  would be closed and it wasnt. Additionally, Im satisfied that HSBC  has done 
enough over the years  to make Miss P aware  that her account was still open.
I do acknowledge that HSBC mayve given Miss P the wrong  information in 2017 when she 
visited the branch,  by telling her that her account had been made dormant and that the 
charges would be refunded. But despite this, that doesnt change  the events that happened 
in the lead up to it. So it doesnt  change my decision.
I want to reassure Miss P that Ive carefully  considered her complaint,  and Ive thought  about  
everything shes said. But having done  so, for the reasons Ive explained, I havent 
concluded that HSBC has failed to carry out Miss Ps instruction to close her account. So the 
charges applied to the account whilst it was open  were applied correctly  and HSBC doesnt 
need to put anything right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6371952