K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms B took out a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2002 at the same time as she
applied for a further advance on her mortgage in one of the banks  branches.  The plan 
included PPI which gave  her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She paid a 
monthly amount  for the cover.  She also selected  life and critical illness  cover. This complaint 
looks solely at the sale of the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as
some of it is here),  Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities   so, on what  I
think is most likely  given  the available evidence and what  we know about how Halifax sold
PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms B says she wasnt  made aware the PPI was optional. She would have declined  PPI if so 
as she need to keep her costs low. I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax 
hasnt got the paperwork  from Ms Bs sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago  
and it doesnt  automatically mean it was mis-sold. Based on what  we know about the banks  
sales process, I think its most likely Ms B completed  a TMPP application  form selecting  
which elements of the cover she wanted, after discussion with the bank.  I say this as Halifax  
has provided samples of the documents it used when selling TMPP at this time.  And I cant 
find enough evidence  to conclude that it didnt follow its standard sales process  for this sale.  
Ms B also took out the PPI two years after her main mortgage, this suggests to me she 
would have known  she had a choice and it wasnt  a condition  of borrowing from the bank.
So, overall, I think its most likely Halifax made  it clear Ms B had a choice about PPI - and
she opted to take it out. Ms B said, in response  to our adjudicator who made the same 
finding, that without more  evidence she considers  this to be bias. But Ive weighed up the 
available evidence from both sides, and as I said earlier,  as its incomplete Ive reached  a 
conclusion based  on what I consider  is most likely given the available evidence  and what  we 
know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. Theres no benefit for me to find in the favour  
of one party over the other - as an independent and impartial  organisation we dont act on 
behalf of either consumer  or banks.
Ms B says Halifax didnt  recommend the PPI to her. The bank has said it did. And I have  
reviewed the sale on that basis as it means the bank had more  obligations to meet during 
the sales process: it means  they had to check if the PPI was right for Ms B. I know  she feels 
Ref: DRN66401542strongly it wasnt due to her financial situation, but I think it seems  to have been suitable 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Ms B told us she was entitled to at 
least three months sick pay from her employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to 
her work benefits for up to 24 months for each successful accident and sickness claim. And 
it also offered redundancy cover for up to 24 months. She had no savings or other 
insurances. Ms B said she had equity in her house but thats  not something she could have 
used to help with monthly mortgage repayments  accessing it would have most likely  
increased her repayments.
Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful if Ms B was sick or lost her job. I have 
considered carefully  her point that she wouldnt have wanted to take on any additional 
monthly cost, but this policy  would have given her a significant monthly benefit for up to 24 
months. As shes said, she had very little financial flexibility - and the PPI protected  her 
against any unforeseen changes in health or employment circumstances. I think  this could 
have been important for Ms B given the consequences of defaulting on a debt secured 
against her home, and her lack of other  means.
Ms B says the PPI wasnt adequately explained and I agree that its possible Halifax  didnt
give Ms B all the information  she needed before deciding to buy PPI. I dont know  that it
pointed out the main  things the policy didnt cover. But Ms B doesnt  appear to have been
affected by any of the main exclusions. I also dont  know when it first made the cost clear,
but the policy was fairly  priced  in the market and offered a competitive benefit level.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the policy wouldve changed her mind about  buying it.
It follows I dont think Ms B has lost out because of any problems with the sale. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund everything Ms B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give  
Ms B back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more. I 
understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms B.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6640154