K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BG) damaged his bathroom during work  
it did under  his Homecare insurance policy. My references to BG include its agents.
background
Mr A claimed under his Homecare policy about  problems  with his bathroom  waste.  BGs  
contracted engineer completed  the work and left Mr As home about 11am. Mr A says there 
were no signs of any breakage or damage  where the engineer  had been working.
However, when Mr A and his family  returned home  at about 8pm he found  that his glass 
shower screen had shattered into tiny pieces covering the bath and floor. Hes provided 
photos of the damage.
Mr A told BG it was responsible for the damage. He said its engineer  was working  only 10cm 
away from the shower screen  and must have unintentionally hit the screen. He thinks there  
must have  been  a delayed reaction and the screen  shattered when a hairline fracture 
progressed through  the glass after the engineer left the premises.
BG denied  responsibility.  It said Mr A was with the engineer during the visit and the shower  
screen was intact  when  the engineer left the property.
Mr A complained to us. He wants BG to pay for the damage to the tiles, bath suite and 
shower screen. He said a glass expert  told him there can be a delay in tempered glass 
shattering hours after impact,  as internet searches  could confirm. He also said he was only 
with the engineer for the initial  stage of the repair.
Our investigator thought there was no evidence that BGs engineer caused any damage.
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He asked for photos he thinks BGs  
engineer should have  taken before and after the repair  to the pipes.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
I need to decide whether it's more likely than not that BGs engineer damaged  the shower 
screen causing it to shatter hours later.
Mr A hasnt sent us a report  from the glass expert he says he spoke with to show the screen 
could shatter hours after an impact. From  my research on the internet it looks  as if tempered 
glass can shatter on delayed reaction but it can also shatter spontaneously. Both events look 
to be unusual.
Mr A believes its most likely that an impact by BGs  engineer was the cause. But when the 
engineer left there was no sign of any cracks or chips in the shower screen.  Theres  no 
evidence to show the engineer caused any damage  to the screen.  I think its more likely than 
Ref: DRN69725862not that if the engineer  caused the problem  there  would have been some  sign of damage to 
the screen when  he left.
BGs engineer didnt  take photos  before  and after the repair  to the pipes,  and BG said he 
didnt need to. Even if he had taken photos  they would have only shown obvious damage to 
the glass and Mr A says there were no signs of damage.
Mr A genuinely believes  the shower screen shattered  due to a delayed reaction to some 
damage caused by BGs engineer. I understand the incident was very worrying for him. But 
theres no evidence  for me to fairly say that its more likely than not that the shower screen 
shattered due to damage by BGs engineer.
BG doesnt need  to take any action.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6972586