K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr B says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  This complaint is 
about a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 2003. Mr B says FICL mis-
sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Bs signed  credit application. On it is a section related to PPI 
where Mr B has signed to say he wanted the policy. If Mr B hadnt wanted the policy 
he couldve left this section blank. On balance I think FICL  made  it clear  that Mr B 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him But it did have  to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him.  
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  
Mr B says he was self-employed at the time of sale.  Ive looked closely at the policy  
terms that likely applied  to Mr Bs sale, and I still think Mr B wouldve been  able to 
make a claim for unemployment had he needed to. And based on what Ive seen  of 
his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  by any other 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would  have been  useful  for him if 
something went wrong. 
Mr B also says he couldve  relied on his partner,  family and friends to help make his 
repayments. He also says he had savings he couldve relied on. But having  the PPI 
meant he wouldnt have to rely on his family  and friends  whose ability  to help would 
depend on their own circumstances at any given time. The policy  also wouldve 
allowed him to use his savings to cover  other  necessary expenses at what couldve 
been a difficult  time financially.  
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. It follows  that I dont  think  Mr B has 
lost out as a result of anything FICL did wrong.
Ref: DRN64322682my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6432268