K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2010. Mr W says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr W paid a monthly amount for the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr W says that Lloyds  sold him a policy he didnt need  or want,  so the first thing I need 
to look at is if Lloyds  gave him a choice in taking  out the policy.  Lloyds has provided a 
copy of Mr Ws loan application  on this I can see that the PPI is presented  as optional 
and has been  selected with a tick. Mr W has then signed  to confirm the selection  this is 
separate to his signature for the loan.  So with this in mind, I think Lloyds made  it clear  
that Mr W didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN62136972Lloyds has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6213697