K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited  is holding  him liable for a number of payments made  on 
his credit card account, even though  he says he didnt make them or allow anyone else to do 
so.
Background
In January 2016 Mr S opened  a credit card account  with MBNA and the card was sent to his 
home address. Around three months  later, Mr S reported the card lost or stolen and a new 
card was sent to him. On 2 May 2016, he phoned  MBNA to activate the new card and to 
request a balance  transfer. Shortly afterwards he used the card to make three bill payments. 
Hes confirmed that the balance transfer  and the bill payments were genuine. He set up a 
monthly direct debit from his bank  account  to make  the monthly credit card payments.
He says he cut up the card, because he didnt  want  to be tempted to use it. But in 
January 2017,  he noticed his monthly direct debit had increased.  After making enquiries he 
found out theyd been transactions  on his card during December and January of £4,908.13. 
He says he didnt  carry out these transactions,  or consent to anyone else using his card.
MBNA investigated and said it couldnt  conclude the transactions  were  made  without Mr Ss 
full knowledge  or consent. It said this because:
 The original  credit  card  which Mr S said hed destroyed  - was used to make  the 
transactions.
 Several phone calls were made to MBNA from the mobile number Mr S supplied  when 
he opened the account. The person calling was able to answer all the security 
questions correctly.
 The transactions dont follow the pattern of a typical  fraudster. MBNA would have 
expected a third party to attempt  to use the card to its maximum until it stopped 
working.
Because MBNA would  not refund the payments, Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt  think  the complaint should  be upheld,  concluding  that it was unlikely  the 
transactions had been carried out by a fraudster.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators conclusion. He said, in summary, that the investigator  
had defended the bank  without any evidence and that hed never missed a payment or 
suffered from any fraudulent activities until he opened  an account with MBNA.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Ref: DRN64694372In considering Mr Ss testimony, Ive taken  into account that it was a particularly difficult time 
for Mr S personally, and its not surprising that he may not have been able to remember  the 
detail of certain calls or exactly when  things happened.
The original  card that was sent to Mr S when  he opened the account, was reported  lost or 
stolen by him and a new card was issued. Mr S received this card and used it to make a 
balance transfer  and to pay three bills. He says he then cut the card up because he didnt 
want to be tempted to use it. But MBNA has been able to evidence that this same card was 
used to carry out the transactions which Mr S disputes. So I think Mr S is mistaken   I think 
its likely  he cut up the first card, but kept the second one. During its investigation,  he did tell 
MBNA that he thought he probably kept the card in a drawer.  And I think  this most  likely 
what he did.
The first three transactions in December were  declined  because the wrong  PIN was used. 
MBNA then received a phone call asking for a PIN reminder. Ive listened to this call and 
I conclude that it was made by Mr S. I say this because the call was made  from the same  
mobile number that Mr S gave on the card application form; the voice  sounds the same as 
that heard  during the fraud investigation calls with Mr S; and the caller was able to answer 
the banks security questions without any hesitation.
Several transactions  were  then carried out using  the genuine card and PIN. On 20 January 
2017, these were flagged by the banks fraud team because  there  were  a number of 
transaction in a short space of time and this was unusual for Mr Ss account. So MBNA 
blocked the card. 
MBNA received three calls on 23 January from an unknown number asking for the card to be 
unblocked. But the caller couldnt  answer  all of the banks  security questions. I think its quite 
clear  from the tone of voice and the failure  to answer the security  questions correctly - that 
these calls werent made by Mr S. Its not clear  who this third party  was, how hed got hold of 
Mr Ss account details or whether  Mr S knew him and had asked  him to phone. But MBNA 
followed its security procedures  and the card remained blocked.
Later the same day MBNA received another call from Mr Ss mobile number asking  for the 
card to be unblocked. This caller was able to answer the security questions. And the voice  
sounds the same as the individual who later reported the transactions as fraudulent.  So 
I think this call was made  by Mr S.
Mr S says his mobile phone had been compromised. He says a number of people  had 
difficulty when they tried to phone  him and he didnt  receive text messages. But he hasnt 
provided evidence  to support this. He told MBNA in January 2017 that hed had to get a new 
phone. But when he brought his complaint to this service   seven months later - he gave us 
his original mobile phone number. And Ive listened  to all the calls made from that number to 
MBNA and the caller  sounds the same as the individual who reported the transactions as 
fraudulent.
So on the basis of all the evidence, I think it most likely that Mr S carried  out the transactions  
on the account, or authorised an unknown  third party to do so. It follows  that I dont  find it 
would be fair to require  MBNA to refund the card payments.
Ref: DRN64694373My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6469437