K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus kept 
money that was paid into her Cashplus bank account for her rent. She says this caused her 
financial hardship and she faced the prospect of eviction  because of it. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Cashplus disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Os complaint  should be upheld,  but that I 
intended to award  different compensation. A copy of the background to the complaint and 
my provisional findings are attached  and form part of this final decision. 
Cashplus and Miss O received my provisional decision. And no one had anything  to add 
after theyd seen it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cashplus and Miss O didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision.  So 
Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached  before, for the same  reasons.
putting things right  what Cashplus needs to do
Pay miss O £300. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Os complaint.
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2020
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68121252excerpt from my provisional decision
This complaint is about  one payday loan Cashplus  provided to Miss O on 14 October 2018.  The 
repayment was due on 14 November 2018. Miss O didnt have  the funds to repay  the loan balance at 
this time.  I understand the loan repayment, plus the interest  of £144,  were  taken from Miss Os 
Cashplus bank account. This left it with a negative balance of £749.  
On 21 November  2018  the Department for Work  and Pensions  (DWP) made a payment of £592.64 
into Miss Os account. Cashplus  used this to reduce the negative balance  on the account and 
reduced to £171. 
Miss O asked Cashplus  to release this money. Cashplus asked for evidence that this was a housing  
benefit payment but it says that this wasnt  received. So it didnt allow  Miss O to access  this money. 
At this point Miss O was unable to repay her rent. She has provided a copy  of her communications 
with her landlord that show she issues with her rent arrears was resolved  in time.  She essentially paid 
the missed rent over the coming months. 
Miss O has provided  a copy of the email correspondence she has had with her council in October  
2018. They were providing her housing benefit.  These show that:
it regularly paid Miss O housing benefit; 
Cashplus hadnt responded to the councils attempts to communicate  with it;
it provided a specimen  First Rights of Appropriation  letter to Miss O so she could complete  
some details such dates of payment. 
Miss O has provided  a copy of the final First  Rights of Appropriation  letter to Cashplus  dated  8 
November 2018. This is from the DWP  and it says the £592.64 payment is for her rent. And that she 
would withdraw the money on 21 November 2018  to use it for this purpose. 
Cashplus has been provided all of these  communications.  But it has essentially said that it wont  
accept the letter from the DWP as it was not a paper document. It was provided by email.  It said it 
would have expected a posted letter from the DWP rather than an email copy. Because of this it said 
that there was a high likelihood that this letter was not legitimate.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He was persuaded that the letter was legitimate and that 
Cashplus shouldve released the funds to Miss O and it should not do so. He also thought  that she 
should receive  £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience that Cashpluss  refusal  to 
release the money  caused  her. 
Cashplus disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  It maintained  that the letter  was unlikely to be 
legitimate and it thought that the trouble and upset  compensation was too high. So as no agreement  
has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on 
our website. 
Cashplus says that the letter of appropriation that Miss G provided may not have been genuine. It 
does say that this is likely  to be the case as it was provided by email.  
Clearly there is an opportunity for anyone to provide falsified documentation  both by email or written 
letter. I dont think its more likely that either method of communication would  lead to this. And Im sure 
Ref: DRN68121253Cashplus itself, as do most  people  and organisations,  corresponds by email on a regular  basis.  So its 
not a reasonable starting point that this form of communication is evidence that a person  is trying to 
provide correspondence  that is not legitimate. So I dont  agree that Cashplus  shouldnt have 
released Miss Os rent money because of this. 
Miss O has provided  evidence that shows she arranged to have the letter of appropriation provided 
and why this was. There is correspondence that shows her housing benefit provider assisted with this. 
And it concerns a regular payment of housing benefit into her account. In my view there is enough 
evidence to show that this letter is genuine. And I think that it was. 
And even  if Cashplus had reason to think that the letter wasnt genuine, then it shouldve taken  steps 
to properly look into this. As far as I can see it didnt do this. In fact it seem to have avoided engaging  
with Miss Os benefits  provider when it had the opportunity to do this. So I think  Cashplus shouldve 
released the funds to Miss O at the time. 
But I dont think its right that Miss O is paid this money now. Whilst  I can see that this caused her 
problems at the time if Cashplus were to release the money  now it would affectively  be starting a new 
backdated loan. And Miss O may have problems  repaying this. So I dont think  it would be right to 
leave Miss O in a potentially problematic situation. 
But its clear  that this caused Miss O some  trouble and upset. She needed to go to her landlord  to find 
alternative means of paying  her rent. And she risked eviction if she didnt do this. This couldve been 
avoided is Cashplus had acted correctly. Miss O has said this was a very stressful situation for her 
and Im persuaded that it was. Overall  I dont think £150  is enough compensation  for this and I intend 
to require  Cashplus to pay Miss O £300. 
Ref: DRN6812125