K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about a payday loan Uncle Buck provided to Mrs S in early March  2014. 
The loan was for £200 and Mrs S repaid £270  at the end of March 2014. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and thought  that this loan shouldnt  have been given 
to Mrs S as the repayment cost was a significant portion of her income.  Uncle Buck  
disagreed and said the checks  it had done  showed  that Mrs S had enough disposable 
income to repay the loan and Mrs S had repaid her loan on time. 
As an informal resolution couldnt  be reached, the case was passed  me for a final decision. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. In the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of 
time during  which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could  sustainably repay  her loan  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN69477582Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time, while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint. Having  done this, Im upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Uncle Buck  says it carried out adequate  checks on Mrs S when she applied  for her loan. 
This included verifying her employment and income.  It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal  anything of concern. This was Mrs Ss first loan with Uncle Buck,  and I 
can see that the checks detailed above  were carried out. However, I think  if Uncle Buck had 
properly considered Mrs Ss financial situation  and the lending,  I think it would have seen 
that Mrs S was not able to take on this borrowing. 
I say this because  Mrs S was borrowing £200,  which was due to be repaid in one payment 
plus interest. This meant  that Mrs S would be repaying around £270  from her monthly 
income of £1074. The repayment represented  a significant proportion of Mrs Ss income  
and I think Uncle Buck ought  to have realised this and the potential for Mrs S to struggle to 
make the repayment.  Given Mrs Ss income  and borrowing, it seems  there  was a significant 
chance of Mrs S having to borrow again to meet  her commitment under  this loan. 
I dont agree with Uncle Bucks conclusion that the fact Mrs S owned  property which might 
have had some equity in meant she was in the position to afford  the loan. In my view,  this is 
rather a simplistic  approach which isnt based  on any real evidence. Ultimately  Uncle  Buck 
was under a duty to ensure the lending could be sustainably repaid and in Mrs Ss case I 
dont think it was. And I think this wouldve been  clear to Uncle Buck  at the outset  when it 
gathered information  from Mrs S.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs S paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mrs Ss credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Ss complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Ref: DRN69477583Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6947758