K820x#14complaint
Mr O and Short Trustee Limited  (the policyholders), say a claim they made on their landlord 
legal expenses insurance and rent guarantee policy was unreasonably declined by Ageas 
Insurance Limited.
References to Ageas  include  acts or omissions by agents acting  on its behalf. 
background
The policyholders had a tenancy  agreement with two individuals who rented their property.
In August  2018  the policyholders had cause to make a claim on the rent guarantee element 
of their landlord insurance. Their tenants had fallen behind with the rent.
Ageas rejected the claim.  It said there  were  material breaches of the policy conditions at 
inception. It said if it had been aware of these when the insurance was being  put in place it 
wouldnt have offered the cover.
The policyholders provided arguments  against each of the points raised, but Ageas didnt 
change its position.  The policyholders brought their complaint to our Service.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. The policyholders disagreed and so their complaint 
has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding the policyholders  complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
The investigator provided two detailed views about why she thought Ageas had acted 
reasonably in rejecting the policyholders  claim. Having  considered  all the information on file, 
I see little reason to depart from her main findings  and conclusions.
The policyholders think the pass certificate  given by the referencing agency shouldve  been 
enough in terms  of satisfying the due diligence required  for taking on tenants. I can 
understand the point made  here, its not unreasonable to expect  this sort of service  to be 
expert and thorough.
However, its important to consider the terms and conditions of the insurance. The following 
excerpts from the key facts policy summary are important (bolding is my emphasis): 
For this policy to be valid all Tenants in the Let Property have to be FULLY  referenced 
and passed the relevant checks (see below)  in order  to establish they are able to meet the 
tenancy terms, this includes a report by a Licensed  Tenant Reference Company along with 
written references
Tenancy Checklist:
-Copies of two forms of identification, including one which contains a photograph.
-A recent utility  bill or Bank statement.
Ref: DRN60356122-Recent Credit  Check  within  45 days of the Tenancy Agreement and within 12 months 
prior to the commencement of the policy.
-The Credit  Check must be clear of CCJs (last 3 years and none outstanding), show no 
previous bankruptcies  and demonstrates  the tenant  or guarantors  ability  to meet  their 
rent commitments.
-Satisfactory reference from the tenants  employer and the last landlord  or from one other  
referee if either is unavailable.
-All documentation  received must show that the tenant is able to meet  the requirements 
of the tenancy agreement.
I think this makes it clear what would be required by Ageas to ensure cover  was valid.  This 
included a report from a licenced  tenant referencing agency, as was supplied  here. But it 
was also necessary for specified checks to have  been made and passed. This didnt happen 
as the policyholders  acknowledge.
I can see there were problems with the employment  and landlord references  supplied. The 
policyholders didnt think the missing  information  was material. For example, they felt checks 
showing one of the tenants  met the affordability  criteria meant  an employment reference for 
the second tenant wasnt necessary.
I follow the policyholders train of thought. But its a commercial decision  for Ageas to 
determine what risks its willing to take on and the premiums it will charge for this. The 
requirements it set out enable it to manage  these  things effectively and then to offer cover.  
Theres nothing unusual  here.
As the policyholders acknowledge,  the tenants  were jointly and severally liable, including for 
paying the rent. So, I think the importance  of having complete information  is clear.
I note the policy set out alternative sources of assurance that would be acceptable where  it 
wasnt possible to secure the information  in the tenant checklist. But this avenue  doesnt 
appear to have been explored.
I can also see that if there were any doubts about  the tenant background checks  these 
shouldve been  raised with Ageas prior to letting the property. The key facts policy summary 
says:
Please note: If any doubts as to the integrity  or financial standing of the tenant  are 
expressed in any tenant reference or other documentation or there is a lack of response to 
any enquiry, you must obtain our approval prior to commencement of the letting.
In its final response to the policyholders on 2 January 2019, Ageas said the beaches  to its 
policy conditions wouldve had a material effect  on the risk it was exposed to. Had it known 
about these it wouldnt have accepted the tenancy  on cover. It also said it was willing to void 
the policy from inception,  with a full refund of the premium. I think this is fair.
It wouldnt be reasonable for me to require Ageas to meet the policyholders claim in the 
circumstances of this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN60356123Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Short  
Trustee Limited to accept  or reject  my decision before 16 November 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6035612