K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the service  theyve received from Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) and their agents. 
background
Mr and Mrs H hold a home insurance  policy with Aviva  and submitted  a claim in September 
2018 after suffering an escape  of water in their home. Aviva indemnified the claim and 
appointed contractors to carry out repair works  on Mr and Mrs Hs bathroom, during which  
time they were placed in alternative accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs H became  dissatisfied with various  elements of the service theyve received from 
Aviva and their agents. In summary this includes, but is not strictly limited  to:
Delays with the completion of the repair works, meaning they had to spend three 
months in alternative accommodation;
Poor communication from the contractors;
Having to chase/call the contractors  on numerous occasions to find out what was 
happening;
Issues with the quality  of the workmanship upon moving back  into the property in 
January 2019.
Aviva upheld Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. They conceded that communication had been  poor,  
and that there were  avoidable delays caused  during the works.  As a result, they offered  a 
total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs H 
declined to accept  this offer, however, as they did not feel it was commensurate to the 
experience theyd had throughout the claim,  so they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he considered that the compensation offered  
by Aviva was fair in the circumstances.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed, so the matter has been 
passed to me to determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it, as I also consider the compensation offered to be fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H submit that Aviva and their agents have caused a significant level of distress 
and inconvenience.  I dont feel it necessary for the purposes of my decision to list or set out 
in detail everything that has happened since Mr and Mrs H submitted their claim. But I would 
like to assure them that I have carefully considered everything theyve told us, in order  to 
reach an outcome  that is fair and reasonable.
Aviva have offered  a total of £400 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused, but Mr and Mrs H do not feel this is commensurate to the experience 
theyve had with their claim. The power to make  such an award  is provided  for in DISP  Rule 
3.7.2 of the Financial  Conduct Authority Handbook, which  sets out that I can award  fair 
compensation for distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer.  But such an award 
must be a proportionate reflection of the impact  that a businesss actions (or inactions) have 
had. 
Ref: DRN68358502Ive considered the service Mr and Mrs H received  after submitting their claim, and its clear  
theyve been left severely frustrated by the actions of Aviva  and their agents. I can see, for 
example, that there have been  avoidable  delays in the progress of their claim, meaning 
theyve had to spend longer in alternative accommodation than they originally anticipated. 
And I can also see that communication has, at times, been poor as Mr and Mrs H were often 
unaware of what was happening and when. They were also given regular assurances that 
work would be completed only to find that it hadnt been. 
But I have to consider  whether, in the circumstances, the compensation awarded so far is 
proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered. And in order to award further  
compensation to Mr and Mrs H, I would have  to be satisfied that the wrongful  actions  of 
Aviva and their agents have had a greater impact  than just moderate  inconvenience or 
upset, which  I cant say it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  frustrating, but a certain element of disruption  and 
inconvenience is often  to be expected while restorative works are being undertaken to a 
property. So I dont  consider the actions of Aviva  to warrant  any further compensation at a 
higher level. But for the times  when their service did fall below standard,  I consider the £400 
offered to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
my final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited have made an offer to pay £400. I conclude  that such  an offer is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs H (if 
they have not done  so already) within 28 days of receiving their acceptance of this decision.
Mr and Mrs H should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding on all 
parties and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter  for 
additional compensation. If, however,  they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll be purely a matter  between Mr and Mrs H and Aviva as to whether the 
£400 offer still remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been  communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6835850