K820x#14Complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the increases in premiums  on her home  (building and contents)
insurance with Allianz Insurance Plc. Mrs Ls son, Mr L, has brought  the complaint on her
behalf.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  given me any new information  for me to consider. Because of this I see
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
My final decision
I think Allianz Insurance Plcs offer to refund some  of the costs  of Mrs Ls policy is fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Copy of provisional  decision
Mrs L is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home (building and contents)
insurance with Allianz Insurance Plc. Mrs Ls son, Mr L, has brought the complaint  on her
behalf.
Background
Mrs Ls buildings and contents  insurance  policies started with Allianz in 1998.  The first
combined premiums  charged in 1998 totalled £193.97 for the year (made up of £128.77 for
the building insurance, and £65.20 for the contents insurance). This increased every year up
to 2016 when  the total combined premiums charged were £839.76  (made up of £608.94 for
the buildings insurance and £230.82 for the contents  insurance).
Ref: DRN61240912Mrs L didnt realise how much the premium had increased until 2017 when she and Mr L
reviewed her renewal  letter.  Mr L says his father,  Mrs Ls husband, was previously
responsible for handling the insurance  policies.  He passed away in 2003 and Mrs L
assumed she was getting  a good price. Mrs Ls son feels  Allianz  has taken advantage of his
mother as an elderly widow and that its been  overcharging  her for over ten years.
Mrs L didnt renew her home insurance  in 2017. And Mr L says they were able to get much
cheaper home insurance quotes from other businesses.
Allianz said it had mistakenly added legal protection and home emergency cover to her
home insurance, so it would refund £610.90  to Mrs L. It also offered to pay £50
compensation for inconvenience.  But Allianz says the renewal premiums are correct, and
that it had sent renewal  information each year to Mrs L.
Our adjudicator thought Allianz  should refund Mrs L some of her premiums  from 2006
onwards for the buildings insurance,  and refund some of her premiums from 2004 for the
contents policy. Allianz disagreed  with this. Allianz has since offered to pay Mrs L £250 to
resolve the case. Mrs L is not happy to accept  this offer.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance should have cost. I would  be, in
effect determining or telling  a business how it should operate  and thats  not my role. But I
can look at whether Allianz has treated  Mrs L fairly  throughout the period she held her
insurance policies. If I find that Allianz hasnt treated Mrs L fairly, I will look to see what
compensation would be fair and, in this case, whether  I think Allianzs offer is fair. Based on
what Ive seen  so far I currently think Allianzs  offer is fair. Ill explain why.
In 1998, Mrs Ls home insurance cost £193.97 (combined) for the year.  Over the years Mrs L
had the insurance she made a number of claims   and according to Allianzs records these
totalled around £25,000. The first claim was made around July 1999 and the last claim
around January  2009. I think some  of the price  increases will be down to these  claims. Often
when someone makes  a claim, that will increase their risk of claiming again, so the cost of
insurance at renewals goes up. In Mrs Ls case, I think some price  increases,  until at least
renewal in 2010, were due to the claims.
Another likely reason  for the increase in premiums was an amendment  to the cover
requested in 2009. Allianz has sent a screen shot showing Mrs L called in October  2009  to
increase her buildings cover. With the increase in cover, I think she wouldve  known  this
would likely mean  an increase in her premiums.  There wouldve been some discussion of
the new price  and shed have to agree to it for the amendment to happen. So I think  she
wouldve been  aware of what she was paying for her home insurance at this point. And it
was reasonable for Allianz to think she was happy with the price, as she didnt query  it at
that time.
While the premiums did increase significantly between 1998 when the policies started and
renewal in 2010, it seems this was mostly because of changes in Allianzs view of the risk it
was taking  by insuring Mrs Ls property and amendments to the cover it was providing.
I can see that Mrs Ls premiums continued to increase each year and I cant see clear
evidence she engaged with Allianz about her premiums  again until 2017. Mr L says his
mother was overcharged by Allianz and they didnt realise  until they received the 2017
renewal letter. She didnt  renew her home insurance in 2017.
Looking at all the evidence I think Allianz  should have realised by around 2013 that Mrs L
Ref: DRN61240913wasnt the type of person who engaged with the cost of her insurance regularly  it hadnt
heard from her for around four years. If it increased  the price from then on just because of
this, this wouldnt be fair.
I would find it reasonable for Allianz to keep Mrs Ls premium after 2013  at the same amount
she was charged  in 2013,  and refund any increase from this point (adding  in interest for the
time shed been out of pocket). Allianz has made an offer of £250 to put things right - which
is around what I wouldve recommended here. So I think this is fair.
Mr L says his mother was taken advantage of and is owed a lot more than this in
compensation. Mr L points to the much lower premium  quotes he was able to obtain in 2017
when they switched insurer. New business premiums often have discounts built into them -
to effectively attract customers. As this was a new policy being quoted in 2017, Mrs L
probably received a discount  on the premium cost.  So it wouldnt be fair to say that just
because Mrs L was able to get a new, cheaper policy, Allianz should  have been charging her
a similar  cost for policies shed had for nearly 20 years. I wouldnt expect an insurer to keep
applying a new business discount throughout the life of a policy.
Having considered  Allianzs offer, I currently think its fair. It makes sure Mrs L hasnt lost out
if Allianz did increase the price just because she didnt engage at each renewal.
Ref: DRN6124091