K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in 1995. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened over 23 years  ago when the 
application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
Mr M has said he didnt know he was taking  out PPI. However Ive seen an example of 
the loan document likely to have been used,  and I think  it likely the cost of the PPI was 
included on that form. And I dont  have any clear supporting evidence that PPI was 
added without Mr Ms consent. 
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr M, as being particularly suited to his 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr M to decide  whether it was suitable.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mr M took the PPI. Mr Ms representatives  have said that, relevant to this, is whether the 
policy was affordable for Mr M. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest the PPI wasnt 
affordable. And, as Ive said, I think it likely the cost of the monthly premium at least was 
included on the loan form. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr M would have  been affected by any of these. Its likely he was eligible 
Ref: DRN69202642for the policy, and hed be paying for it monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without  
further cost if his situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6920264