K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says she was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  when she took out 
a credit card in 2008. She was sold the policy on-line by Egg, but Barclays Bank  UK PLC is 
now responsible  for these  sales. 
Ill therefore refer to Barclays for consistency.  
background
Mrs F has already been paid some money for the commission  Barclays received from selling 
her the PPI. But I issued  a provisional  decision (summary  attached) in December 2018, 
setting out why I thought the complaint about  the actual mis-sale of  the policy  shouldnt  be 
upheld.  And  I asked both parties to provide any further submissions or information  about 
that within one month.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  has any new information or 
arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint about the mis-sale. And I dont require  Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay any more compensation. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  paid to Mrs F the commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66645042summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs F says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy when  she took out a credit 
card in 2008. She was sold the policy on-line by Egg, but Barclays Bank UK PLC is now responsible  
for these sales. 
background
Mrs F has already  been  paid some money for the commission Barclays received from selling her the 
PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked at this case  said the complaint about the PPI being mis-
sold in the first place should also be upheld. 
Barclays disagreed  it had mis-sold  the PPI, and so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs F, but I dont currently intend to uphold the complaint 
about the mis-sale. 
Weve seen  quite a few similar sales to this and as a consequence, we have  a good understanding of 
the procedures that were normally used. We know, for example,  that consumers like Mrs F would  
have had to either agree  to, or decline, the PPI when  they were making their way through  the on-line 
form before being allowed to finish their application. 
We no longer have access to Mrs Fs actual form, but thats not unusual  given the type of application 
and when it took place,  but Barclays sent us an example of the type of web-based application  form 
Mrs F would have used when she was applying  for her card. And because we now know PPI was 
added to her account,  I think its highly  likely she selected the yes option.
As well as this, Barclays  says Mrs F would have been sent a credit agreement which confirmed shed 
selected the PPI. It showed  me the copy  with her electronic signature on it. 
Finally, in my experience, I think Mrs Fs monthly credit card statements would  have shown that she 
was being regularly charged for the PPI. I think shed have noticed these charges and wanted to know 
what they were  for, if she hadnt ever asked  for the PPI.
Being an internet sale, I think its reasonable  to say that Mrs F would have worked through the 
application in her own time,  without any advice from Barclays. So it wasnt an advised sale and it 
was for Mrs F to decide for herself whether or not she wanted PPI. Barclays duty was to provide clear 
enough information for her to make an informed choice.
Our adjudicator thought a medical issue Mrs F had might not be claimable under the policy rules. I 
think that could be right, but Im afraid I dont agree that this is an issue for which we should  uphold 
her complaint. I certainly dont want to suggest the condition wouldnt  have been important to Mrs F, 
but there is very little evidence  that says she would have ever envisaged claiming for it on this 
particular PPI policy.  
Ref: DRN66645043From what we were  told, her medical  condition was under control and I note the policy only supported 
claims where the illness or disability required the consumer to be off work for 30 days. Im afraid  I 
dont think this medical condition would have fallen into that category. So it isnt something Id uphold 
the complaint on.
In considering all other aspects of the case, I think Mrs F was eligible for the cover which, at 79p per 
£100 of the outstanding credit card balance, appears to have been an affordable charge. Mrs F didnt 
have any sick pay with her job and would  have therefore only been able to access the minimum 
statutory state support.  She didnt have any other means either.
The PPI, on the other hand, would have covered  unemployment, as well as other forms of disability or 
sickness and it could have  reduced her credit  card balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the 
event of a successful claim. I therefore currently think the policy was of use to Mrs F. I think thats 
probably why she bought it.
Our adjudicator didnt think everything was clear on her application  form. I accept Barclays could have 
probably done  more to spell out some  of the rules  and exclusions, but I also think a lot of information  
was provided. Mrs F would have been able to access a menu of the policy rules  via a link on the 
screen. And I notice that the price  of the cover was directly  next to where she was asked to make her 
choice about the PPI.
So even if I accept Barclays could have been clearer in certain aspects, I dont think  Mrs F would 
have done anything differently. I think she would have still bought the cover. I think the evidence quite 
strongly shows she wanted some protection and I dont think the medical issue mentioned  by her 
would have changed her overall desire to have it. 
 
This means  I dont currently think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs F. Its already 
paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to her because when  the policy was sold it expected to get a 
high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium). It should have told 
Mrs F about that. Because it didnt, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium.   I think that offer is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold. So Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F. 
Barclays Bank Plc has paid to Mrs F the commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium. 
I now invite  both parties to send in any further information they have by 14 January 2019.
Ref: DRN6664504