K821x#15complaint
Ms Bs complaint concerns the sale of two Forester Life Limited with-profits endowment 
policies in 1993. 
Ms B didnt start a mortgage  until 1995  so the endowment policies were forward  sales and 
she says she wouldnt have taken  a risk with her mortgage repayment.  Shes  also 
questioned the appropriateness of having two policies, rather than just one.
background
Ms B was sold two Forester Life endowment policies in June 1993. Ms B was identified as 
needing a policy for £50,000, but this had to be split into two policies as she wanted to take 
total and permanent disability cover which was only available for cover  up to £30,000.  So 
one policy  was set up for £30,000 which included total and permanent  disability cover,  and a 
second policy of £20,000 was set up without. Forester Life says Ms B wasnt disadvantaged 
at the time due to the need for split policies as it waived the policy fees on the second one. 
Both policies  had 30 year terms  and are invested in with-profits  funds.
In January 1995 Ms B took out a £52,000  interest-only mortgage with a 29 year term. As 
Ms B only had £50,000 of endowment cover she took a new £2,000  policy with another 
provider. When Forester Life carried out a review of its policies in 1996 and discovered Ms B 
had taken a third policy elsewhere it refunded  the fees for her first policy  back  to inception, 
and waived them going forward.
Over the years Ms B made lump sum payments to her mortgage and she repaid it in full in 
April 2005.
In 2018 Ms B complained  about her policies  as no bonuses had been paid on them  for 
nearly ten years, and so the value wasnt increasing.  She said the policies had been  
mis-sold.
Forester Life admitted  it shouldnt have sold the policies  before a mortgage was taken out, 
but it didnt think  the policies  were  unsuitable in terms of risk from that point on. It offered to 
refund the premiums  from inception until the mortgage started (plus interest).
The complaint was looked at by two different adjudicators. The second adjudicator  (whose 
assessment superseded the original  adjudicators) said Forester  Life should carry out a full 
loss calculation - known as RU89 - comparing  Ms Bs endowment mortgage to a 
hypothetical repayment mortgage  as well as the refund of the premiums before  the mortgage  
started. Forester Life didnt agree and so its been  passed to me to decide.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint and to make an award  against  Forester  Life.  Ive 
reached this conclusion because:
Forester  Life provided regulated financial advice,  which means  that it was required to 
recommend only suitable  products to its customers  in this case Ms B.  Forester Life 
Ref: DRN61351732recommended that Ms B take out two endowment  policies invested in its with-profits  fund 
to repay  a future  mortgage  which, at the time, would generally have been considered to 
represent a low investment risk  but would  not have been  suitable for someone 
unwilling to take any risk with the repayment of their mortgage.  
Ms B was 24 years old, and worked  as a chemist earning £16,000. She was single with 
no dependents and lived in rented accommodation. She had a whole of life policy with 
Forester Life that had been set up by her father when she was about a year old. Ms B 
wished to purchase a home in about  five years or so, and anticipated needing a mortgage  
of around £50,000. She was sold two endowment policies with 30 year terms.  
I think Ms B would  have thought  in 1993 that she would find it difficult  to cope with a 
shortfall should one arise on maturity.  In particular, I note that by the time the policies 
were due to mature Ms B would be 54, so relatively close  to what  shed have anticipated 
as her likely retirement date.  As such, I think it is unlikely she would knowingly have 
taken the risk that this might happen.
Although it is clear  that Ms B was considering purchasing a property in the future, I find 
that its unlikely  the adviser  would have been  in a position  to accurately predict  either her 
circumstances or willingness to accept risk in the future.  As such, it wouldnt have been 
possible for the adviser to provide a recommendation  which would be appropriate for 
Ms Bs as yet unknown  circumstances.
If Ms B had read carefully all of the documentation she was provided with at the point of 
sale, she might have identified the risks posed  by the policies.   However, I consider it 
more likely  than not that any documentation  she may have seen would have played a 
secondary role in the sales process and it is unlikely  Ms B would have  identified  the risk 
herself, particularly  if the adviser did not mention it.
Of course,  I cant  know for certain  what Ms B understood at the time of sale, or what the 
adviser told her about the risks associated with these policies and I do take account of 
Forester Lifes submissions. But I find Ms Bs recollections plausible and persuasive and I 
dont think that she understood  the potential implications for her future mortgage repayment.  
In summary,  having considered Ms Bs submissions and her circumstances against  Forester  
Lifes submissions and its records from around the time of sale,  Im not persuaded that the 
policies recommended by Forester Life were a suitable recommendation for Ms B.
The endowment policies are contracts between Ms B and Forester Life and these only 
guarantee to pay out the basic sum assured (that is £9,900 and £6,600 respectively) plus 
any bonuses at maturity.  So I cant require Forester Life to make up any shortfalls there may 
be when the policies mature. There are also no guarantees  included in the contracts that 
bonuses will be added each year, or that terminal bonuses will be paid. So again I cant  
require Forester Life to pay any missed bonuses  now or in the future.
The industry regulator laid down a standard approach  for calculating compensation in cases 
such as this in its guidance  Handling Mortgage Endowment Complaints". The guidance  can 
be found in the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook at DISP Appendix 1.2 which  is 
available on its website  at www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/1/2.html .
In effect the guidance provides that Ms B is entitled  to be put in the position  she would have 
been in, so far as is possible, had Forester  Life not recommended these unsuitable policies.  
Ref: DRN61351733In other  words, in the position she would  have been  in if she had taken out a repayment 
mortgage in 1995.  Im satisfied that compensation calculated in accordance with this 
guidance is the appropriate  redress to award in this case. I understand Ms B is concerned 
that shes been disadvantaged by having two policies rather than one, but that point is now 
moot as Ive found she shouldnt have been  sold any policies. 
As the term of the policies started  before the mortgage its unrealistic to assume the 
hypothetical repayment mortgage  used  in the calculation started  at the same time as the 
policies (because  Ms B didnt take a mortgage  at that point). Instead its reasonable to 
assume that Ms B would  have taken out a repayment mortgage  on the same date she took 
the interest-only mortgage (that is, 12 January 1995)  with the original 30 year term. So in 
the calculation,  Forester Life should  use the original 30 year term for the term of the 
hypothetical repayment mortgage.
Ms B made lump sum payments that led to her repaying her mortgage in 2005.  By then 
shed received red warning letters telling her there was a high risk the policies wouldnt pay 
out enough to repay  her mortgage. This meant Ms B kept the policies  despite  being aware 
there was an element  of risk in doing  so, so the calculation will be capped at the point she no 
longer needed the policies for her mortgage  (which  was, I understand, 13 April 2005).
The calculation should take account of the premiums Ms B paid to the endowment  policies 
prior to her mortgage commencing (plus interest) and the lump sum payments made.
fair compensation
I order Forester Life Limited  to pay Ms B compensation calculated  as D minus E where:
A.a refund of the premiums paid from the date the policies started (13 June 1993) to the 
date that the mortgage started  (12 January 1995);
B.interest  on the premiums paid before the mortgage started from the date of payment to 
the date the policies were  no longer used for mortgage  purposes (13 April 2005);
C.the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in accordance  with the standard 
RU89 guidance using  a nil surrender  value  and, for the hypothetical  repayment  
mortgage, a mortgage  term equal to the original term of the endowments, up to 
13 April 2005;
D.= A+B+C;
E.the surrender  value  of the policies  at 13 April 2005.
When undertaking part C of the calculation, Forester Life should apply the lump sum 
payments Ms B made to both the endowment  and repayment sides of the RU89 calculation. 
This is because we take the view it was generally seen as sensible  to pay lump  sums to a 
mortgage account if you were able to do so, and Im satisfied its likely Ms B would still have 
opted to make those  payments even if she had held a repayment  mortgage.
If the lump sum payments  would  have would have fully repaid (or been  more than sufficient 
to repay) the hypothetical  repayment  mortgage then Forester Life should follow the guidance 
on how to take that into account in the calculation from case  study  6 on our website at 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/guidance/mtge_endowment_redress_cs.htm
Ref: DRN61351734That will need adapting,  so the above mentioned  calculation at C will have a sub-calculation 
that Ill re-letter starting from M (rather than A) for clarity. So the above  calculation at C which 
Ive described as the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in accordance with the 
standard RU89 guidance using a nil surrender  value  and, for the hypothetical repayment 
mortgage, a mortgage term equal to the original term of the endowments, up to 13 April 
2005 will have a sub-calculation of
M.   the loss identified by carrying out a costs  comparison (between the costs of a 
hypothetical repayment  mortgage and the costs of Ms Bs actual interest-only mortgage 
and endowment policies over a 30 year term) to the date that Ms B made the lump sum 
payment that would have  been  sufficient  to repay  the hypothetical  repayment  mortgage, 
together with interest  on that amount from the date of the lump sum payment, to the 
date the policies were no longer used for mortgage  purposes (13 April 2005 );
N.   the outstanding  balance  of Ms B's interest-only mortgage following that lump sum 
payment (without interest);
O.   the surplus lump  sum that would have remained available to Ms B after repaying the 
hypothetical repayment  mortgage, together with interest on that amount from the date of 
payment to 13 April 2005;
P.   the payments that Ms B made  to the interest-only mortgage since the date that the 
hypothetical repayment  mortgage would  have been repaid, together  with interest on 
each payment made  from the date of payment to 13 April 2005;
Q.   the premiums that Ms B paid to the policies since the date that the hypothetical 
repayment mortgage  would have been repaid until 13 April 2005, together  with interest 
on each premium from the date of payment  to 13 April 2005;
R.   M+N+O+P+Q
S.a nil surrender value
So C in the original calculation would be calculated as R minus  S here,  if (and only if) the 
hypothetical repayment mortgage  would  have been  repaid  sooner  than Ms Bs actual 
endowment mortgage  due to the lump  sum payments  she made.
 
The calculation should, so far as is possible,  take into account Ms Bs individual 
circumstances and the interest rates,  fees and charges  levied by her mortgage lender(s) 
throughout the term of the loan.
If a loss is identified  in the calculation then interest  should  be added to that sum from 
13 April 2005 until the date the redress is paid.  Interest is calculated  at 8% simple  per year.
If Forester Life considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Ms B how much its taken off. It should also give Ms B a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
final decision
Ref: DRN61351735I uphold the complaint made by Ms B and order Forester Life Limited  to pay compensation 
as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6135173