K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that Abbey Life Assurance  Company Limited (Abbey) has not abided  by an award 
made by an ombudsman scheme  in 1999  or an agreement reached  at that time. He says 
this was for Abbey to maintain the payments  to some of his policies and to provide benefits 
no less or better than those provided by the occupational pension scheme (OPS)  which he 
transferred to Abbey previously. 
In addition Mr M believes Abbey has not administered his policy ***5760H correctly or as an 
ombudsman said they should do in 2007. He has said that the policy  should  always  provide 
£50,000 life cover and £50,000 savings (the sum he should get if he cashed it in).
Mr M has said that the payment from his policy ***1334G should  have increased with 
inflation and Abbey owe him an overpayment. 
Mr M has said that payments to his policy ****15601L should have also increased every year 
but Abbey  has not done that.  
Many of the payments to Mr Ms policies  have been  made because of claims on the Waiver 
of Premium benefit (WOP) attached to the policies. This benefit  means that Abbey will pay 
the premiums in the event of ill health.  Mr M says that Abbey has not administered the WOP 
correctly  for example in respect of his policy ****65146H.
He also says that deductions and payments from his policies have been made incorrectly.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 27 June 2018.  A copy  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
Abbey accepted the provisional  decision and made  no further submissions.
Mr M did not accept the provisional decision. He made extensive further submissions which  I 
have considered in full.
Mr M mentioned that investigations were ongoing  at Phoenix, Abbey  Lifes  owners, into a 
number of issues. 
Phoenix has confirmed  that it continued to look into some of Mr Ms concerns  and has now 
issued a Final Response Letter of 17 August 2018. It has reviewed some  of Mr Ms 
concerns and it has made further offers to Mr M, which I will set out later.  It has also now 
confirmed that its consideration of the complaint  is at an end. 
I appreciate that Mr M may have requested further information from various businesses  but 
having considered that, I believe I am now in a position to issue a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes all of the submissions 
(including phonecalls)  Mr M has made since I issued my provisional decision. I should  make  
Ref: DRN62504612it clear that I will not detail every point  Mr M has made in this decision but what  I believe is 
material to the outcome
I recognise that Mr M has requested that his case is mediated. However, give the extensive  
submissions and discussion already having already  taken place and that Abbey, Phoenix 
and Mr M have made their positions  clear, I do not believe there would be anything  to be 
gained by that. I do not believe that this is now the appropriate way to resolve  the complaint 
and I should proceed to issue  a final formal decision.  
I also note that Mr M says he still has various  requests for information outstanding from 
several parties. I have  considered that but given that extensive submissions and 
investigations that have been  made  since issue of my provisional decision and the many 
information requests,  including subject  access requests, I am now in a position to issue a 
final decision. I would make it clear that no party has had any influence over my issuing of a 
final decision  or my investigation.   
 
Mr M has referenced  other complaints he has now made to Phoenix.  I will not be considering 
such in this decision. 
With respect to the merits of the complaint itself, I would first note that Mr M seems to 
continue to maintain  that Abbey was ordered  by the PIAOB in 1999  to carry out certain  
actions. Mr M uses the example of WOP being applied  to his pension.  I would repeat what  I 
said in the provisional decision - that the evidence does  not indicate  that the ombudsman in 
1999 found in favour  of Mr M. The documents I have seen clearly set out that the 
ombudsman made  no award. 
Mr M has drawn attention  to a letter from the PIAOB of September 2000. This stated:
I refer to your recent correspondence to this Bureau in which you are revisiting  the issues 
surrounding the complaint  you referred here in relation to your pension review. The 
Ombudsman, (ombudsman name), sent you a decision  on this matter on 3 March 1999. In 
that decision letter he advised you that after consideration of the facts of your case he did 
not make  any award. This decision did not remove your legal rights and you were  left with 
the option of using the courts.
There is no suggestion, as Mr M says in his submissions, in that letter  that an offer was 
made and accepted that Abbey Life would:
Guarantee that the Life Company will make up the personal pension  to the amount which  
would have been paid by the occupational scheme.....
I explained in the provisional decision that the evidence was that the ombudsman had not 
made a decision  in Mr Ms favour but there had been a separate  offer made  by Abbey Life 
that Mr M had agreed to. So any argument or opinion  formed on the basis  of Mr Ms 
complaint being  upheld  in 1999 would be incorrect. For example, the ombudsman  in 1999 
did not order that Mr M should be provided with any Certificates of Guarantees for his 
policies as Mr M suggests. And the evidence does  not suggest  that the ombudsman  upheld 
the complaint  about the review of Mr Ms pension.
I realise that there  are Abbey internal notes from 6 August 1999 and 8 September  1999 
(about adding WOP to Mr Ms pension)  that records that, PIA have ruled against us on a 
recent complaint. But I do not, considering the other  evidence,  believe that represents the 
Ref: DRN62504613true position.  I do not know why the Abbey  employee was using that wording but the 
evidence from the ombudsman service clearly  demonstrates an award was not made by the 
PIAOB. 
The law does not require  Abbey  to have retained a copy of the ombudsmans  decision from 
1999. We have  previously requested the information  it holds  and it does not have a copy. I 
do not agree  that the evidence suggests  that Abbey  is concealing it. It is unfortunate that 
neither Abbey, Mr M or this service have a copy of it. But as I say the evidence does not 
suggest the ombudsman in 1999 made  a ruling against Abbey and so it is highly unlikely it 
would support Mr Ms complaint. So I do not believe Mr M is being caused serious loss in 
this respect. 
Mr Ms Occupational  Pension Scheme
I note Mr Ms further submissions about his OPS and that he says he was promised better 
(or at least as good) benefits by Abbey. I set out in the provisional decision  why I would not 
be considering  Mr Ms complaint about the OPS benefits he gave up, which included any 
availability of an ill health pension.  I set out that this had been  most likely considered in 
1998/1999 and why I did not believe that the ombudsman in 1999  upheld this point of 
complaint. I would refer the parties to the provisional decision. 
Mr Ms references to ill health  and his pension were clearly considered   the letter from the 
PIAOB in September  2000 referenced a letter from the PIAOB of 1999:
It further stated that the Bureau, following the deliberations of the Council, would not 
consider further  your grievance centred on the ill health pension.
I would also highlight that the correspondence  with the PIAOB in 1998 that Mr M has now 
provided would support  the position that the issues with respect  to the transfer/opt  out of his 
OPS were considered  then (and by decision  by an ombudsman  in 1999). Whilst Mr M draws  
attention to Abbey/Phoenix internally querying  the approach to the pension review  
calculation, what it material to my decision is that the review and the way it was carried  out 
was put before an ombudsman in 1999 and he made a decision based  on that. I cannot 
review that decision  and I have not seen further material new evidence  that would persuade 
me that this matter  should or could be considered again. Mr M says that material  evidence  
was withheld from the ombudsman in 1999 but I am not persuaded of that or that the 
ombudsman did not consider what was material to the outcome. Because of this Mr Ms 
submissions about  his health since 1993  do not affect the outcome.
It may be of help to Mr M to set out that being included  in Phase 1 or Phase 2 of the pension  
review does not necessarily mean that redress will be paid  that only occurs if a loss has 
been caused. The review does not automatically  require the issue  of a Certificate of 
Guarantee  that is but one redress method that can be used. I have  not seen evidence of 
such a guarantee  here.
Mr M refers to a Certificate of Guarantee which he says was issued or should have been 
when his pension  review was carried out. He says the businesss internal emails  of 22 
December 2004  proves this as does an email of 25 January 2018.
The email  of 22 December 2004 does not say that a Certificate of Guarantee has been 
given. It poses a question as to whether some  kind of guarantee may have been given. It 
does not say what kind of guarantee that might be or what  policy  it relates to. The email of 
Ref: DRN6250461425 January 2018  likewise  simply asks whether  there is any information on a guarantee. Mr 
M associates this with a Certificate of Guarantee but there  is no persuasive evidence that 
this is what is being referred to.  
policy ****65146H  
I considered this plan in the provisional decision.  It provides the ability to contract out of 
SERPS but the SERPS contributions are paid by the DHSS and do not benefit  from WOP. 
The application form which Mr M used  to apply for this plan includes the option for WOP 
because it can apply  to regular personal  contributions and life cover  (which  the application  
can be used to apply  for). It does not mean it can apply to SERPS contributions. 
Mr Ms submissions/calculations do not evidence that WOP was applied as to SERPS  
contributions, as would  be expected (WOP is not normally available  for SERPS 
contributions). Rather  they only suggest  the normal fluctuation in value with investments in 
equities and difference in calculation at different dates. Pension policy  ****15601L  did benefit  
from WOP benefit.  The SERPS  element of policy ****65146H did not. 
The fact that WOP applied to certain other of Mr Ms policies does not mean it applied to this 
policy. 
This SERPS  policy was not hidden; it was operational  and receiving SERPS contributions.  I 
have not seen evidence of the secret policies Mr M refers to or that the SERPS payments 
were not allocated by Abbey as they should  have  been. 
The life cover attached to this policy does benefit  from WOP and Abbey paid the premiums 
at the appropriate time  as I set out in the provisional decision.  
Mr M is concerned about what he calls a secret  policy  and refers  to a Document  6, dated 
7 May 2004.  He terms this an AVC and believes this shows untoward payments. Phoenix 
has confirmed this is not an Additional Contribution Plan  it is a SERPS  and life assurance 
plan (****65146Z  is the protected rights  element). The Comm  Paid  column refers to 
deductions made for the commission paid to the adviser for the original  advice to set up the 
plan (this is normal practise  when  advice has been given). These  are not secret  payments. 
Phoenix has confirmed  that the sensitive case  marker is used so that the figures are 
double checked  considering Mr Ms ongoing  concerns about his policies.  
 
I have not seen that Abbey is therefore  acting incorrectly in respect of this policy.   
policy ***5760H
Mr M has said that the refund of premiums  between 2015 and 2016  which  I referred to in the 
provisional decision has now been  paid and this resolved this issue.  
But he says the escalating payments to maintain the guaranteed sum of £50,000 previously  
ordered by an ombudsman at this service,  remains unresolved.
I did consider this matter  in the provisional  decision. For the reasons explained in the 
provisional decision, the policy does  not provide a savings value of £50,000. In other words 
that is not what Mr M would receive if he cashed it in. He would  receive whatever 
encashment value the policy would  have been at that time. The policy  documents  Mr M has 
supplied which relate to this policy do not say it will provide  the sum of £50,000  if cashed  in. 
Ref: DRN62504615They say the policy has a sum assured  (what  it will pay out on death) of £50,000  and even 
then that is only guaranteed for 10 years before a review will be carried out. If at that point 
the review shows that an extra premium  is required  to support the £50,000 then that will be 
requested. So the policy  does not guarantee a sum assured of £50,000 for the same 
premium indefinitely. Mr M will note this is what  happened more recently when the policy  
was reviewed.
 
In any event the ombudsman in 2007  did make an award that the sum assured should  be 
maintained at £50,000. But I would  reiterate what I said in the provisional decision in that he 
did not say that Abbey  should  provide  life cover of £50,000 after age 60 for the same  
premium.
However, Phoenix has looked  at this issue again and said that when the premiums are being 
paid under WOP, the regular policy reviews still take place. These reviews give Mr M the 
option to pay more into the policy to support its value  going forward. Abbey has decided to 
assume that Mr M would have done that when the reviews took place  and therefore the 
value would have  been higher. It has said it will increase the value of the fund by £3,251.79. 
Mr M would not have to pay the higher premiums he would  have done  in the past had he 
opted to increase the premium. He will have to pay the premiums  in future to support the 
policy as WOP has now ended.
Mr M should be aware that the policy will continue to be reviewed as normal going forward 
and it is possible he might have  to pay more in premiums to keep the sum assured at its 
current level. 
If I decided that Mr M would have taken  the decision to increase his premium at the review  
dates (as Phoenix  has done) then my view would be that what Phoenix  has offered would be 
a fair resolution. So I make no award over and above that. 
I have not seen evidence that Abbey are now calculating the policy  value incorrectly  which 
will not, as explained  in my provisional decision,  be the same as the amount of life cover 
provided. I am not persuaded by the evidence that Abbey  has not applied Mr Ms premiums 
correctly to the policy fund or investment units have gone missing Deductions  are made to 
pay for the life cover  the policy provides  there is no evidence they have been instead  
directed elsewhere  or to other parties.   
policy ***1334G 
My view remains as set out in the provisional  decision. When  a valid claim was made Abbey 
paid Mr M the benefits of this policy, as required, until he reached his 60th birthday. I have 
not seen evidence that Abbey misled  Mr M that the income from the policy  would increase in 
payment or altered  the application for a level policy when Mr M wished it to be escalating. 
And the documentation  I have seen (including the Personal  Financial  Analysis)  does not 
say that it will do so. The evidence is that the policy was intended to be set up on a level 
basis and this was the recommendation. The fact that the policy may have been set up at 
outset on the maximum income allowable  at the time does  not mean or suggest that it will 
then increase. That does not follow. Abbey has confirmed that no tax was deducted from the 
payments. 
It is worth noting that the recording of client output supressed that Mr M refers  to, means 
that the normal, automatically generated, communications  are not issued. This is Abbeys 
normal process when  a claim has been accepted  on the policy. It says this is so that 
Ref: DRN62504616irrelevant information  is not issued. I do not believe this is evidence  that Abbey was treating 
Mr M incorrectly.  
Given the comments that Mr M has made it would be worth noting that this is a standalone 
policy and is not attached to any of his pensions. It provides distinct income benefits 
unrelated to his pension  plans and is not rendered  unsuitable by the fact that some of his 
other pension plans had WOP. The fact that it may have  been taken into account  in pension 
review calculations does  not alter that position.  
policy ****15601L
As discussed in the provisional decision, a WOP  claim was made  and the premiums for this 
pension policy were  paid by Abbey from 1993 until 2016. Under  the type of (10%)  increases 
Mr M selected when he took out the policy, increases would not take place when premiums 
were being  paid under WOP. The terms for the policy do say that contributions to the plan 
benefits can increase  by 10% per year (if selected) but they do not say that they will increase 
when WOP is paying the contributions. I appreciate that Mr M says that is what he 
understood but the evidence does not suggest  that.   
However, Abbey has now decided that it will assume that an incorrect  option was selected. It 
has said that the other option was to have premium increases equal to RPI. The premium 
increases under this option would  have continued  when WOP was in force.  Increases when 
WOP applied of RPI would have meant that Mr Ms fund would have been £13,234 higher at 
age 60 when Mr M took benefits.  And so it will pay this sum to Mr M plus 8% interest.   
I do not believe any further award is warranted  above the amount offered.
other matters
As I discussed in respect of Mr Ms complaint about  the pension  review earlier, I have not 
seen evidence of Abbey granting Certificate  of Guarantees for his policies or the PIAOB  or 
this service awarding such.  Abbey  applying  WOP or maintaining life assurance is not the 
same thing.  
Phoenix has now offered  Mr M an additional £500  for the time taken to investigate his 
concerns. He should now consider whether he wishes  to accept this. 
Mr M has made a series  of statements  about Abbey not acting correctly and discussing fraud 
and criminal  activities by Abbey. Having considered all the evidence,  as I said in the 
provisional decision, I have not found  evidence of such activities  and I do not uphold  the 
complaint on that basis. Therefore if Mr M would  like the FCA to look into these  matters  he 
should contact  it direct.
As a general observation about  WOP, I can only repeat what I said in my provisional 
decision in that Abbey applied WOP to his policies (as applicable). To do so may well have 
been part of an agreement in 1999.  But, regardless of that, I do not believe that Mr M has 
been disadvantaged in Abbeys application of that benefit. As it paid the WOP and other 
protection benefits as it should,  I do not believe that further medical information is warranted 
or would alter the outcome  of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN62504617Mr M has made reference to case law and the requirement that I issue a decision that is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. I have issued a decision that is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
If Mr M wishes to accept  Phoenix/Abbeys current offers (as discussed above) and/or its 
offer of £500 he can contact it direct. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62504618copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mr M says that Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited  (Abbey)  has not abided by an award  made  by 
an ombudsman scheme in 1999 or an agreement reached  at that time. He says this was for Abbey  to 
maintain the payments to some of his policies  and to provide benefits no less or better  than those 
provided by the occupational pension  scheme (OPS)  which he transferred to Abbey previously.  
In addition Mr M believes Abbey has not administered his policy ***5760H  correctly or as an 
ombudsman said they should do in 2007. He has said that the policy should  always provide £50,000  
life cover and £50,000 savings (the sum he should get if he cashed it in).
Mr M has said that the payment from his policy  ***1334G  should  have increased  with inflation and 
Abbey owe him an overpayment. 
Mr M has said that payments to his policy ****15601L should have also increased every year but 
Abbey has not done that.  
Many of the payments to Mr Ms policies have been made because  of claims  on the Waiver of 
Premium benefit (WOP)  attached to the policies. This benefit means that Abbey  will pay the 
premiums in the event of ill health. Mr M says that Abbey has not administered the WOP correctly   
for example  in respect of his policy ****65146H.
background 
Mr M complained to Abbey  but it did not uphold his complaint.  It said that it had provided  the benefits  
it should  have done both under the terms of the policies  and as a result of previous complaints. It said 
it did not have requirement to match the benefits provided by Mr Ms previous OPS. 
Mr M referred  his complaint to this service.  He added that he had new evidence  which meant that the 
previous findings by this service should be reviewed   such as findings  by the industry regulator and 
information obtained from Abbeys own records. 
His complaint was reviewed  by an investigator. In the main he did not uphold the complaint. He did 
not believe Abbey had withheld information and ombudsmen had dealt with some of the issues 
previously. He said that in his view Abbey was providing the benefits it should, including those  that an 
ombudsman at this service said it should. He did not think Abbey  had to provide benefits equal  to Mr 
Ms previous OPS. 
The investigator however  had not seen evidence  that increases should  not have applied to one of Mr 
Ms pension policies. So he provisionally upheld that issue. However Abbey  later provided the policy 
terms which set out increases did not apply. 
Mr M did not accept the investigators findings.  He repeated that Abbey had acted  incorrectly and 
withheld information. It had sought to purposefully disadvantage him and he had not received  the 
benefits to which he was entitled.
The complaint has, therefore, been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62504619Mr M has made a number of lengthy submissions  about his policies.  I would  like to confirm that I have 
considered everything  he has said but I will not necessarily address  every point in this decision.  I will 
address what  I believe is material to the outcome  of the complaint.
Firstly I will set out the issues previously considered by previous ombudsmen  as this will affect what  I 
can consider  in this decision and my findings.
the decision by the ombudsman in 1999
Mr M brought  a complaint  to Personal Investment Authority Ombudsman Bureau (PIAOB)  at this time. 
The PIAOB was a predecessor  scheme of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I have not seen an 
explanation of what that complaint was and there are no records retained by this service  as to what  
the complaint concerned.  I will, therefore,  base my decision on the evidence that is available. 
I think  that it is likely that at least part of the complaint was about the suitability of the transfer of Mr 
Ms OPS  to Abbey  which I understand was around 1988. I say this because  Mr M completed a 
pension review questionnaire around 1996 which  would  allow Abbey to calculate  whether  he had 
suffered a loss by transferring. There are Abbey records which indicate that having  undertaken the 
review, Abbey found that Mr M had not been disadvantaged. Abbey has confirmed  it sent files relating 
to this review to the PIAOB in 1998  which  it would  have likely done if that was one of the matters 
being considered in the complaint.  
What this means is that it is likely that a complaint by Mr M about his OPS transfer was considered by 
an ombudsman and decided previously. I cannot review that decision again.  
In terms of Abbey not following an award the PIAOB ombudsman made in 1999, the evidence I have 
seen indicates that the PIAOB ombudsman did not uphold Mr Ms complaint.  Although unfortunately  
the decision issued by the ombudsman  is not available, what is described  in the correspondence from 
the ombudsman afterwards  (in 2005) is that the ombudsman issued a decision  not upholding the 
complaint. 
What the evidence  would  indicate most likely happened then is that Abbey was asked whether an 
offer it had made prior to the ombudsman decision was still available. It would  appear it was and it 
seems that Mr M accepted that. That was an agreement between Mr M and Abbey, it was not 
something awarded or enforced by the PIAOB as Mr M suggests.
A copy of this agreement is not available. But this appears likely  to amount to Abbey maintaining the 
premiums for several of Mr Ms policies  and possible reinstatement  of his pension  term assurance 
policy (this is not clear). If that is correct then that would only amount to paying  the plan premiums 
and maintaining some  policies. It does not equate to making sure that the Abbey scheme  matches the 
benefits of the OPS  Mr M previously had access to (and was transferred to Abbey). Paying  policy 
premiums and making sure a policy provides benefits equivalent to an OPS are two very different 
matters. 
I have not seen any evidence that the PIAOB  made any award or direction that Mr Ms pension 
benefits should match or better the terms of his OPS nor any evidence  the agreement between Mr M 
and Abbey included that. Indeed it is very unlikely the PIAOB made such  a direction because, as 
discussed, it did not uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
So it follows that Abbey  do not have to match any and all benefits  supplied by Mr Ms previous OPS, 
whether that be pension or life assurance. That would  include ill health retirement. That would only be 
relevant if the PIAOB ombudsman  had made a finding that Abbey should match the benefits from the 
OPS  and there  is no evidence he did. So I do not believe that Abbey did not follow an award  made  
by the ombudsman to in some respect  equalise  Mr Ms Abbey pension  with his OPS  benefits in future.  
Therefore there is nothing to instruct the FCA to enforce as Mr M requests. 
Ref: DRN625046110Mr M has made a number of references to LAUTRO, SIB and FSA rules  which he says support  his 
positon that his Abbey pension  should match or better that of his previous OPS. I do not agree. The 
LAUTRO rules Mr M has referred to detail obligations on businesses to give suitable  advice and 
provide the most appropriate  product  from their range of products. They do not require Abbey to 
provide a guarantee that a plan will better his OPS  benefits. 
The Final Notice Mr M refers  to is a regulatory fine on Abbey.  It describes certain  general  regulatory 
obligations that a regulated  business has. It is not an order that it provides certain  benefits to Mr M, 
nor does it find that Mr M has been disadvantaged. It does not indicate that Abbey necessarily acted  
incorrectly with regards to Mr M. In any event, if Mr M believes that the Final Notice imposed certain 
actions in relation to him on Abbey Life, and it has not followed that, then he should refer his concerns 
to the FCA. 
So, in summary I do not believe I can consider a complaint again  about  the transfer of Mr Ms OPS  
benefits and I also will not inform the FCA that Abbey  has not followed an ombudsman decision that it 
should make  sure its pension equals or betters the benefits provided by his OPS  because  the 
ombudsman did not make such an award. 
the decision by the ombudsman in 2007
In his final decision the ombudsman  considered  pension policy ****65146H  and life assurance policy  
***5760H. 
He considered the issue  of SERPS rebates to Mr Ms Abbey pension and found  that Abbey had done 
nothing wrong in this regard. He also considered that the life assurance policy was not principally  a 
savings policy and did not guarantee to pay out any particular value. He was therefore not making any 
award that a certain  amount should be paid in future. 
He then went  on to make to make an award. This was for Abbey to:
Reinstate the life cover  on ***5760H to £50,000 and provide WOP  on the policy  until Mr M 
recovers from his illness or age 60. 
Set up a new pension term assurance of £30,123 with the premiums to be paid by WOP until 
age 65, providing that Mr M continues to qualify for WOP.  
Pay a sum for distress and inconvenience.
I have not seen any evidence that the ombudsman considered the transfer of Mr Ms OPS  to Abbey.  
I cannot consider  or review the issues considered by the ombudsman in 2007 again. That decision 
was final. Mr M has said that it can be considered  again if there is material  new evidence.  But I have  
not seen any material evidence that would affect  the outcome.  The existence of the OPS prior to Mr 
Ms transfer  to Abbey (which the ombudsman  in 2007 was likely aware of) does not materially affect 
the issues  considered by him. So I cannot consider  these  issues again. The ombudsman would  have 
been aware  of the rules  that applied  to the provision  of financial services  products and the Final 
Notice of 2002 issued against  Abbey  at the time he made a decision.  Making  reference to those 
matters is not new evidence.   
 
Bearing in mind  these previous complaints I have considered the issues Mr M has raised: 
policy ****65146H  
This is a pension policy providing life cover and the ability  to contract out of SERPS. This was 
considered by the ombudsman  in 2007. Abbey is continuing to waive premiums due to a valid WOP 
claim and the life cover supplied is at the level the ombudsman recommended. 
Ref: DRN625046111I cannot consider  or review the matters the ombudsman  considered in 2007. And Abbey is providing  
the benefits the ombudsman ordered. So I am not intending to uphold the complaint made about this 
policy. 
policy *****5601L 
This is a pension policy designed to build up funds for retirement. 
There was a claim  on this policy for WOP  benefit,  which Abbey treated as valid, in October  1993. The 
premiums were, therefore, waived. 
Mr M believes that as the policy was set up with indexed (increasing) payments, those  payments 
should have also increased when the WOP was in force. 
The policy conditions for this plan, however, do state  that when the policy  premiums are being paid by 
WOP, the premiums  will not escalate but stay the same as immediately before the WOP came into 
force. This is what Abbey did. 
So in my view Abbey administered the policy  in line with the policy  conditions and has not done 
anything wrong in this respect.  I therefore  do not uphold  this point of complaint.
As discussed there is an overarching  complaint  with respect to Mr Ms pension policies ****65246H 
and *****5601L (and potentially  including  his other policies) that the overall benefits should  match  that 
of his previous  OPS. As set out earlier,  I do not believe that the PIAOB ombudsman  in 1999 made  a 
decision to the effect that the Abbey pension should match or exceed the benefits from his OPS. 
There is no requirement  that it should do that. It should  also be noted  that the ombudsman  in 1999 
likely considered the issue  of benefits provided by the OPS and Abbey scheme. And Abbey did carry  
out a loss assessment  around 1998  in that respect which detailed no loss had been caused. 
policy ***5760H  
This is primarily a life assurance policy. It is not a savings policy, although  it can build up a value. Mr 
Ms premiums  are invested into a fund and it is hoped that the performance of that fund is sufficient to 
support the costs of the providing the life assurance over time. At some point the performance of the 
fund might not be of a level to support the costs of the life cover in future and therefore extra 
premiums might be needed or the amount of life cover  may need to be reduced.  It is the case that the 
policy may build a value (this fund used to support  the life cover) which can be taken  if the policy  is 
cashed in. But there is no guarantee as to what that amount will be.  
Abbey was required by the ombudsman  decision  of 2007 to maintain  the life assurance at £50,000 
until Mr Ms 60th birthday. The requirement  was not to maintain the cover at that level for the same 
premium after age 60. And I understand that unfortunately the cover has fallen to £27,057 at review.  
However this is the normal operation of the policy and Abbey has not done anything wrong.  
The ombudsmans decision  also did not say that the investment value or surrender value of the policy  
had to be £50,000 (it was never that amount). And Mr M may have misunderstood that the life cover 
value was also the investment value. But this is not the case. The surrender value in November  2017 
was about £12,000   which was what Mr M could have cashed it in for at that point.  It may be different 
now as it there is no guaranteed value at any point. Mr Ms policy is not worth £50,000  if he cashes it 
in and Abbey was not at any point  required to supply that.
Regardless of any hidden policies which Mr Ms says may exist (and Abbey say do not exist), the 
material issue  is that Abbey  has provided  the benefits that it should have done under the policy. I 
have not seen  any evidence  that Abbey incorrectly transferred  money  away from this policy or carried 
out an incorrect review in 2017. The references Mr M has drawn attention  to on Abbey records do not 
in my view indicate that Abbey has done anything wrong with his policy. For example, records 
indicating that Mr M was not aware of a review  most likely  relate  to that fact that Mr M had not been 
Ref: DRN625046112supplied with the results of the review yet and references to cancelling money  from a suspense 
account are likely to be internal references to what is necessary  to put matters right with respect to Mr 
Ms policy. In any event they do not indicate Abbey has acted  incorrectly with respect to his policy.
It is my understanding  that Abbey has offered  to refund the premiums (plus  interest)  incorrectly paid 
(because of the early incorrect cessation of the WOP), amounting to about  £500, between November 
2015 and December 2016.   
So, notwithstanding the refund of these premiums, Abbey has administered the policy as it was 
required to do and I do not uphold this point  of complaint.   
policy ***1334G 
This was an income protection  plan designed to pay a monthly sum if Mr M could not work. I 
understand the policy  ended  once Mr M reached 60, which was in 2017. After  Mr M made a claim  on 
this policy Abbey  correctly started paying him the monthly benefit  amount. Mr M believes that as the 
benefit amount was indexed previous to his claim (it increased annually),  his payment from Abbey 
should have also have increased  after the claim  was made. 
My understanding is this policy was set up to provide a level benefit  which means  that once in 
payment it provided a level monthly amount which did not increase. This was the basis on which the 
policy was set up so I cannot find that Abbey have not administered the policy  correctly and paid the 
claim Mr M was entitled to.  
Mr M also queried whether he had been paid all the payments he should  have. The evidence  
indicates that Abbey did make the right payments   the last being a proportionate payment for the 
period 18 November  to 6 December 2016. 
So I do not believe that Abbey has acted incorrectly in this respect.  I do not intend to uphold this point 
of complaint.  
  
In summary I do not believe that the complaint should be upheld for the reasons I have discussed.
my provisional  decision
I do not intend  to uphold this complaint or make  any award.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6250461