K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains about the compensation that shes been offered by Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited for a fault with a car that was supplied to her under  a hire purchase 
agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Ms H under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services that she signed in June  2015.  The agreement has a term of four years.
She became aware of a fault with the car in April 2018, which stopped  the convertible roof 
from working. She returned  the car to the dealer  at the beginning of May 2018  for repair, and 
a fault with the window  regulator was identified.  Ms H was provided  with a courtesy car but, 
because of a delay in the supply of a replacement  part, the repair took three  months. Ms H 
claimed compensation from Volkswagen  Financial  Services  for the loss of use of her car and 
said that the fault had stopped her from part-exchanging it. It offered to pay her £120 
compensation - but she didnt accept and complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She didn't think  that it 
was fair for Ms H to pay her agreed monthly  instalment for a car which wasn't of a 
satisfactory quality from May to August 2018.  So she recommended  that Volkswagen  
Financial Services should compensate Ms H for her loss of enjoyment  as she wasnt  able to 
operate the cars  rear windows or convertible roof during the summer  of 2018. 
She also said that it should  refund  50% of her monthly instalments from May to July 2018 
(which she said was £358.32) and that it should pay her £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience shed  been caused by the delay in supplying  the new window regulator and 
the inability for Ms H to consider alternative  cars at that time for a part-exchange.
Volkswagen Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says,  in summary,  that:
the issue with the window  regulator  wasnt a result of an inherent fault with the car;
the monetary  gesture  it offered  to Ms H was purely as a gesture of goodwill and not 
as an admission of fault;
the issue began after Ms H had owned the car for almost  three  years  and it required 
a repair  at the dealer;
any delay in the repair is out of its control; and
its unreasonable to pursue it for something  that it doesnt hold any influence over. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Volkswagen Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring  that 
the car was of satisfactory  quality.  Whether it was will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age, and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. 
The car that was supplied  to Ms H was a new car and I consider that it was reasonable for 
her to expect  that it would be free from even minor  defects. Satisfactory quality also covers  
Ref: DRN62058232durability, which  means that the components within the car must be durable and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of 
factors. 
I consider that it was reasonable for Ms H to expect the convertible roof to be free from faults 
for more than three years. But there  was a fault with the cars window regulator which  
stopped the roof from working  properly in April 2018.  This fault was repaired under warranty,  
but the car was with the dealer  for more than three  months and she wasnt able to enjoy it 
during that period (but she was provided  with a courtesy car).
Ms H was making monthly  payments of £238.88 to Volkswagen Financial Services  during 
that period. When she complained, it offered her compensation of £120 as a gesture of 
goodwill. But I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for Ms H to have made those  
payments in full when  she wasnt  able to fully and properly enjoy her own car (and was 
provided with a courtesy car that wasnt a convertible). So I find that it would  be fair and 
reasonable for it to refund to her 50% of the payments that she made between  May and July 
2018 (which is a total of £358.32).
The car was with the dealer for three months  which will also have caused distress  and 
inconvenience to Ms H. And she says that this delay prevented her from part-exchanging her 
car. Taking  this into account, I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Volkswagen 
Financial Services to pay £100 to Ms H to compensate her for that.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint. And I order Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
1.Pay £358.32 to Ms H as a rebate  on her monthly payments, to reflect her loss of 
enjoyment of the car.
2.Pay £100 to Ms H to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6205823