K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs B says Capital  One (Europe) Plc mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  andvma  arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs B took the PPI when she applied for her credit card by post. Mrs B has said she didnt 
know shed taken PPI and it was added without  her consent. But her credit card application 
form had equally noticeable  boxes to tick to say either yes or no to the PPI. So I think  
Capital One made it clear  that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI. And Mrs B ticked  the 
box to say yes to PPI, so I think she chose to take it out.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B - so it didnt have to check  the PPI was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if the 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Mrs B wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it wouldve been  useful  for her if Mrs B lost 
her job or was too sick to work. 
Also Mrs B has told us her work sick pay would halve after six months. For a successful 
sickness or unemployment claim the PPI would pay out for longer  up two twelve months.  
And the benefit  would  be paid on top of Mrs Bs work sick pay or redundancy pay. Mrs B has 
said she couldve sold her car to raise funds.  But the PPI meant it was less likely shed have 
to sell her car to pay her credit card. Shes  also told us her husband  couldve helped  with her 
card payments. But other peoples circumstances and ability  to help can change.
Taking all this and everything  else into account,  I dont think  better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs B off taking the cover.
What Ive said above means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mrs B. But Capital One has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN67106132Ive thought about all Mrs Bs points, including what shes  said about Capital One failing in its 
duty to draw the main features of the policy to her attention  and about cost and benefit  
information not being given on the form where Mrs B ticked for the cover. But Ive explained 
why I dont think better information  wouldve  changed Mrs Bs decision to take the cover. So, 
for those  reasons  and the others Ive already given, these points dont  change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. If Mrs B needs  the cheque  to be reissued for 
any reason, she should  contact Capital One (Europe) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6710613