K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
refusing to carry out a repair under a homecare insurance policy. He wants  £1,000 to pay for 
someone to gain access to his heater  or for the work to be carried out by British Gas.
background
Mr P had a homecare insurance policy. His immersion heater  needed  repair and Mr P 
arranged for British Gas to fix it. Mr P said that British Gas said when it visited that it couldnt 
repair due to access issues. Mr P arranged for a second visit by British  Gas, and again it 
refused to repair due to access  issues. Mr P pointed out that within  the policy it said that up 
to £1,000 could be spent  to gain access,  but British Gas said that it would cost more  than 
that. Mr P didnt accept  that estimate.
Mr P complained to British Gas. It said that the issue of access  was complicated by 
difficulties in draining the system and supporting/removing the water tank (the alternative 
was that a wall needed to be removed). Mr P said the wall didnt need to be removed and 
the system had been drained  previously. British Gas offered to let Mr P cancel the policy.
Mr P complained to us. Mr P supplied evidence that the cost of supplying and fitting a new 
heater was £528. The adjudicator noted that the independent engineer didnt mention any 
access problems; as a result,  he didnt think that British Gas was correct  in saying there was 
an access issue and said it should pay Mr P £528 for the costs of repair and £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hed suffered due to the incorrect refusal to carry out 
the work.
British Gas disagreed.  It said that its engineer remained of the view that the costs of access 
were high and that it would  be necessary to remove a wooden frame and cylinder to reach 
the heater.  This was a job requiring  more  than one person and a draining of the system. 
British Gas said that it felt it would  be unsafe to proceed until the wooden structure was 
removed and Mr P had been  told this (and had agreed to arrange removal and contact 
British Gas to return).  It said Mr P didnt contact  it to confirm access  was now possible. The 
adjudicator pointed out that none of this was reflected in the work history  notes,  business  file 
or final response letter, and didnt change  his view. Mr P also said British  Gas never told him 
to remove the wooden frame and it would  then return, and noted that the work  had now been 
done without any trouble  by the independent  engineer (with an additional £200 cost to make 
good). Mr P was asked  to provide evidence of the additional costs, but didnt do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN65471532British Gas position is that the cost of accessing  the heater would be more than £1,000, and 
therefore under the terms of the policy, it is entitled to refuse to do the work. But British  Gas 
hasnt provided  a detailed breakdown showing why the work would be so expensive. 
Draining the system has been done previously  according to its own work history reports  and 
isnt expensive. In contrast, Mr P has supplied independent  evidence  showing that the repair 
work (presumably including access) totalled £528,  a sum less than £1,000. He hasnt as yet 
provided evidence  of the additional work, but I consider British Gas should  deal with that 
aspect of his claim if he does provide this evidence in due course. The engineer carried out 
the work  apparently without any access difficulties. So I think British  Gas has acted unfairly  
and unreasonably in refusing to carry out the work due to the cost of access.
And I note that British  Gas changed its position after the adjudicators view upholding the 
complaint, but theres no evidence supporting what it then said. I would expect this 
information and assertion  that Mr P was told to remove  a wooden frame  to be in the 
business file, contemporaneous documents and the final response letter. I cant  place much 
weight on British Gas evidence on this regard, particularly as it conflicts with its earlier 
position.
I think its fair and reasonable for British Gas to pay £528 towards  the costs of repair  and 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its refusal  to do the work, and the 
consequent delay and inconvenience  for Mr P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and British  Gas Insurance  Limited should pay 
Mr P £528  for the costs  of repair and £200  compensation  for his trouble and upset.
In the event that Mr P provides documentary evidence showing the cost of any works  he 
paid for making  good following the repairs, British  Gas Insurance Limited  should  consider 
the making good costs under the terms of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before  17  July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6547153