K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC delayed  processing two money transfers  from his 
account with them to another account  that he held. Then, when he called them to chase up 
these payments, he wasnt told what the problem was. This caused him anguish and major 
inconvenience. 
He would like compensation of around £250  for the distress  and inconvenience  suffered in 
trying to resolve the issue.  
background
Mr S holds an account with Metro  Bank.  Around 21 December  2018, he says went  online to 
make a faster payment  to another account  that he held.  As a test, he put 45p through first. 
This showed up in his other account  immediately. He then transferred £2,150 to the same 
account. This didnt  show up. 
Mr S was concerned, so he called the bank.  At this point,  he was abroad  so it costs him 
money, as well as time, to make this call. Mr S says that he was told by the bank  that there 
was no issue with the payment. He was told to be patient as it could take 2 hours, or 24 
hours at the most. 
Whilst on the phone to the bank,  he put through another payment of £1 as a test. This was 
transferred immediately. He was told, once again,  that there was no issue  with the payment. 
He should wait and the money would come  through.
The payment eventually came through. Mr S assumed all the problems  had been  resolved. 
So, he made another transfer of £4,999 only to find that the payment didnt show up again. 
Mr S says he received  a missed call from the bank,  which turned out to be a security check. 
He had to call them back and, eventually, they let the payment go through. 
Mr S says that he discovered  then that both payments were  initially  blocked for security 
reasons. The first was then released, but the second  required the bank to speak to Mr S 
before it was processed.
Mr S was upset that the bank hadnt  told him the true reason for the delay when  he first 
contacted them. They had, instead, told him that there was no problem with the £2,150 
payment. He complained to the bank. 
The bank wrote their final response letter on 21 December 2018.  They  accepted that their 
service had fallen  short  of what was expected. They said that when Mr S had first called, the 
bank shouldve checked if the payment was being held for security checks  rather  than telling 
Mr S to wait for 24 hours. They had offered £20 compensation  for their error over the phone 
to Mr S, but he had turned it down.  They  reiterated this in their letter. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with the banks level of compensation.  He expected  more  from them.  So, 
he brought the complaint  to us. 
Our investigator found that the banks offer of £20 compensation for their misinformation in 
not telling  Mr S that the money  was being  held for security checks was reasonable. He 
Ref: DRN69399012thought that the inconvenience  caused  didnt warrant an increase in the compensation 
offered.  
Mr S didnt think that our investigator had made the right decision. In particular, he thought 
that he hadnt properly considered the following points:
that he suffered  anguish and major  convenience in having  to make calls to the bank  
from abroad, where he was living, which costs him around £25;
that he also had to call the receiving bank  to see if the problem had occurred on their 
side;
that Metro bank shouldve been  clearer with him about the reason for the delay. If 
they had, all this wouldve  been  avoided. Instead, they supposedly checked the 
reason for the hold up in the transfer  whilst  he was on the phone to them and told 
him that it wasnt blocked for security  reasons  which was misleading and led to 
unnecessary stress and effort  on his part;
that he needed the money transferred to process  payments to his credit  cards.  He 
couldve been charged interest. He managed to avoid financial  loss but he doesnt 
feel that it shouldve  been left to the last minute;
that he didnt  understand why the first transfer needed no phone call from the bank 
but the second did. He felt that the process was random and didnt inspire 
confidence;
that the bank  had offered £20 but he thought that they had withdrawn this offer.  
The complaint has now come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the stress  and inconvenience that Mr S was put to. He was transferring large 
sums of money and it mustve been  distressing  to see them  disappear. On top of this, the 
banks misinformation  about the security  checks could only have added to this stress. But 
Im afraid that Mr S wont be happy  with my decision. I think  that the £20 offered by the bank 
is sufficient compensation. I will explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr S made  many  phone calls whilst  he was abroad to try to sort out what 
had happened  to his transfers.  But, I dont think those phone  calls were necessary. I have 
looked at the terms and conditions of his account.  They state that transfers  can take two 
hours, and in some cases, they could  take up to 24 hours.  So, when Mr S first called  the 
bank and was told that the transfer could take 24 hours, regardless of being given incorrect 
information about there being no issue with the transfer, he couldve just waited. 
I can see from the banks  records that the transfer  of £2,150 was requested  at 23:58hrs  on 
20 December 2018 and released at 11:39hrs on 21 December  2018. This was less than 24 
hours. I wouldve expected Mr S to have waited 24 hours before any further calls were 
made. 
Taking the fact that the transfers went through within 24 hours as the bank had suggested  
that they would,  I see no reason why Mr S had to call the receiving bank to see if the 
problem had occurred  on their side. The first step was to ensure that the transfer had been 
processed by Metro bank.  Mr S was told that this could  take 24 hours.  As it took less time 
than this, I see no reason  why the other bank had to be called. 
Ref: DRN69399013The banks records show that the transfer  for £4,999 was requested  at 11:43hrs  on 21 
December 2018  and released  at 15:08hrs on 21 December 2018. Again, this was less than 
24 hours. 
I agree  with Mr S that the bank shouldve told him that the delay was due to security checks 
being carried out. It was a clear error  on the part of the bank not to have done so. But, I dont 
agree that the compensation for this should  be higher than £20. 
Our role as the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not to punish  the business.  It is to try and 
reach a fair outcome  for all parties  involved.  Whilst I do acknowledge that the bank  couldve 
given better  information  to Mr S regarding the security  checks,  I also bear in mind that the 
transfers went through well within 24 hours which is the longest that they couldve taken. So, 
I dont think that it would be fair to ask the bank to pay more than £20 for their error. 
I do appreciate that the delayed transfers  caused Mr S anguish especially as he had credit 
card balances to pay. I am glad that he had allowed sufficient time for the transfers to come 
through so that the payments could be made without interest being applied.  As there was no 
loss to Mr S regarding this, I cant award  any additional compensation. 
I accept that the banks  practice of requiring a security call for the second payment but not 
for the first payment  does  seem random. But, it is only the regulator that can deal with the 
banks processes and suggest changes.  As the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  this is 
outside our remit. 
I think that it is fair and reasonable,  in these circumstances, that the bank pays  Mr S £20 
compensation for the misinformation given  about the delay. 
my final decision
Because of the misleading information given to Mr S about the reasons for the delay of his 
transfer, I require Metro Bank PLC to pay him £20 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6939901