K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs A bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post.
At the time,  Mrs A was employed as a petrol  station assistant. She has told us she was 
entitled to death in service benefit and redundancy pay. I also think  its likely  she wouldve 
been entitled to statutory  sick pay. Mrs A has said she had medical  conditions  some years  
prior to the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs As credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.  At the time,  it cost 60p per 
£100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium  would  continue  to have to be paid 
during a successful  claim and it did attract  interest. In the event of death  it would  have repaid 
the remaining  balance,  up to a maximum of £10,000. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account  closed in 2007. 
Mrs As representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs As representative says:
Nationwide  failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mrs A wouldnt have taken out 
the policy  and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs As representatives believe there to 
be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide  should have 
told Ms A about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs A and the 
impact they would have  had on her chances  of making a claim; and
The information Mrs A received was misleading.  These policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN67768772Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees  of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN67768773The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs As case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs As complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide  gave  advice, whether it advised Mrs A with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mrs A sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing 
to her attention and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mrs A suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs A and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN67768774did Mrs A know she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Ive seen a copy  of Mrs As 
credit agreement. On it there is a section related to PPI where the box opting for the policy 
has been ticked. There was another box she could have ticked if she didnt want  PPI and 
theres nothing on the form to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  that Mrs A knew the policy was optional and she agreed to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Mrs A hasnt said if she thinks Nationwide provided advice. Nationwide  says it didnt  provide  
advice during this sale. Looking  at what happened  when Nationwide sold Mrs A the PPI, Im 
not persuaded that it provided  advice. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs A. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs A to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Nationwide has provided us with Mrs As credit agreement  showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve received, 
including the policy document   which I accept on a balance of probabilities   applied to 
policies like Mrs As. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs A at the time,  I dont think Nationwide gave Mrs A 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I think its unlikely Mrs A would have  agreed  to take it out 
without at least having a broad understanding of the cover it provided   i.e. life, accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  And I note that the credit agreement  gives  the cost of the 
PPI as 60p per £100 to protect  her card repayments against unemployment, accident, 
sickness and death. It also referred her to further  detail about the insurance enclosed  with 
the application.
But it was Nationwides  responsibility to draw to Mrs As attention the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide did enough  to do this. For example,  I dont  think the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mrs A, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim  or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that Nationwide  adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mrs A sufficient, appropriate and timely information to her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN67768775I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs As representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs As. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mrs As representative considers to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much  of the premium went to the business rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mrs A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs A has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mrs A? To what extent did Mrs A 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mrs A. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs A 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs A 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mrs A says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs A had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs A chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs A thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs A has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN67768776In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs A ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Nationwide  didnt make clear  the on-going  cost information. So while  Mrs A 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs A thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions Mrs A was aware  of at the 
commencement date, or she had suffered  from in the 12 months immediately before the 
commencement date of the policy; 
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mrs A 
wasnt a permanent  employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim  Mrs A be unable to do 
her own job, or any other occupation for which she was already fitted by knowledge or 
training; and
The accident, sickness and unemployment  cover  ended when Mrs A reached her 
normal state  retirement age.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs A pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs A from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mrs As circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. Although Mrs A says shed had medical conditions before the 
PPI was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had she needed time off work 
because of these  conditions, I dont think better information about  this exclusion would have 
put her off agreeing to it. I say this because Mrs As medical conditions occurred many  years 
prior to the sale, and there is nothing to suggest  she had any recurring issues  in relation to 
them. So I think the likelihood of her having  to claim for these conditions  was very low. 
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  caught by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs A 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
Ref: DRN67768777If Mrs A had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job and 
any other occupation for which  she was already fitted by knowledge or training, it might have 
played into her thinking  about  what she would have done. And I accept it may have given her 
pause for thought  although its possible  she may not have been overly concerned given that 
if Mrs A was unable (through disability)  to carry on her own occupation the chances that she 
would be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Mrs A says that she would have  ceased  to be eligible  to claim on the policy when  she 
reached a certain  age. In 2003 the state  retirement age was 60, so its possible thats when 
she was planning  on retiring.  But Mrs A was 54 when she took out the PPI, so I think  its 
more likely than not shed have thought shed still get some  value  out of having the PPI, as it 
would have covered her for a reasonable period  of time. And, in any event the policy  was 
cancelled in December  2007 before she reached the age of 60. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs A would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and she had limited means of meeting  her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness or redundancy.  And in 
those circumstances  I consider it more  likely  than not that she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.  
Mrs As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs A would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs A 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs A in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN67768778That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken out 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Nationwide  should pay Mrs A compensation,  as that would put her in a better 
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs A thinks Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mrs A, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs A and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs A in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6776877