K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Lendable  Ltd (Lendable)  charged her too much interest on her loan.
background
In September  2016 Ms B took out a loan for £13,000 over a term of 60 months. The terms of 
the loan agreement state that interest was fixed at 15.35% with an annual percentage rate 
(APR) of 18.4%. The total amount  she was contracted to pay back under  the agreement  was 
£19,245.22. This included  the loan amount, administration  fee of £780  and total interest.
Following review of her annual loan statement  in 2019 Ms B contacted Lendable and queried 
the amount of interest  she had paid  she believed she had been paying too much and that 
based on what she was being charged  in interest her loan wouldnt be paid off within  the 
loan term.
Lendable responded  confirming that the interest charged was correct and assured her the 
loan would be paid off within the 60 month loan term providing she kept up with her loan 
repayments. It also explained how the interest  payments reduced as the loan reduced and 
provided links to loan calculators  to illustrate how interest rates work and offered further  
support if required.
Ms B subsequently stopped making  her loan repayments and bought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at all of this and thought Lendable had correctly  calculated and 
applied the interest  to Ms Bs loan and didnt think it had done  anything wrong.
Ms B wasnt happy with this and asked for her complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B believes that Lendable was charging  too much  interest  on her loan. Lendable have 
provided a copy of the loan agreement and the annual  statements provided to Ms B.
I think the important  things that Ms B needed  to understand when entering into the loan 
agreement was:
1.How much money she was borrowing;
2.What interest rate she was being charged and in total how much it was going to cost 
her; and
3.How long it was going to take her to pay the loan off. 
I have looked  at the loan agreement and all the above figures  are given and made clear 
under the relevant headings  in bold. So I think Ms B wouldve understood how much she had 
to pay back in total under the loan agreement when she entered into it.
Ref: DRN68081752I have also checked  the above  amounts on independent loan calculators along with Ms Bs 
annual statements. The total amount charged appears correct  to me and Ms Bs interest 
charges have reduced over the course of the loan in line with what  I would expect. So 
although Ms B might not understand how interest is calculated on her loan I dont think  
Lendable have charged interest on her loan incorrectly or charged  her any more  than she 
agreed to pay back. 
In response to Ms Bs complaint Lendable assured  her interest  was being calculated 
correctly and her loan would be paid within the term agreed as well as providing her with 
further resources  and support should she wish to take it. So Im satisfied Lendable have 
done enough to address Ms Bs concerns and I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint against Lendable Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6808175