K820x#14Complaint
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs R says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  on a store card.
Background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received  any further comments from FICL.  Mrs Rs representative replied on her 
behalf. He said as FICL didnt sell the policy, it cannot know what happened  at the time of 
the sale. He went  on to say that when the policy  was sold to Mrs R, she was not asked about 
her employment status or whether she needed the policy and that this was a requirement for 
sales at the time.
While I appreciate his comments, it is not unusual for us to consider complaints where we 
dont have all of the information  available  from when the sale took place. In these instances 
we look at what we think is more likely to have happened, based on the information  we have 
available to us and from what we know in general about the sale of PPI policies. And, as this 
was a non-advised sale, FICL wasnt required to check if the policy  was right for Mrs R  it 
was for her to decide whether she wanted  the policy based on what  she knew  about her 
situation at the time, including her employment  benefits and any other means available to 
her.   
Mrs Rs representative also said Mrs R was entitled  to full sick pay as she had been too ill to 
work for some time during her pregnancy and had been fully paid by her employer. Ive 
thought carefully  about this point and while  it may have been  that Mrs R did receive full pay 
for the period of time she was off work, this isnt proof that Mrs R was entitled to 12 months 
full sick pay. 
Ive taken everything Mrs Rs representative has told us into consideration but unfortunately  
these comments dont  persuade me that I should change the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision. So it follows I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Mrs R.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Ref: DRN66087142Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66087143Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Its been agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs R says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  on a store card.
Background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 2000.
As I understand it, the policy cost was likely to be no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs R owed on her 
store card. The policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance  on the card each month if 
Mrs R couldnt work because  she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job  this would  be until 
she returned  to work or until the outstanding balance  was paid off. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL  disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Rs case.
I intend to not uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL had to make it clear  to Mrs R that the policy was optional and get her consent before  PPI could 
be applied to the account. Mrs R says she was not advised the PPI was optional.
Ive been given a copy of the application  form completed by Mrs R at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  to apply for Account  Cover  the name used by FICL for PPI. In this section 
it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover.
Mrs R has signed the section to confirm she wanted the cover. If Mrs R didnt want to take out the 
PPI she could have left this section  blank.  And Mrs R has signed the overall application form 
which suggests it reflected what she wanted.
So based on what Ive seen and been told, I think FICL made it clear  the policy  was optional and 
Mrs R chose  to take it out, knowing  she could refuse it if she didnt  want it.
FICL has said that no advice  was given  to Mrs R about the policy at the time of the sale.  Mrs R said 
she couldnt  recall if she received advice  or not. From what we know generally about  these sales,  
and from looking at the paperwork supplied,  I dont  think  FICL did recommend the policy  to Mrs R. 
So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL  did need to make sure it gave Mrs 
R clear  enough information about the policy to enable  her to decide for herself if she should take 
the policy.
Its possible the information  FICL gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But 
even if FICL  had given her better or clearer information, I dont think it would have made a 
difference. I still think she would have taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs R was eligible for 
Ref: DRN66087144the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, such as having 
unusual working arrangements or suffering from a medical condition of which she was already 
aware.
When the complaint  was initially made to us, Mrs R said she was entitled to more  than three months  
but less than six months sick pay from her employer. But the company she detailed as her employer  
was different to the one which FICL recorded from a conversation it had with her when reviewing her 
complaint. So our adjudicator asked her for clarification.
Mrs Rs representative contacted us to let us know that the employer  was incorrect and provided the 
correct employers details. He said that Mrs R had been working there for 18 months at the time and 
was entitled to full sick pay for 12 months. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that, had 
Mrs R been  made aware of the true costs of the policy, she wouldnt have considered  it good value for 
money, when  taking into consideration the 12 months full sick pay benefit  she told us she would  
receive.
FICL disagreed with this outcome, stating that it would be unusual for Mrs R to receive full sick 
pay for this period  of time. FICL said that it thinks it was unlikely  she would have received such 
generous benefits considering the length of time she had worked for the organisation.
Ive thought about this carefully and while  I think its possible that Mrs R could have been entitled to 
sick pay for 12 months, I dont think this would have been 12 months  full sick pay. In another  
complaint for a policy taken  out a year after this particular  sale,  Mrs R told us she would have 
received more than six months  but less than 12 months sick pay. And in a recent communication  
with our offices Mrs R told us that she would  receive  12 months  standard sick pay but she couldnt  
recall if the amount of sick pay reduced at any point. So it seems  Mrs Rs recollection of her 
employee benefits  has been affected over time  which isnt unusual  or surprising given that this sale 
took place nearly 19 years ago.
A benefit of 12 months full sick pay is quite  unusual in most employment contracts. In order to accept  
that Mrs R was entitled  to this generous  benefit at the time of the sale in 2000,  I would  need to see 
evidence of this being part of her contract.  Unfortunately Mrs R has told us that she doesnt have  
anything to support this. Without such evidence,  I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
When taking everything into consideration, I think this policy could have provided  a useful benefit to 
Mrs R, especially as she didnt have any other means with which to meet  her repayments if she 
wasnt working. While I note Mrs R has told us her husband and family  could have helped,  support 
from others cant be guaranteed as their circumstances  can also change, meaning they are unable 
to provide such financial  assistance. So this doesnt  alter my decision.
So, overall, I dont think Mrs R has lost out as a result of anything that FICL  may have done wrong.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN6608714