K820x#14Complaint
Mr O complained because Barclays Bank  UK PLC refused  to refund him for a credit card 
transaction which he disputed.
Background
Mr O opened his Barclays credit  card account on 10 September 2012. His credit limit was 
£2,000. He made four payments for under £100 each in early October. On 17 October 2012, 
a credit card payment to a pawnbroker for £1,702 was declined  because it would have taken 
Mr O over his limit. Hed only had £1,701 left to spend. A payment for £1,600 to the same 
recipient was made shortly afterwards. The payment was authenticated using the chip on Mr 
Os card and his PIN number. The payment  showed  on Mr Os monthly  statement dated  6 
November 2012.
Theres a conflict of evidence about  what happened  next:
-Mr O said that at some point in 2014 or 2015,  he was speaking  to Barclays customer 
service and was told about  there had been two transactions totalling £1,600. He said 
he told the bank  he hadnt authorised the transaction, and that the adviser  said the 
bank would take care of it and refund the money  into his account.  Mr O also said that 
hed told Barclays that no correspondence  of any sort should be sent to his address 
because he was living in a rented house with lots of other people.
-Barclays said that Mr O didnt raise  any question about the transaction  until 2018.  It 
said the transaction was made  with Mr Os card and PIN. The card wasnt replaced at 
the time of the transaction, which indicated that Mr O hadnt reported fraud at that 
time as the card would have been  changed  if he had. 
When Barclays replied to Mr Os 2018 complaint, it refused to refund him the £1,600.  
Barclays said the 2012 disputed transaction had been made using Mr Os card with its chip, 
and Mr Os PIN. And there was no evidence that anyone  else had obtained Mr Os card and 
PIN.
Mr O wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  Hed kept the card in his purse,  and  
thought someone  must have had access to his card and PIN when hed been  for a bath or 
when hed been in hospital.  He was unhappy that Barclays  hadnt  phoned him when the 
transaction had been made,  to make sure it was genuine. And he said his transactions  were 
usually under £100.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Os complaint.  He said the genuine card had been  used 
and the correct PIN had been  entered. The investigator considered  various options, such as 
whether someone  Mr O was living with had taken and replaced his card. But he said this 
wouldnt explain why Mr O hadnt  noticed  the high balance  on his monthly  statements, or 
why Mr O had increased what he paid back each month after the transaction,  even though  
he was paying  more than his normal spending. And whoever had tried to put through  the 
payment for £1,702 had known almost exactly how much was still available from Mr Os 
credit limit. The investigator concluded  that it was most likely that Mr O had completed  the 
transaction himself.
Mr O said he found the investigators view absurd. He said:
Ref: DRN66654982- Barclays fraud department should have phoned him to check, after the declined  
£1,702 attempted transaction;
-any transaction would  have  a receipt and the persons signature,  so he wanted a 
copy of that;
-Barclays customer service had misled  him by saying there had been two 
transactions for £700  and £900 and theyd promised to take care of it;
-anyone who tried to put through a payment for £1,702 which was declined would 
naturally then try a lower amount;
-Barclays customer service hadnt  done its work properly when it hadnt sorted out a 
refund as it had promised in 2014 or 2015.  It should  have  blocked  the card and sent 
a new one, and didnt. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulations  for Mr Os complaint are the Payment Services  Regulations  2009.  
These set out that the payment service  user (Mr O) is liable for transactions that were  
authorised, and Tesco for transactions  that werent authorised. So the issue for me to 
determine is whether  or not Mr O authorised the transactions.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive concluded that the transactions were authorised by 
Mr O, because:
-Credit card statements  were sent to Mr O on a monthly basis.  If Mr O didnt know  
about the transaction, Id have  expected  him to have complained  about  the £1,600 
debit as soon  as he received this statement, which was dated  6 November 2012. I 
recognise that Mr O said hed asked Barclays not to send  correspondence  to his 
postal address, because he was living in shared  accommodation. So Mr O might  say 
he didnt receive  the statements, though hes said the bank continued to send 
correspondence despite his request. But the fact remains  that customers  have a 
responsibility to monitor their accounts,  so Mr O needed to ensure he did that in 
some way, even if he didnt want paper statements  sent to his home. 
-Mr O made monthly payments for more  than his other spending.  For example in 
December 2012 he paid £70; in February  2013 he paid £65; and in March  2013 he 
paid £65. He hadnt made any transactions during those statement periods. So I 
consider its likely that Mr O knew he had a large  balance to pay off, as shown  on the 
November statement  but he didnt complain about it.
-When evidence conflicts,  I make my decision on what I thinks most  likely to have 
happened. Here, I think its likely that Mr O didnt talk to Barclays about the £1,600 
until 2018. If hed spoken to the bank about the transaction  in 2014 or 2015, as he 
said, I think its reasonable to expect  him to have  checked  that the bank had sorted 
out the transaction for a large amount  of money.  And if hed asked for a new card 
and PIN at that point, Id expect him to have  chased when that didnt arrive. So I think 
its likely  that the first discussion between Mr O and Barclays was in 2018.
-Mr Os card and PIN were used  for the transaction.  Banks  and credit  card firms  dont 
have to keep transaction  slips indefinitely, and I wouldnt expect the original 17 
October 2012 slip to be available by 2018, as Mr O would like. But Barclays 
Ref: DRN66654983computer records show the code which indicates  a transaction which was 
authenticated by the chip in Mr Os card and his PIN. So I dont consider Mr Os card 
had been cloned. 
-I can see why Mr O said that anyone who couldnt get a transaction through for 
£1,702 would try a lower amount. But the point is that the person carrying  out the 
transaction knew that around £1,702 was what was available  in fact it was £1,701  
which had been available. For this to have  been someone other than Mr O, that 
person would have had to have not only his original  card, and knowledge of his PIN, 
but also known  pretty precisely how much was available to spend.  I find this is 
unlikely, so its most likely it was Mr O himself who authorised  it.
-Ive considered Mr Os complaint that Barclays should have phoned him to check, 
when the attempted transaction for £1,702  was declined. Banks do make  phone calls 
when they think  a transaction may be suspect. But no system is perfect  and they 
cant pick up every suspect transaction. And I note that Mr O had only had his 
account for a month. Certainly the first four transactions had been for under £100 
each, but that was in just the first month.  So there was no established spending  
pattern with which the £1,600 transaction conflicted.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely  than not that Mr O authorised  
the transaction, and I dont require Barclays to reimburse him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6665498