K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (JPM) in 
relation to the closure of his bank account.
Mr W is represented in this complaint by his sister.  But for ease of reading Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
background
Due to a serious illness many years  ago, Mr W is unable to provide a consistent signature on 
documents. 
Mr W says he was caused considerable distress  and inconvenience by JPM when he 
attempted to close his account. In particular,  he says he visited his local branch where he 
was known, accompanied by his representative and with his passport as identification. As a 
result he understood  that his account would then be closed, but this didnt happen. 
Mr Ws representative says she was advised  in a phone call with JPM that she should  get 
the manager of the care home where Mr W now resides to countersign  his account closure 
request form, to confirm  his identity. But the closure request was still rejected  by JPM.
Our investigator thought Mr Ws complaint should  be upheld.  The investigator said the 
testimony given by Mr Ws representative was plausible. He said it was likely she was given 
the advice by JPMs customer services for the care home manager to countersign the 
closure paperwork, as he didnt  think she wouldve arranged this without it being suggested.
The investigator also found Mr Ws representatives  testimony plausible with regard to the 
visit to the local branch  with identification. He said it wouldve been reasonable to expect the 
branch to have  confirmed  that theyd identified Mr W when they took his closure instruction, 
thereby avoiding any further issues.  
So, the investigator thought JPM should  pay Mr W £150 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result of its poor handling of the matter.
JPM disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It said the closure  forms sent to it by     
Mr W contain three different signatures.  It also said his complaint letters dated 22 February  
and 24 March 2019 may have been  sent to the wrong place as it hadnt received  them.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint and to require JPM to pay him £150 compensation. 
Ill explain  why.
Financial businesses have a duty to safeguard money belonging to customers  by verifying 
that withdrawal and account closure  requests are genuine and have  been  made  by the 
account holder.  
Ref: DRN60413492I see Mr W is unable  to write his signature  clearly  and consistently, due to the long term 
consequences of a very serious illness he experienced many years  ago. And I see this 
resulted in him submitting  account closure  forms bearing a signature  that didnt match the 
records held by JPM.
But I also see Mr Ws representative took various steps to address this issue in an attempt to 
facilitate the closure  of his account.  In particular, the representative has explained  that she 
accompanied Mr W to his local branch where  he was known to staff with his passport as 
identification. And as a result she says Mr W understood  that his account would then be 
closed, but this didnt happen.  
I note JPM hasnt denied  that this visit took place. And, given  the purpose of the visit I think  it 
would have been reasonable to expect the branch staff to have verified  Mr Ws account 
closure application, thereby sparing him further  inconvenience.
I see Mr Ws representative has also told us she contacted JPMs customer services about  
the situation and was advised to arrange for the care home manager where Mr W was 
residing to countersign  the closure  paperwork.  
Again I cant see that JPM has denied  this advice was given and I think it is unlikely Mr Ws 
representative would have taken these steps unless shed been advised to do so by JPM.
Im pleased to see that Mr Ws account  was eventually closed when his representatives 
appointment as his attorney was completed  and sent to JPM. But I think  he was caused  
avoidable distress  and inconvenience  in the meantime, for which  its reasonable for me to 
require JPM to pay him £150 compensation.
I acknowledge JPM has said Mr Ws complaint  letters dated 22 February  and 24 March 2019 
may have  been  sent to the wrong place as it didnt receive them  at the time.  
But I note we told JPM this service had received a complaint  about  the matter  in September  
2019 and it has since sent us several emails about  the matter.  So, Im satisfied it has been  
able to respond in detail  to the substance of Mr Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN60413493my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint and order J.P. Morgan Europe Limited to pay 
£150 compensation to Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6041349