K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way that (the company now known as) 
Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with their home insurance claim for storm damage.
background
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs M made a claim to Fairmead following storm damage to their 
property which affected the ensuite  bathroom and downstairs areas. Fairmead  sent out a 
loss adjuster who completed a report on the damage in late September  2018. A strip out was 
completed by Fairmeads contractors. Mr and Mrs M wanted a cash  settlement so they could 
have their own preferred  contractors complete  the repairs. Fairmeads contractors drew up a 
schedule of work but Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the amount Fairmead was prepared 
to pay. They  asked for a breakdown but Fairmead said this couldnt be supplied as it was 
commercially sensitive.  
Mr and Mrs M had a further issue with the tiles in the ensuite as Fairmead  only agreed to 
pay for those below a border as it said the ones  above  were undamaged. They pointed out 
that there  were holes  in the tiles where the old shower screen and shower tray were  
removed. And that it wasnt possible for them to buy a new screen and try to fit in to the 
same area. Fairmead said nevertheless the tiles werent damaged  as a result of the claim.  It 
pointed out that the policy  had an exclusion for matching sets. So it wouldnt pay for the tiles 
above the border that had holes in them. It offered to arrange for the holes to be filled but 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with that.
Mr and Mrs M also were  upset at the way they were  spoken to by one of the loss adjuster 
team and felt they were bullied and intimidated by him.
Fairmead paid £300  compensation for the delays  encountered during the process. It 
apologised and said it wasnt its intention to cause any distress. It said it had given feedback  
to its suppliers.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Fairmead  had paid a reasonable 
amount of compensation. She didnt recommend that it make any other  payment.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree, they didnt think the level of compensation paid was adequate for 
the way they were  treated.  They  particularly  pointed that they werent  aware of the matching 
sets exclusion in the policy and that they werent told they could have had cover for 
matching sets on payment of a higher premium.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Fairmead  should  make a 
contribution to the tiles above  the border that would have needed to be replaced or repaired 
because the shower  that was removed couldnt be replaced with one in the same  place.  I 
said it should make a contribution of £150.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my proposed decision.
Fairmead didnt accept the proposed  award.  It said it had said it would expect that a like-for-
like replacement would not require the other tiles to be damaged  and it would not have 
expected to cover this cost if its own contractors were to carry out the works. Because 
Mr and Mrs M were  opting for a re-design,  it would mean that those tiles would be 
damaged/stripped as part of the non-claim related works they were carrying  out. So it may 
Ref: DRN63578692be a little unfair for it to be asked to cover work  it would not have done  to repair  in this 
instance. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made  the following provisional  findings:
settlement
Mr and Mrs M complained that the settlement was insufficient for them  to complete the 
necessary repairs. They  were sent a schedule of works and were  told what  the pay-out 
offered was, but despite a number  of requests Fairmead wouldnt supply them  with an 
itemised breakdown.
Fairmead wont disclose  its costed schedule of work for reasons of commercial sensitivity. I 
appreciate that that is frustrating for Mr and Mrs M. In those circumstances the business will 
release details to this service but only on the basis that we keep it confidential. Insurers  can 
often carry out work cheaper than an individual instructing a private contractor, and the 
policy allows  for payment  to be made  of no more  than it would cost it to pay its suppliers. 
Comparing the two quotes there are some items on Mr and Mrs Ms quote  which  Fairmead 
has said is not covered  by the policy. I believe they accept this 
For understandable  reasons Mr and Mrs M have told us they had the bathroom remodelled  
so as to prevent a recurrence of the problem of the water coming in in the way it did. The 
policy generally only covers damage so any preventative work  would  have to be carried  out 
at the policyholders  expense. So though I understand they only accepted  the settlement so 
they could get on with the work overall I dont think Fairmead has been unfair  in what  it paid 
Mr and Mrs M to settle the work covered under the policy.
bathroom tiles
Fairmead paid for the tiling below a run of border tiles on the bathroom wall. It wouldnt 
however pay for the tiles on the wall above  that border, as it said they werent damaged.  
When the shower cubicle  was removed this left holes in the wall and, as the old shower  
cubicle was broken  up in the process,  Mr and Mrs M couldnt get a new one to fit in the same 
holes. So they thought  Fairmead should pay for the tiling to be redone. 
Fairmead pointed  out that there  was an exclusion in the policy regarding matching sets 
whereby it wont pay for undamaged items which are part of a set. As the tiles above  and 
below the border were the same they did form part of a set. Fairmead did tell Mr and Mrs M 
that it would  consider paying for the tiles if they could prove they couldnt  get a shower  
cubicle to fit or cover up those holes. As it is they decided to have all the tiles replaced 
anyway.
Ref: DRN63578693Our general  view, whether or not theres  an exclusion for it in the policy, is that we will 
always consider whether  it would be fair for the consumer to be compensated either for the 
inability to get a match or as a contribution towards replacing the whole set. Such a payment  
could be up to 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged parts  of a set. Here Fairmead 
offered to have the holes filled expertly so they wouldnt be visible.  It also suggested that it 
would consider paying for the tiles with holes in if Mr and Mrs M couldnt get a shower  
cubicle that covered the holes. I dont  however  think it was reasonable to expect  them to 
prove this. So Im inclined to think that Fairmead  should contribute  part of the cost of the 
undamaged (by the claim) tiles.
Given that Mr and Mrs M have chosen  to remodel their bathroom so were likely to replace  all 
the tiles, I think a fair contribution by Fairmead would be £150.  I havent  carried out a 
detailed calculation as its a compensatory payment rather  than the cost of replacing or 
repairing the tiles.
As for Mr and Mrs Ms point about  being  unaware of the exclusion, I dont think its one that 
needed to be drawn to their attention when buying the policy. Fairmead offered alternative 
policies with matching sets cover and this was made  clear  on their website  so I dont think 
the policy was missold. Mr M has made the point that when he bought the policy  online in 
2011 this information may not have  been available. I dont know  if thats the case but the 
renewal documents  ask policyholders to review their cover  to check  if its still suitable for 
their needs.  
  
bullying
Mr and Mrs M both feel they were bullied and intimidated by one of the claims handlers at 
the loss adjusters, in a couple of phone calls. Those calls relate to the bathroom tiles and 
having listened to them the claim handler  does seem to be somewhat  confrontational. I cant 
say however that it was intentional  bullying or intimidation. I think both Mr and Mrs M were 
able to put their points  across but I can understand  if they felt uneasy. Ultimately its a matter 
for Fairmead  to address  and provide  feedback to the loss adjusters. It has apologised if 
Mr and Mrs M felt distressed and I think that this and the payment  of compensation has fairly  
addressed this.
compensation
Fairmead has paid £300  compensation for the delays in the claim handling and because 
Mr and Mrs M felt distressed. I cant say that any delays were  the main  issue  though 
Mr and Mrs M did complain about  not being  able to contact the claims handler  dealing with 
their claim. I understand also that they were given  conflicting information about the tiling.  But 
overall I think the payment was fair and reasonable.
Ive noted Fairmeads  comments, but I stand  by my provisional findings. The effect of those 
findings was that because  the shower had to be moved Mr and Mrs M, as they opted for a 
cash settlement would have had to pay for the tiles above the border to be repaired or 
replaced. As the cash settlement  didnt include any payment for those tiles I think it was 
reasonable for a compensatory award  to be paid. The fact that they chose to replace all the 
tiles was a matter for them  and the compensation payment can be put towards  that. As I 
pointed out in my provisional findings the payment is compensatory  rather than reflecting  the 
actual cost of those tiles.
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN63578694my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay to 
Mr and Mrs M £150 as compensation for the bathroom tiles.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6357869