K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that PDL Finance  Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, was irresponsible  to give 
her two instalment  loans.
background
Between May 2015 and January 2016 Miss C took two loans from Mr Lender. Both were 
instalment loans as follows:
loan 
numberdate taken amount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsrepayment amounts
1 May 2014 £250 3 £129.33, £123.33 & £103.34  
2 January 2016 £250 3 £149.33, £122  & £104.01
Miss C says that Mr Lender should not have  lent to her because she couldnt afford the 
repayments. These took so much from her salary that she had to borrow from other lenders, 
which led her into a spiral of debt. She says that she also had defaults showing on her credit 
history.
The adjudicator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld. He thought  that Mr Lender had 
carried out enough checks before agreeing to lend to Miss C and these  checks  showed she 
had enough disposable income to meet the repayments.
Miss C didnt agree. She said, in summary,  that her credit file was very poor at the time and 
she played down  her outgoings to help her secure the loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. Before  agreeing to lend to Miss C, it had to 
check that she could  afford to make the repayments without it adversely impacting on her 
financial situation. It had to gather enough  information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.  
The guidance and rules dont set out compulsory checks but they do list a number of things  
a lender might wish to take into account before agreeing  to lend. But any checks need  to be 
proportionate and should take into account a number of things, including  things such  as how 
much is being lent and when whats being  borrowed is due to be repaid.
Miss C was given loans where  there  was an expectation shed repay what shed borrowed 
plus the interest due over three monthly  repayments. The maximum monthly amount over 
both loans was £149.33. As a result, the checks Mr Lender carried out had to provide 
enough for it to be able to understand whether Miss C could afford to make all of these 
payments when they fell due. 
Mr Lender says that it checked Miss Cs income  when  she asked for the loan and asked her 
for a copy  of a payslip.  This showed she was earning £1,800 per month. It asked about her 
normal monthly expenditure and found  that she had a disposable monthly  income of more  
Ref: DRN64210562than £600. It also carried out a credit  check and this showed no evidence  of an IVA or 
bankruptcy. Based on this information  Mr Lender  concluded that Miss C could afford  the 
monthly repayments as the highest  instalment was £149.33.
Given the size of the loans in relation to Miss Cs income, I consider the checks  Mr Lender 
did were proportionate. And these checks showed  that the loans were affordable. So given 
the information Mr Lender  had, I think its decision  to lend was reasonable.
Miss C has said that her finances werent as healthy  as Ive described above.  But that wasnt 
the information that she provided to Mr Lender  when she was asked about  her financial 
position. She also thinks that Mr Lenders  credit checks  should  have shown  that she had 
defaulted on previous borrowing. Mr Lender  wasnt required to complete credit  checks and 
the credit  scoring  it did before it lent to Miss C didnt show a bad score.  So I dont think Mr 
Lender did anything  wrong in giving these loans to Miss C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6421056