K821x#15complaint
Mr L says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr L between December 
2016 and April 2017. Mr L first borrowed £350  to be repaid in six monthly instalments of 
£102.32. Three weeks after repaying  this, Mr L borrowed £1,000 to be repaid  in six monthly 
instalments of £311.03. From what I can see, an amount  remains  outstanding for this loan.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ls complaint  in part and thought loan two shouldnt have been  
given. MYJAR disagreed  and so the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN66950922This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
MYJAR asked Mr L for information about his income and expenditure and it carried  out credit 
checks. Mr L said his monthly  income was £2,000. From the information Mr L provided and 
the credit  reports MYJAR examined, Mr Ls monthly  expenditure  on his credit commitments 
and living  expenses for loan one was about  £1,150. But for loan two, Mr L had other recent  
loans totalling  £950.  
For loan one, given  the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Ls circumstances at the 
time and his history  with MYJAR, I dont  think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt 
anything in the information Mr L provided or the information MYJAR shouldve  been aware 
of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what Mr L was saying. So I 
cant say it was wrong for MYJAR to have provided loan one.
As our adjudicator explained, MYJARs affordability  check for loan two showed  that Mr L was 
having problems  managing his money. This was because he had significant  debt 
repayments to make  to other lenders. These  were  evident in MYJARs own checks. So I 
think MYJAR should have  realised  that Mr L would be unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
And so I think it was wrong  to provide it and it should put things right.  
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
buy back the outstanding debt or liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
listed below;
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loan two and waive any still outstanding;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
this refund should be offset against the principal Mr L still owes  and an affordable  
repayment plan agreed to clear the balance;
remove any negative information  about loan two from Mr Ls credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN66950923my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ls complaint. I 
require MYJAR Limited to pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6695092