K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance, 
(PPI), policy.
background
Mrs J bought the monthly-premium PPPI by post in 2002, at the same  time as taking out a
credit card. The premiums  were  79 pence a month for each £100 outstanding on Mrs Js 
credit card account. And following a successful claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment the policy would have paid 10% of her balance  each  month for up to 12
months.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. Mrs J disagreed
with the adjudicators view so the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about sales  of PPI on our website. Ive
followed this in making my decision.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think that Mrs J knew that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. I say 
this because Ive seen her signed  credit card application form. Apart from Mrs Js 
name and address,  the form has been filled in by hand. It has a section  headed 
Optional Benefits. I can see that there  is a handwritten  tick in the box requesting the 
PPI. (In contrast, the box requesting card protection has been left blank.)
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J. So it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. This means that it was up to Mrs J to decide for herself if she wanted  
the policy, based on her circumstances  at the time. 
Its likely  that Barclays  didnt give Mrs J clear, fair and not-misleading information 
about the PPI as it ought to have  done.  But Mrs J was eligible for the PPI and she 
wasnt caught by any of the policys main  restrictions and limitations - such as those 
affecting someone with a pre-existing  medical condition. And the policy  was 
competitively priced by reference  to other policies  available in the market at the time 
and had a reasonable  benefit. So I dont think that better information would have 
stopped Mrs J buying the PPI. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs J about that. Because Barclays didnt  tell Mrs J, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN62071692To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that the PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  so 
Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6207169