K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the PPI at a meeting  in 2002.  From  what Halifax has told us, its not clear  
whether Mrs W was applying for a mortgage with Halifax at the time - but Halifax is clear  that 
no Halifax mortgage went ahead. Mrs W has told us of having  a mortgage from elsewhere.
The PPI was part of a packaged  plan.  Subject  to its exclusions and limitations,  Mrs Ws 
policy provided life and critical illness cover (which  paid lump sum benefits) as well as 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. For a successful disability or unemployment 
claim, from what  Halifax has told us the policy initially offered to pay, for a cost of £15.95  a 
month, a benefit of £265 a month for up to 24 months to help with mortgage related costs.
Mrs W has told us she was employed at the time of sale as a dental nurse, had been  there  
three years and was entitled to less than 12 but at least  six months full sick pay and, aside 
from this and the policy benefits, didnt  have any other means  with which  to make mortgage 
payments if she couldnt work. I think it likely she was also entitled to statutory redundancy 
pay at least. From what Mrs W has told us, at the time of sale she was in good health  and 
hadnt had any health issues. 
Halifax has told us Mrs W didnt take a mortgage  with Halifax  and Ive seen nothing to 
show otherwise. Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  
on her behalf. I will not restate  them all here, but I have read and considered them  all 
carefully. In summary,  Mrs Ws representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt have taken the 
PPI and the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs Ws representatives  believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Halifax should have told Mrs W about  the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs W and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN65924052The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Halifax made no mortgage loan, or any other  type of lending,  linked to the policy,  so no such  
credit agreement was in force in 2008  and the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A 
of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act 
and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about  the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable here. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN65924053The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ws 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  for her, given her needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the PPI, including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the PPI and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN65924054did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs W has said she was not told about it 
and has said it was added without her knowledge  or consent.
Ive carefully considered  all Mrs W has said. No documentation from the sale is available  
now but Mrs W and Halifax agree the sale took place in a branch. From what  we know of the 
branch paperwork  used by Halifax at the time to sell policies  like this, I think it was normally 
made clear the PPI was optional. In this case Mrs W didnt take a loan with Halifax, just the 
policy - so I think it likely  she wouldve been aware she was taking the policy and aware also 
that it was not part of a mortgage  package or a mortgage condition imposed by Halifax. Also, 
from what I know of these  policies, each of the unemployment, disability, life and critical 
illness elements could usually be requested or turned down separately. Ive also nothing to 
make me think Mrs W was pressured into taking the PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs W knew  the PPI was optional, 
agreed to take it and did so without undue pressure. But it would be understandable if Mrs W 
didnt recall all this now given the time that has passed since then.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says advice was provided during this sale. Mrs W has said she cant  recall whether 
advice was given  or not. But if Halifax did give advice, Halifax  had to do more.  With all this in 
mind, I think  its fair to proceed on the basis that Halifax  gave advice.  This means  Halifax  
had to advise  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the PPI was 
appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mrs W. It seems  she cant remember clearly  what happened,  as far as 
any advice is concerned, and there is no record of exactly what  Halifax discussed in relation 
to the PPI. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during  a meeting. System notes suggest 
Halifax had some information to the effect that Mrs W wasnt  expecting  any impending 
unemployment, worked full time and answered no to questions about  having health issues.  
But I dont know what was asked  exactly or how or when this information  was first collected. 
What I have doesnt show that Halifax  did enough,  before Mrs W took the PPI, to establish it 
was a suitable recommendation and that Mrs W wouldnt be caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  mightve meant the PPI didnt fully meet her needs.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Mrs W given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not it was ultimately suitable for her. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs W met the eligibility criteria for the PPI and the monthly cost appears to have  been  
affordable for her.
Ref: DRN65924055-Mrs W had a need for the PPI  from what shes told us, even allowing for her work sick 
pay and redundancy benefits,  shed suffer a reduction in income if for an extended 
period she couldnt  work due to sickness or unemployment. The PPI benefit wouldve 
helped her manage the consequences in those situations.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs W. There was 
nothing about  Mrs Ws employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult  for 
her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions  that 
couldve affected her ability to claim.
-The PPI would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 months for each claim and for 
disability would only pay were  Mrs W unable to do her own or any similar job and unable  
to do any work  her experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified  her to do. But it 
still gave valuable cover  in Mrs Ws circumstances given the loss of income  she could 
suffer were she unable to work  for a while due to disability  or redundancy, the fact it 
protected the mortgage payments on her home and the potential consequences were  
Mrs W to have become unable to make  repayments on loans secured against  her house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the PPI to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the PPI.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a broad description of what the PPI 
was intended  to cover (that is, it would help protect her mortgage related  payments if she 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think it unlikely Mrs W wouldve taken the 
PPI without any sense  of what it was for and of how much the premium might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs W agreed  to take the PPI. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened and while  Im 
satisfied the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W, Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the PPI it was recommending in a way that was fair and 
reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs W all the information she needed 
about the PPI to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN65924056-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs W? To what extent  did she suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold the PPI to Mrs W. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs W suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would have still 
taken the PPI, had Halifax  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Mrs W, I have found the PPI was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In those circumstances  it seems to me that whether  or not Mrs W has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mrs W would  have acted differently or whether  she would have taken  the PPI in any event.
Mrs W says she wouldnt  have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the insurance, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs W had some interest in taking PPI. By this I mean  
when Halifax offered the PPI or advised her there was a suitable insurance she could buy 
that would  protect  her mortgage payments were she unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that insurance.  
But Mrs W made that decision  based  on incomplete  information, meaning what she thought  
she was getting  is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her.
Ref: DRN65924057Although I consider it more likely than not Mrs W knew  she would have to pay something for 
the PPI, I dont have  anything  to show that Halifax told her the exact premium at the point 
she applied. Having said that, I think it unlikely Mrs W wouldve taken the PPI without having 
some idea of the approximate cost. Also if, when it started or when she started  to pay for it, 
the cost had been significantly  different to what shed expected at the sale,  Mrs W mightve  
raised that with Halifax at that time, or reconsidered  her decision. Overall,  Im not persuaded 
Mrs W would  have found the cost unacceptable  if she had been given the exact figure  during  
the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Ive seen nothing to show that Halifax told Mrs W exactly what shed get in the 
event she made a successful claim. But I think it unlikely Mrs W wouldve taken the policy 
without some idea of what benefit it would pay, I think  it likely  she understood the purpose of 
the benefit was to help cover mortgage related  costs  and Ive seen nothing to suggest she 
had expectations  about the monthly  benefit  amount that were  significantly different to what 
the PPI wouldve actually paid. With all this in mind,  Im not persuaded Mrs Ws expectations 
about the PPI benefit amount and the actual  position  were  significantly different.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
For PPI applications  not made with the mortgage application or not within  6 weeks  of the 
mortgage completion, the PPI would exclude claims relating  to health issues  recurring 
within 12 months of the policy start if the issue was a chronic  or continuing issue  Mrs W 
knew of at the start or an issue that in the 12 months before the start was diagnosed by 
or had advice or treatment suggested or investigations started  by a medical practitioner 
or for which significant and substantive symptoms were experienced; 
The PPI contained  limitations on claims relating to back and mental  health  conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The PPI limited, and in some situations excluded,  unemployment  cover  if Mrs W was not 
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for disability, Mrs W be unable  to do her own or any 
similar job and unable to do any work her experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified her to do;
The PPI protected  payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the PPI wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the PPI wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs W was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Also, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mrs W wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  she didnt have any existing health issues  and was in permanent 
employment. So, I think she still had some good  reasons  to take the PPI.
Ref: DRN65924058I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to Mrs W 
from taking the PPI, Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim disability if she were  unable to do her own or any 
similar job and unable to do any work her experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified her to do, it might have played  into her thinking about  what  to do. And I accept it 
may have  given her pause for thought   although,  given Mrs Ws circumstances, on balance 
I think she wouldve still been  interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs W any claim she made would be limited  to 24 months. This 
may have  differed from what  she expected  and mightve hoped  for  but Mrs W wouldnt 
have received sick pay of full pay for even 12 months and her redundancy entitlement  was 
also likely significantly  less than 12 months income. In those circumstances, I consider it 
likely she wouldve still thought PPI that paid up to 24 monthly  benefit  payments would be of 
benefit and help her manage the consequences  if she couldnt work  in the circumstances it 
covered. The PPI allowed multiple claims  and could reduce her outgoings, helping ensure 
her home wasnt placed at risk and potentially leaving  her sick pay or redundancy pay free 
for other uses at what could be a difficult time if Mrs W were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs W wouldve still taken the PPI. It was suitable for her, sufficiently close  to what  its 
likely she thought she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs W wouldve  taken  the PPI in any 
event, notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs W 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN65924059Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the PPI. I am not persuaded by these  arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the PPI. Thats because, while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken  it, 
Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not she wouldve still taken the PPI 
had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the PPI she was buying.  
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mrs W compensation, as that would  put her in a better position than she 
wouldve been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mrs W thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it described 
it. While I accept there is a possibility a court might  conclude  some of Halifaxs statements 
misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why Halifax  failed  to act fairly and 
reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided   but 
because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs W, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2002 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6592405