K821x#15complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc charged her a second excess  for 
a second subsidence claim under her home insurance policy.  Mrs H is represented by her 
daughter Mrs B but for this decision Ill refer to Mrs H throughout.
background
Mrs H had a subsidence  claim  back in 2000 that was dealt with at the time by RSA and a 
policy excess of £1,000 was applied to the claim. Unfortunately  a further claim occurred in 
2008 and RSA settled this claim  with cash. The cash settlement had a further £1,000 excess  
deducted from the final amount paid to Mrs H. When her daughter  reviewed the claim she 
and Mrs H didnt accept  this. When Mrs H made the second claim shed been  told that the 
damage was a continuation of the original claim and that no further excess would be 
charged. Mrs H brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said the engineer had confirmed that new cracks 
had appeared  in the house along  with further  damage to areas previously affected. Our 
investigator noted reports from RSAs experts (F) said there were poor ground conditions, 
subterranean water flow and inadequate bearing  capacity of the foundations. F said the 
second claim was a continuation of the previous  2000 claim and our investigator accepted 
this. RSA said a further review was carried out and it was decided this was a new claim. But 
our investigator said he couldnt see any evidence of this. He said all the expert evidence  
said it was a continuation of the previous 2000 claim. He concluded that the second claim 
should be considered a continuation of the previous claim and RSA should  refund the 
£1,000 excess  with 8% simple interest per year.
RSA didnt accept  this and asked for the complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the original  subsidence claim in 2000  drains  were repaired in an attempt to deal with 
the cause of damage. Following the 2008  claim RSA appointed F and it said damage had 
reoccurred in the places it had during the 2000 claim along with new damage in other parts 
of the home. F said the drains werent  the cause of the damage and referred to a 
subterranean water flow, along with poor ground  and bearing  capacity  of the foundations. 
Even though  the drains from the previous claim had been fixed  it said this second 2008  
claim was a continuation of the previous 2000  claim. The problem was still ongoing and it 
appears to me that the subterranean water  flow wasnt  dealt with (or potentially picked up) 
during the first claim.
Within the engineers report from F it said:
UPDATE FOLLOWING COMPLETION OF SITE  INVESTIGATION
The claim is a reoccurrence of damage  from a claim in 2000  where  drains were deemed  to 
be the cause and were  rectified with superstructure repairs.
Ref: DRN65388172In claim correspondence  to Mrs H, F said as the damage is considered to be a continuation 
of the previous claim, there will be no excess applicable.
I think all of this detail  is clear.
However, RSA and F said that a further review of the 2008 claim took place  in 2009. In this 
review although  damage  had reoccurred  in areas  of the house as it had also happened in 
new areas the excess should apply to this claim. Despite confirming that this was relayed to 
Mrs H I can see no record of this and in the file F said to RSA that it was unable to locate  
letter to policyholder to advise them of the amendment. So apart from the deduction made  
at the point of cash settlement, theres  no confirmation that Mrs H was made aware that the 
excess would be reclaimed by RSA until 2012  when the claim was settled minus  the £1,000 
excess.
On further investigation of this 2009 review  RSA has said in the final claim report file that F 
clarified that if the damage is in a new area even if its the same cause a separate excess 
would apply and there is no timescale  for this. I think this is a long time after the review and 
it doesnt provide  any solid evidence. Also I find it particularly  hard to accept  the even, if its 
the same  cause  argument. This suggests  theres a potential benefit to an insurer  not doing  
a claim repair  to a lasting and effective standard. If a further claim needed to be made due to 
failed repairs it suggests an insurer would be able to charge the customer  a further excess 
for the work  to be done again. I think thats  unfair  and unreasonable.  
I havent seen  any valid reason why RSA and F moved away from the acceptance  that the 
second claim was a continuation of the first. The engineers reports show  an accepted  link 
between the claims and this is the strongest evidence  provided. Although  RSA say Mrs H 
didnt question them when  they deducted  the excess in 2012 I dont think  thats  fair. It had 
told Mrs H she wouldnt be subject to the excess, cant show that it wrote to her to change 
that decision and then just deducted  it from her settlement years later. It has been  pointed 
out that Mrs H was in her mid-90s  by this point. So I dont think  RSA acted reasonably  when 
it deducted the second excess. I think it should  refund  the £1,000 excess plus 8% simple 
interest.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
refund  the £1,000 excess charged for the second claim made in 2008;
add simple interest at 8%* per year from date of the deduction from the claim settlement 
to the date of settlement.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mrs H a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Ref: DRN65388173John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6538817