K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Old Mutual  Wealth Life Assurance Limited  (previously Skandia Life) 
mis-sold a reviewable whole of life (WOL) plan to her and her late husband because  it 
misrepresented the terms of the contract.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. I didnt uphold the complaint and in short  made the following findings:
The statements in the various documents Mrs R was given at the time of sale made 
clear that although the plan should the cover she and her husband  wanted  through 
out their lives, that was dependent on assumptions about growth.
I understood why Mrs R may have thought the premium wouldnt need to increase 
but I thought it was clear this wasnt guaranteed and I didnt think the statements 
made were misleading.
The assumptions about growth  were based  on financial markets having  a general 
upward trend for many  years and no one foresaw the subsequent  financial  crises.
The terms and conditions mad clear the only guarantee of no increase to premium 
was in the first 10 years.
Mrs R had said the plan costings had increased  and that OMW had dipped into the 
fund but costs of life cover increase as people age and the purpose  of the fund is to 
help pay those increased costs when the premium isnt enough.
I gave both parties of responding and providing any more information or evidence  they 
wanted me to consider before making  my final decision. OMW didnt provide any response. 
Mrs R said that she was disappointed in my decision. She said she feels let down and that 
she cannot believe anything unless the word  guarantee is there.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any information that would lead me to change the findings in my 
provisional decision. In short I dont think the documentation OMW provided about the plan 
was misleading  and it didnt guarantee the premium wouldnt need  to increase.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61741412COPY PROVISIONSL DECISION
complaint
Mrs R complains that Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited (previously Skandia Life) mis-sold  a 
reviewable whole of life (WOL) plan to her and her late husband because  it misrepresented the terms 
of the contract.
background
Mrs R and the late Mr R took out a unit-linked whole of life plan in 1996 on advice from their financial 
adviser. The plan provided cover of £200,000 at a premium  of £310. It included  an automatic increase 
option allowing Mrs R and Mr R to increase the sum assured each year. They did this for the first five 
years so that the sum assured increased to just over £274,000 and the premium to £425. 
The cover  and premium have remained  the same since 2001.  But on review in 2016 Mrs R and Mr R 
were told that £654 each  month  needed to be paid for the sum assured to remain  at the same level 
for the next five years.  They didnt increase  their premium payment at the time. 
In 2018 the plan was reviewed and this indicated  the current premium  would only continue to meet 
the cost of providing the cover for two more years. The options Mrs R and Mr R were given included 
increasing the premium  to £1,273 each month to keep  the sum assured  the same for the next five 
years or reducing the cover to £151,000 and keep the premium  the same for the next five years.
The review letter also provided  information about what premium OMW thought  would  be payable in 
the following years based on the charges and a reasonable rate of growth. This indicated that if Mrs R 
and Mr R didnt increase  the premium in light of the review the premium payable in 2020  would be 
£2,239 and continue  to significantly increase every  five years after that.
This led Mrs R to complain to OMW. In response it explained how the plan worked and that the cost 
of cover was more than the premium as from June 2011 with the excess cost being  taken from the 
fund value that had built up. It said that Mrs R and Mr R hadnt increased their premium since 2001 
and that this is partly  why such a large increase will be needed in 2020 if nothing is done before that.
OMW said that the plan had been run in accordance  with the terms and conditions so it wasnt 
upholding the complaint.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He said the plan 
had been sold to Mrs R and Mr R by their financial adviser who had the responsibility of checking it 
was suitable for them. He referred  to another decision by our service involving  a complaint against 
OMW about a whole of life plan which  he thought was very similar to Mrs Rs complaint and based on 
that decision didnt think OMW had done anything wrong.
Mrs R didnt agree with the adjudicator.  She said he had missed the main  points of her complaint 
which are about the documents she was given  when the plan started. She said there were different 
types of cover you could pay for  maximum cover meant you paid a lower premium and knew this 
would go up quickly. She said the standard sum assured option meant you paid more  but the 
premium was unlikely to increase. The documents stated  the cover was projected  to last for 52 years 
for the premium they were paying.
She said the other decision  by our service that the adjudicator had referred  to wasnt the same as her 
complaint given she was told in a letter from OMW dated 6 June 1996 that the premium should  
sustain the sum assured throughout life.
Mrs R said it was clear that OMW had breached information and guidance given to her which  was 
critical to her decision to enter into a contract with it. She said that there has clearly been a change  in 
policy costings since the plan started but this is no use to policyholders who took out a plan they 
Ref: DRN61741413thought would  cover  them for life based on information provided at the time.  Mrs R also said that the 
plan did what it was supposed to do by building up a substantial cash reserve but this is no good if the 
company dips into it at will so there is nothing left after a few years.
As Mrs R didnt agree  with the adjudicator the matter has been referred  to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator referred to a previous decision by our service which he used as the basis for his 
opinion that Mrs Rs complaint shouldnt be upheld.  The decision he referred  to was one I made and 
although it is important we are consistent it is also important that we consider each complaint on its 
own facts  which is what I have done in Mrs Rs complaint.
I think  it is important to make clear that Mrs R and Mr R took out the plan based on advice they were 
given by their adviser not by OMW. So I am not considering whether OMW  gave them suitable 
advice. What I am considering is whether OMW provided  any misleading  information to Mrs R and 
Mr R which  led them to take out the plan when  they wouldnt otherwise have done so - or has acted  
unfairly in some other way.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs R and the position  she now finds herself  in with a plan that 
has now become unaffordable to her. She has said that she and her husband chose  a standard sum 
assured plan on the basis they expected the premium would  continue to provide the cover  they 
wanted throughout their lives without the need to increase  other than through the automatic increase 
option.
Mrs R has pointed to what is set out in the documents that were  provided by OMW when she and 
Mr R took out the policy in 1996.  The Key Features Document states:
Based on the current cost of life cover and investment growth of 8.25% each  year taking  account of 
charges, the life cover is projected to last for 52 years.
She has also pointed to another document which  includes details of the protection  benefits which  
explains that:
The Standard Sum Assured  is a level of cover  which  is projected to sustain throughout life based on 
our current mortality charges, assuming the values  in the underlying fund(s)  grow  at 6% each year 
including the effect of the Annual Management Charge, but excluding any underlying  fund charges.
Increased charges  or unit performance below  that assumed could result in the contribution level 
becoming inadequate to sustain the level of cover throughout life.
I have also seen  a letter from OMW  to Mrs R and Mr R dated 6 June 1996 about the basis on which  it 
would offer cover. The letter included the following statement:
The premium under the standard sum assured option should, subject to given  growth assumptions,  
sustain the sum assured throughout life.
Given these statements  her assumption that the plan would provide the cover she and Mr R wanted 
throughout their lives without having  to increase  the premium is understandable.
 
But the statements did make  clear that this was dependent  on the assumptions made  about growth. 
So although I understand  why Mrs R thought the premium wouldnt need to increase I also think  it 
was clear this wasnt guaranteed. And I dont think the various statements made  in the documents 
were misleading. 
Ref: DRN61741414The assumption that growth was going to be sufficient may now appear to have been very optimistic. 
But this will have been based on what financial markets had been doing  at the time  and the trend 
had been generally upwards for a considerable period of time in 1996.
What happened between 2001 and 2003 and the end of 2007  and beginning of 2009 - when there 
were significant drops in financial markets due to global  financial  crises - wasnt something that had 
been contemplated in 1996.
The terms  and conditions made  clear  that the only guarantee the premium wouldnt need to increase 
 accept through the annual increase option   was in the first 10 years of the plan and that after this 
the plan would be reviewed. And they also made clear that if on review the Actuary thought the 
performance of the units the plan is linked  to wasnt  enough  to maintain the sum assured  this will be 
reduced.
Mrs R has said that there has been a change in policy costings since the plan started  and that OMW 
shouldnt have just dipped into the fund that had built up.
The cost of the policy  has changed, but that is because the cost of providing life cover increases as 
people age. This has always  been the case and isnt something that OMW has introduced into the 
policy at a later stage.  Also the purpose of the fund is to help pay the increased costs of cover once 
the costs have increased to a point that the premium isnt enough to cover these. So OMW has done 
nothing wrong in dipping into the fund when  this happened  which it said was from 2011  as that is 
what the fund is for.
Mrs R says that she and her late husband have been treated very unfairly  as the premiums have 
been increased by OMW  to such an extent that policyholders are forced to cease the plan. 
I understand why she feels that way but I have seen no evidence that OMW has done  anything 
wrong.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6174141