K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC declined claims under a contents 
insurance policy and then cancelled the policy.
background
Zurich said that in 2018 Mr M made  five claims  on his contents insurance policy for damage 
to a sofa, carpets and flooring. Zurich said it settled the claim for damage to the sofa.
Zurich said the other  four claims were  made  at the same time. They were in respect  of:
a rug damaged when their son was unwell;
the hall carpet damaged by an iron burn;
stair carpet damaged by children pulling threads; and
kitchen floor damaged  by water when moving  the washing machine.
Zurich sent a loss adjuster to investigate  these claims. Mr M felt the loss adjuster was 
prejudiced against himself  and his wife. He wasnt  happy that the loss adjuster asked 
questions about  Mrs Ms finances,  since he thought the policy  was in his sole name. 
At first Zurich  declined  the four claims.  It said the cost of the damage to the rug was less 
than the excess  payable under the policy. It said the other damage was wear  and tear, which 
wasnt covered by his policy.
Mr M said after he raised a complaint with Zurich, he received  a letter  telling him it wouldnt 
be able to continue  with cover because he carried out an animal  breeding business at the 
property and it had also discovered a debt relief order against Mr M and a county court 
judgment against Mrs M. It said it wouldnt have offered  them a policy if it had been aware of 
this information  at the outset.
After Mr M and Mrs M complained to Zurich, it agreed to settle the claim for the burn 
mark to a carpet, and said this had been incorrectly declined. It also offered £350 as 
compensation for the delay in settling that claim. It said the other damage was wear  
and tear or the damage was less than the excess payable under the policy.
Mr M and Mrs M complained to this service. They were also unhappy that Zurich  had 
recorded them as having made five claims and that had caused their insurance 
premium to increase  substantially.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree, the matter  
has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, the policy was set up in the joint names  of Mr M and Mrs M. 
That means it wasnt unreasonable  in my view for Zurich to investigate Mrs Ms financial 
circumstances when  a claim had been  made under the policy.
Ref: DRN69689732Ill look at the various claims  individually. I appreciate that four claims were notified in one 
phone call and one of them wasnt  pursued because it was less than the excess. But I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Zurich to treat these as four separate  claims since  they were  in 
different parts  of the property and happened at different times. This means,  when adding  the 
sofa damage too, that there was a total of five separate claims within  a short  time. I cant  
comment as part of this complaint on the premium Mr M and Mrs M might have been quoted 
by their new insurer but I would expect this number of claims to increase their premium.
With regard to the rug I understand  Mr M and Mrs M couldnt remove  the stain satisfactorily. 
I think this can be classed  as accidental damage. But the excess  under the policy  (the 
amount of the claim payable by the policyholder) was £100  and Mr M said the cost of the rug 
was about £45. So Zurich was entitled not to pay anything in respect of this claim.
As Zurich has now accepted the claim for damage  to the hall carpet, I dont need to consider 
that further. I can understand that it would have been upsetting  for Mr M and Mrs M that this 
claim was unfairly declined at first because the loss adjuster thought the carpet  had been 
beyond economic repair when the damage happened. But I think  the sum of £350 offered by 
Zurich is fair and reasonable to compensate them for the trouble and upset caused by this.
Mr M told Zurich  the stair carpet had been damaged by the children pulling threads in it over 
a period of time. Mr M and Mrs Ms policy defines  accidental damage as damage thats 
sudden and unexpected . Although I appreciate  the children didnt deliberately  cause 
damage to the carpet, I cant say that the damage  falls within  the definition  of accidental 
damage in their policy. The damage happened  gradually rather than suddenly  and their 
policy excludes gradual damage. So I think Zurich acted fairly in declining the claim  for this 
carpet.
Zurich doesnt  dispute that the laminate flooring in the kitchen is damaged  and I can see that 
myself from photos. Zurich said the laminate flooring had already been damaged before any 
damage caused by water  from the washing machine. I think  this is likely to be the case since 
the damage isnt limited  to one particular area. I note Mr M told Zurich  it had been gradually 
damaged by his wife cleaning it with a wet mop.  On the basis  that the flooring was probably  
already damaged, I dont think it was unreasonable for Zurich to say that Mr M and Mrs M 
hadnt suffered  any financial loss by any further damage caused by water from the washing 
machine. So I think  it was entitled to decline this claim.
Its not Mr M and Mrs Ms fault that Zurich didnt  know about their financial history  when they 
took out their policy. It seems their broker never asked them for the information which  it 
knew Zurich wanted.  I cant  blame  Zurich  for that. Its shown that it wouldnt have offered a 
policy to Mr M and Mrs M if it had known about  that or the business  Mr M carried out from 
home occasionally.  I think  it acted reasonably in the circumstances by giving notice that it 
wouldnt continue with Mr M and Mrs Ms cover.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020.
Ref: DRN69689733Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6968973