K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed  to prevent him from becoming  a victim of a 
scam and losing £4,500 from his bank account with HSBC.
HSBC says theyre not liable for the loss because Mr B had authorised the payment and 
they had no reason to suspect there was an issue. Theyve also said that any intervention  on 
their part wouldve likely  made  no difference as Mr B thought he was making a payment to a 
government grant company.
my findings
Upon reading  all the available evidence and arguments, I have concluded that the fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances,  would be to uphold this complaint for the 
following reasons:
1.It is common ground that Mr B authorised  the payment of £4,500 in April 2017. He was 
sent an unsolicited  email by fraudsters claiming to be a company offering a government 
business grant. They said it required an application  to be completed upon  which, if 
successful, the applicant would need to contribute 30% of the grants value  upfront. Mr B 
applied and was told he was eligible for a grant  of £15,000, so he paid £4,500 from the 
joint HSBC account to a foreign account and was told his grant would be deposited on to 
a pre-paid credit card. After the money had been transferred, Mr B failed to receive any 
funds and obtained no response  from the grant company, which  he later realised was a 
sham after making  further enquiries.  
2.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr B was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, 
although he did not intend the money  to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment Service 
Regulations 2009 (in force at the relevant time), and the terms and conditions  of his 
account, Mr B is presumed  liable  for the loss in the first instance.
3.HSBC have said that it would result  in significant  customer detriment if they were 
required to intervene in all such transactions as it would hold up vast numbers of 
payments each day. Theyve also said the payment of £4,500  is itself relatively  modest 
and would not have flagged as sufficiently suspicious to amount  to reasonable grounds 
for stopping the payment.
4.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
that HSBC should  fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  transactions  or other signs that 
might indicate  that their customers  were at risk of fraud (among other  things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
Ref: DRN67487142In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
5.I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. The systems 
and procedures HSBC  put in place  to manage  those competing demands  are a matter  
for them. But it is neither  unfair  nor unreasonable to expect a careful banker to double-
check payment instructions that ought  reasonably  trigger  concerns as to whether they 
are unusual  or uncharacteristic for this particular customer  and/or account  activity. 
6.I consider that, at the time Mr B authorised the payment, there were clear  triggers  which 
ought reasonably  to have alerted HSBC to unusual and/or  uncharacteristic activity by 
Mr B with regard to his account irrespective of the payment channel  used.  HSBC  should, 
in my opinion, have acted on these by taking additional steps, or making  additional 
checks, before processing the payments, as it was reasonably foreseeable that not doing 
so might result in this sort of financial harm.  
7.In Mr Bs case, Im satisfied there  were  the following  triggers to alert HSBC to the 
possibility of a fraud  or scam:
The payment  of £4,500 was an unusually large  amount. Ive considered Mr Bs 
statements going back to October 2016, which Im satisfied gives  a good  sample  
size to assess what was typical activity for the account. The account appears to 
have primarily been  used for day-to-day  spending. There  are card payments and 
direct debits,  with the largest payment each month  being for rent at £900. There  
are no other transactions over £1,000, and most payments were for a few 
hundred pounds or less.
Mr Bs account was rarely in credit over £1,000  and since  October  2016  had 
often been overdrawn.  The payment of £4,500 therefore represented a sudden  
and uncharacteristic  increase in spending  from the account.
The payment  was to a new payee.
8.Ultimately,  its a matter for HSBC and/or the regulator as to how they choose to configure  
their fraud detection  systems given  the balance between the duty of care towards clients 
and the duty to execute instructions without undue  delay. There is clearly a fair balance 
to be struck between competing  interests.  But on the facts  and evidence  before me, I am 
satisfied that HSBC could and should reasonably have  made  additional checks with Mr B 
before they let the payment through. There were enough triggers of unusual or 
uncharacteristic activity such that, in my view, a careful banker could and should have 
realised that something didnt  look quite right  and that further enquiries would be 
appropriate before going further. I therefore conclude  that, in failing to do this, HSBC 
didnt do enough  to protect Mr B from the risk of loss.
9.HSBC say that even  if they did fail in their duty to Mr B, they do not consider theyre  
liable for his loss because they dont believe their intervention would have made  any 
difference to Mr B making the payment. But I dont agree. If HSBC had acted on the 
triggers outlined above, it seems likely they would have  contacted Mr B and asked  
reasonable but probing questions to verify  he wasnt being scammed  or at risk of 
financial harm in relation to the unusual and uncharacteristic payment hed requested.
Ref: DRN6748714310.When Mr B made the payment, he believed the fraudster was a genuine company 
offering him a government grant to help his business  which he thought he had to pay 
money for upfront in order to receive. So, if HSBC had contacted  him, as I think they 
fairly and reasonably  ought to have  done,  I think he would  have told them  truthfully what  
the payment was supposedly for. Ive thought about how that conversation  would have 
likely unfolded, keeping  in mind that Id expect HSBC not to take Mr Bs answers at face 
value and to ask suitable questions  with the aim of uncovering  a potential scam. 
11.Bearing in mind  that large  banks often see and prevent all sorts of frauds  and scams, Im 
satisfied it would  have  quickly  become  apparent to HSBC  that Mr B attempting to make a 
large payment  in order to obtain  a government grant would have sounded  unusual  and 
implausible  particularly when the payment was being made to an individuals bank 
account in Thailand. I think  a careful  banker would have  warned their customer  about the 
real risk here of fraud and scams; and that the payment  he was instructing was in the 
context of circumstances that very closely match the hallmarks of a common scam (i.e. 
paying money in order  to receive a larger amount of money). Indeed,  in relation to similar 
business grant scams, Action Fraud has said You should never have to pay to receive  
a government grant, and they definitely  wont instruct  you to obtain  a pre-paid card. I 
also would have  expected HSBC to have made  Mr B aware that the type of payment he 
was instructing  direct transfer  didnt  provide any protection in the same  ways that a 
debit card or credit card might, e.g. through chargeback  or consumer-credit statutory 
rights. 
12.So, on balance,  I think a suitable warning  about the risks of the payment Mr B was 
instructing combined with the amount of money  involved would have  caused  him to 
pause and consider  his options. And Ive seen no indication  that Mr B was so anxious to 
proceed that he would have  ignored  warnings or been unprepared to postpone the 
payment for an hour or so to reflect on the matter and/or make further enquiries. 
13.If Mr B had made  further  enquiries,  I think its more likely  than not he wouldve realised 
that a legitimate government grant  scheme would not require a large upfront payment in 
return for funding.  Further research wouldve also shown  that it was unusual  to have to 
use a pre-paid credit card in order to access the business grant. So I think  him carrying 
out further enquiries/research  would have quickly established that he was in the process 
of being scammed  and consequently the payment wouldnt have been sent and his 
losses would have  been avoided. If HSBC had been unable  to reach Mr B on the phone, 
I still dont think they could have fairly concluded that being unable to contact him was 
reasonable reassurance that he wasnt at risk of financial  harm. In such  circumstances, I 
would have expected them to hold the payment until they had been able to speak to him. 
I am therefore satisfied  that this reasonably foreseeable loss was caused by HSBCs  
failure to intervene. 
14.Ive also considered whether Mr B should bear some responsibility by way of contributory  
negligence. However,  it is clear  that at the time of making the payment, Mr B believed it 
to be genuine.  This was a sophisticated  scam where a convincing fake grant  company  
had been set up (and even registered on Companies House).  The email that purported 
to be from Grant Financial Consultancy  Ltd linked to websites and product literature 
which Mr B said was very convincing. The websites  have since  been taken down; but 
having seen the emails  and some of the documentation sent by the fraudsters (which I 
arranged for HSBC to see  and it has not disputed), it looks genuine and I dont think 
Mr B was negligent  when he was taken  in by this. I am satisfied that he simply did not 
foresee the type of loss that was unfolding; he was not courting a recognised risk by 
Ref: DRN67487144taking inadequate  or no measures to avert it  because he just didnt realise what was 
happening. So I cant fairly conclude there was contributory negligence. Mr B believed  he 
was acting on the advice of a legitimate business  grant company that was backed  by a 
government initiative. He was a genuine unwitting  victim of devious fraudsters. HSBC 
are the finance  professionals whereas Mr B is an ordinary consumer. (Mr B is deemed a 
consumer for the purposes of this complaint, as the scammed  account  was a domestic 
one even though the purported application  was for a business  grant).  
15.In the circumstances,  I am satisfied HSBC  should fairly and reasonably reimburse  Mr B 
for the loss he suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate him 
for being deprived of the money  he lost.
16.Finally, HSBC have  suggested that 8% is a punitive rate of interest that isnt fair to apply  
in the circumstances of this complaint.  They say this will result in Mr B being  in a better 
position to the banks  detriment. Ive considered this but I dont agree. Im not suggesting 
that Mr B would have  otherwise invested  and achieved a return  of 8%. But, given the 
average costs of borrowing over time, it has long been our approach that this is a 
suitable rate to compensate for being deprived  of the funds  and I remain satisfied it is fair 
to apply it in the circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold  this 
complaint. I direct HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay Mr B £4,500 for the payment lost as a result  of 
the scam.
HSBC should  also pay interest on this award at our usual  rate of 8% simple per year from 
the date of the scam payment to the date of the actual refund (less any tax properly 
deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6748714