K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to collect  a direct debit in order  to pay 
off the balance on his credit  card account,  resulting in adverse information being recorded  on 
his credit file. Further, and in turn, he was unable  to obtain a more advantageous mortgage 
rate when re-mortgaging,  leading  to losses which he seeks from Lloyds.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr B and Lloyds so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Mr B moved to Dubai in July 2013. Prior to this he was paying the monthly  balances  on his 
credit card account manually. But Lloyds have confirmed that there was also a direct debit 
(DD) in place to pay the full balance on the account. 
Mr B used his credit  card during the August, September and October 2013. Octobers 
statement shows payment  of the full balance for the previous month,  but the payment due on 
or around  7 November  wasnt made.  Lloyds accept  there was a bank error with the DD and it 
failed to collect the November payment. Mr B didnt  carry out any further transactions on his 
account or make any payments to it after October 2013, resulting in late fees and interest  
being applied.  When, much later, he applied  to re-mortgage he says he was unable to obtain  
a more preferential  rate because of adverse information recorded on his credit file. This led 
to a more expensive re-mortgage and him incurring losses  he would not otherwise  have  had.
Lloyds accepted there was a fault with the DD, but feel Mr B had a duty to ensure the 
balance was paid.  As he didnt  they believe they reported correct and accurate information  
on his credit file and are therefore not responsible for his re-mortgage associated  losses.  But 
as they have accepted  some error, they agreed to remove all adverse information recorded  
from December 2013 until December 2019. They offered  £285  compensation for call costs, 
inconvenience and late payment charges.
Mr B was unhappy with Lloydss response  and so the investigator  looked into the complaint 
and initially  partly upheld  it. He accepted Lloyds had made an error in failing to collect  the 
DD but he didnt  accept that that error had been the cause of Mr Bs re-mortgage losses. He 
thought Lloyds should increase their offer of compensation by a further £200. As Mr B didnt 
agree, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate. I will 
consider whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B. I aim to 
address all relevant  points  with a view to reaching  a fair and reasonable decision based on 
the evidence before me. I take into account both sides  views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come  to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Ref: DRN60940902The accepted facts here are that there was a problem  with the DD and it failed to collect  the 
November 2013  payment.  But that failure has to be seen in context. Mr B had previously 
been making manual payments to his account which demonstrates  that he was conscious 
and paying attention to his outstanding balance. I can accept  that he might in part have also 
been reliant on the DD working, although  militating  against this is, as I say, his earlier 
preference to make manual payments.  In addition, his Barclays account clearly  shows  a 
failed DD to Lloyds  for not only October  2013,  but also November and December.  This 
demonstrates that it is more likely  than not that Mr B would have realised the payment  had 
not been made, and thus the reason the account balance  was not cleared was due to an 
oversight on his part.
I accept that there was a further problem  with Lloyds collections department in not following 
the correct process  to default his account as it should have done in December 2013. So, 
I agree  with our investigator that the bank could  have done more  to try to contact Mr B since  
I accept it had his correct contact details.
That leads to Mr Bs claim for his re-mortgage  related  losses. I have no doubt  that Mr Bs 
credit file would  play a part in any lenders decision as to whether it agreed to lend to him, 
and upon what  terms. However, the decision as to whether to lend to any borrower is a 
complex decision and not solely reliant  on the applicants credit  file. There  is no evidence 
upon which I could  be reasonably satisfied  that the rejection of Mr Bs re-mortgage  
application was caused solely and directly  by the adverse  information  on his credit file as 
reported there by Lloyds.  So, on a balance of probabilities I think  it unlikely  that Lloyds 
reporting to the credit  reference agencies was the cause of his re-mortgage application 
being declined.
Lloyds have accepted some failing, and that as a consequence they should offer 
compensation to Mr B. So the sole remaining issue is what the correct level of compensation 
ought to be. Our investigator feels Lloyds  offer was too low and has suggested an increase 
of £200. I think that would be fair and reasonable and in line with the awards this service  
would make in circumstances such as this. I also understand that Lloyds have already 
removed all the adverse  information from his credit file for the period November 2013 until 
the date the balance was cleared,  but if not I will be directing that they do so.
my final decision
So my decision is that Lloyds should;  
pay Mr B a total of £485 (being an additional  £200 over and above their offer of £285); 
remove all the adverse information it reported on his credit file from November 2013 until 
the date the balance  was cleared; and 
refund  all the interest charged on the account  from November 2013  until the date the 
balance was cleared.
Ref: DRN60940903Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6094090