K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that their home insurance claim for storm damage to their flue, 
log burner and outbuilding has been rejected by Aviva Insurance Limited.
background
On 20 September  2018 Mr and Mrs B discovered that that the lid of their log-burner was 
about two foot above the log-burner and approximately two foot forward  of the log-burner. 
The next morning  they discovered that where  the flue exited through an outbuilding, the 
outbuilding had collapsed  and the flue was no longer  attached to the wall. They made a 
claim to Aviva, who sent out a surveyor  to inspect the damage.  He concluded  that there was 
no storm on the date or time the damage happened. His view was that the wind hadnt done  
direct damage to the flue and even if it had, the type and nature of fixing  was not 
satisfactory. He said the flue was held in place by a single fixing  point with a very thin screw 
fixing into the timber  frame of the building. The timber frame was in very poor condition and 
provided no restraint capacity to the screws.  He said that it was more  likely that the lean-to  
building moved  first due to its extremely poor condition, resulting in the flue being dislodged 
from the wall. This then triggered the series of events  resulting in the lid of the log burner 
becoming dislodged and the failure  of the flue.
Mr B disagreed with this opinion. He said that there  was a named storm in the locality on the 
day and the whole area was on a yellow warning. He objected to the surveyor saying the flue 
had only one fixing when  it was attached by two fixings, one low and one very high. He 
further said the beams were in a sound state and the flue was fixed  to those beams. He 
believed the surveyor  was wrong and the damage  had been caused by the winds on that 
day.
Aviva maintained its decision to decline the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that although there may have been storm 
conditions in the days leading up to the damage, she thought it reasonable to accept the 
surveyors conclusions and find that the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage.
Mr B disagreed  he had issues  with the surveyors report that Aviva based its conclusions  
on. He said it contains inaccuracies, unsubstantiated claims and is, at times,
economical with the truth.  It is not a fair report and misrepresents the evidence . He has 
carried out an assessment of the evidence and believes that this shows the flue was well 
fixed, there were windspeeds of up to 63mph and this was the cause of the damage.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, we act as an alternative dispute  resolution service. Our role is to resolve individual  
complaints informally. I say this as Mr B has concerns about Avivas  processes and its 
supervision of its surveyors. Those  wider  issues arent part of my function to look at.
Ref: DRN68184852As Mr and Mrs B have been  advised by our investigator, when we consider storm damage  
we ask three questions, and it is only if the answer to each of those  questions  is yes that 
we would be likely to uphold the complaint. The questions  are:
On the balance of evidence,  do we agree  that storm conditions occurred on or around 
the date the damage  is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed  for consistent with what we generally  see as storm damage?
Were storm  conditions the main  cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
For a claim to come under the storm cover  in the policy there  has to be a one-off incident  of 
storm that caused the damage. Theres no definition of storm in the policy but we generally 
consider a storm to be characterised  by violent winds,  usually  accompanied by rain, hail or 
snow. For damage to be likely  I would usually say that there  would have to be winds of at 
least 47mph.
Here theres some  dispute as to the likely  windspeed at the time of the claim.  The weather 
reports say that on the day the damage  is said to have happened the maximum gust was 
37mph, nothing like strong enough to cause any structural  damage. Im prepared to accept 
that there  was a named  storm in the area and that as the weather station was 14 miles away  
the windspeeds near Mr and Mrs Bs property could have been  higher  but Ive seen no 
evidence that in Mr and Mrs Bs particular area that windspeeds of more  than 47mph 
occurred. I think it unlikely  that there was a storm but nevertheless I will go on to consider 
the other two questions.
was the damage  consistent with storm damage?
The damage here was highly  unusual.  Essentially  the flue attached  to the log burner was 
pulled out of the wall and the outbuilding collapsed. This isnt consistent with what  we 
generally see as storm damage  unless  the windspeeds were so high that generalised 
structural damage throughout  the neighbourhood occurred. And I havent seen any evidence 
that was the case.
was the storm the main  cause of the damage?
When we consider complaints we have to rely on the documentary  evidence. And if theres  
an expert opinion  its normally reasonable to rely on that. The only expert opinion we have  in 
this case is that of the surveyor. And whilst Mr B believes the report  is flawed, I think it 
reasonable to accept  its main conclusions. These are that the property (particularly the 
outbuilding) was in a very poor state  of repair, that much is evident from the photos supplied. 
Also the flue was poorly fixed, whether it had one or two fixings.
Any opinion as to what happened has to have a degree of speculation and I accept that we 
cant know for certain what happened. I have to consider what in my view was most  likely to 
have happened. And in my view given the likely windspeeds at the time the damage 
happened, it is unlikely that the wind was violent  enough to remove a well-maintained  flue 
and collapse  a soundly built outbuilding.  I appreciate  that Mr B believes it was soundly fixed 
but on the evidence I think that was unlikely. Certainly Ive seen no other expert evidence to 
the contrary. So I think that if the wind did contribute to the damage this was likely to be 
because the flue wasnt well fixed and because of the dilapidated state of the outbuilding 
Ref: DRN68184853which collapsed at the same time. So I dont think that any storm was the main cause of the 
damage.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2020
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6818485