K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr and Mrs A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995.  Mr and Mrs A paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered their mortgage 
payments in case either or both of them were off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.  
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs As PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs As mortgage application  offered them the choice to take or turn down PPI. The 
option to take PPI was chosen,  and Mr and Mrs A checked they were eligible and chose how 
to split the cover. They signed the mortgage application form to confirm their choices. The 
mortgage offer then showed theyd added PPI and set out its cost separately to the cost of 
the mortgage payment. I havent  seen  any evidence which shows  that Mr and Mrs A were  
told they had to have PPI, and Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales process 
from the time. So overall, I think its most  likely that Lloyds  made  Mr and Mrs A aware  they 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though  I can 
understand if they no longer remember doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr and Mrs A were eligible for the cover  and werent  affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
While they had benefits through work, it looks like the PPI wouldve offered  Mr and Mrs A 
more comprehensive  cover at the time of the sale. And it wouldve paid out on top of their 
work benefits. Further, this mortgage  was a significant, long-term  commitment,  and there  
was no guarantee  Mr and Mrs A wouldve still had the same employment situation  or 
benefits in the years  to come. I understand Mr and Mrs A felt secure in their jobs and health, 
but accidents, sickness, and redundancies  can and do happen. And if Mr and Mrs A fell 
behind on their mortgage, they couldve  lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful for them  in protecting  their home and providing some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN63851402Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs A about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs A chose to take out PPI, which  indicates  
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr and Mrs A werent  affected  by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for them in case  
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs A could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely  to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6385140