K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS) didnt tell him his money  was being 
moved to an account  paying a lower interest  rate. Mr M is also unhappy with the service he 
received when he went in branch. 
background
Mr M opened a savings account  with YBS in June 2017. The account paid an interest rate of 
1.00%. The terms for the account explained  that the account was only for one year, and after 
this, Mr Ms savings  would be moved to the latest  issue of their Triple Access Saver (TAS) 
account. 
In May 2018  YBS wrote  to Mr M explaining that as his savings account was reaching  the end 
of its one year term, his money  would be moved to the latest TAS account paying an interest  
rate of 0.85%. The letter also provided Mr M with options on what to do if he wasnt  happy 
with his money being moved into this account.  Mr M strongly disagrees with YBSs 
explanation that this letter was sent. 
Mr M went into a YBS branch in November  2018 and he says it was then that he found  out 
about his lower interest rate. Mr M says it took several staff and over 30 minutes  to deal with 
the transfer of his money into another account. 
When Mr M complained, YBS said that as the letter in May was sent to the correct address, 
they couldnt be held responsible for Mr M not receiving it. They acknowledged the service 
provided in branch was less than what theyd  expect and offered  £50 for the upset caused  to 
Mr M. The adjudicator found that the compensation offered  was reasonable, and didnt  
recommend YBS do anything more. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators findings, saying 
that no letter was received by him. The case has now been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr M. Having reviewed  the case,  I agree with the adjudicators  findings,  
and I wont be recommending YBS do anything more.
Mr M says that YBS didnt tell him about the change to his account, as he never received the 
letter in May 2018. I can appreciate it must have been frustrating for Mr M to go into branch 
in November 2018 to find that his money was in an account paying 0.85%, when he thought 
it was still in an account with a higher interest rate. 
YBS have provided  a screenshot showing all the communications sent to Mr M from when 
his account was opened in 2017.  Mr M has also confirmed that he has received post from 
YBS, so its fair to say that letters were being  sent and received. Ive seen YBSs  system 
notes record that a letter was sent on 29 May 2018.  And Ive seen a copy of this letter which  
explains the change  in interest  rate.
When there are different versions  of whats happened  provided  by a business  and a 
customer, we need  to make a decision based on what we think is more likely to have  
happened. Although  Mr M strongly  disputes  receiving this letter,  the evidence Ive seen 
shows that its more  likely than not that the letter was sent. Based on what  Ive seen, it 
doesnt feel fair to hold YBS responsible for Mr M not receiving the letter. 
Ref: DRN66535602I think YBS did enough to tell Mr M about the changes to his account, and his options if he 
wasnt happy with his money being  moved to an account paying  a lower interest. As YBS 
didnt hear back from Mr M, his account was moved to a TAS account. This was explained to 
Mr M when  he opened  his account  so I think YBS acted  in line with the account terms by 
moving Mr Ms money  at the end of the one year term. For these reasons I wont be 
recommending YBS offer any compensation for this part of Mr Ms complaint.
YBS acknowledged the service provided in branch wasnt what theyd expect,  and agreed  to 
provide feedback to the branch. Mr M was offered  £50 for the upset  caused  to him by his 
experience in branch. I can appreciate it must  have  been frustrating for Mr M to be passed to 
different staff to deal with his request to move  his money to another  account. Mr M says this 
was the same account he was originally invested  in. I accept that the new account invested 
in was similar to the account Mr M was originally invested in. It took some time form YBS to 
sort things  out in branch,  but think the actions taken by YBS here were reasonable so I wont  
be recommending  YBS do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6653560