K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund him £200  after a cash  
machine failed to dispense  this amount to him. 
background
On 5 July 2018,  Mr B tried to withdraw  £200 from his NatWest  account, using a cash  
machine at a petrol station. The cash machine was owned by another provider, which  I will 
refer to as C.
Mr B says at the time he used the cash machine there was an older  male  who was bending 
down in front of the cash machine looking in a bag. Mr B says this male prompted him to use 
the cash machine  first. And then moved  away from the machine. Mr B then put his card into 
the machine and requested £200.  Mr B says he didnt receive any money and the machine 
displayed a message which said it couldnt fulfil his request. 
Mr B says he put his card into the machine again  and selected the option to withdraw £200. 
He says a message appeared on the screen, but he couldnt read it due to the glare from the 
sun. And the machine  didnt dispense any cash. So, he drove to a nearby supermarket to 
use another cash machine where  he tried again  to withdraw £200  from his account. On this 
occasion Mr B says a message appeared on the screen asking him to contact his bank.  Mr B 
then went home, checked his online  banking  and discovered £200  had been  deducted from 
his account. So, he called  NatWest to report what had happened.  
Mr B says he went back to the petrol station with the intention  of viewing the CCTV footage. 
But says he was told by staff that the footage didnt show Mr B or anyone else using the 
cash machine at the time he used it. Mr Bs also provided evidence from a social  media post 
to show that the ATM  he used wasnt working properly. 
Mr B complained to NatWest who investigated  his concerns. NatWest contacted C, which  
provided information to show  that nothing unusual had been reported with the machine  that 
day. The balance  of the machine also suggested that Mr Bs money  was dispensed when  he 
requested it. So, NatWest didnt think it needed  to do any more.
Unhappy with NatWests  response,  Mr B brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into it. She also found  that the information from C supported that the 
money was dispensed when  Mr B requested it. So, she didnt think itd be fair to ask 
NatWest to do any more. Mr B disagreed so the case was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking 
NatWest to give Mr B the £200 he wants here.  Ill explain why.
Mr B is a customer  of NatWest, but he tried to withdraw money from a cash machine 
operated by C. NatWest  contacted C and it provided NatWest the machines ledger for the 
time of the disputed  withdrawal. This doesnt show any problems with the withdrawal and 
this is information  that would  show on a ledger.  I can also see that transactions took place 
just before and after Mr Bs transaction, with the next one being just three minutes later.  And 
these appear to have  gone through. So, it does appear the machine  was working correctly. 
Ref: DRN61716462C also said that when  the cash machine was balanced there were no discrepancies  there  
wasnt a surplus of £200 (which I would expect to see if the money hadnt been dispensed 
properly).The information shows there  was around  £50 more  than expected  in the purge 
box which is where money is deposited  if it doesnt  get dispensed during a withdrawal. If 
there had been  a malfunction with Mr Bs withdrawal, Id have expected  there to be 
considerably more in the machine than expected. So, the balance shows the £200 Mr B 
withdrew was dispensed.  Ive also kept in mind  that Mr B says he didnt receive  any money  
from the machine.  So, I cant say the £50 relates  to Mr Bs transaction. 
The disputed withdrawal  was made  at a petrol  station at around 9.20am, so I also need to 
consider the potential for cash trap and other  physical interference type scams than can 
take place at cash machines. Considering the location of the cash  machine and time of the 
transaction, I think this is likely to be a high-level foot traffic area. And Im aware the area is 
also covered by CCTV. So, if someone  did tamper  with the machine, I think there is a high 
likelihood theyd  be noticed. Ive also kept in mind that the cash machine  was used by 
someone else successfully, quite quickly after Mr Bs transaction.  So, when I weigh 
everything up, I think its unlikely that someone, such as a fraudster, wouldve taken such  a 
risk and tampered with the machine. 
Our investigator has also confirmed with C that at the time of Mr Bs withdrawal there  were  
no reported faults or issues with the cash machine. Ive looked  at the information Mr B has 
submitted which  he says shows that the cash machine wasnt  working  properly. And that 
other customers also failed to receive  cash from the machine. But these  reports  are dated  
from September 2019, which  is more than a year after Mr B used  the machine. So, I cant 
reasonably place any weight on this information.
Having considered the matter carefully,  and recognising this will be disappointing  for Mr B, I 
think it more likely than not the machine was working correctly and that it dispensed  the 
£200. It isnt necessary for me to decide  whether  Mr B took the £200 himself,  or whether he 
left the machine, with the money dispensing later, and then someone else took it. In either 
case, NatWest didnt do anything wrong,  and so it isnt liable to refund Mr B the money. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6171646