K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H through  a Claims Management  Company (CMC) have complained  that 
Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a Silver and Platinum account in December  2009  
and June 2012 respectively.
background
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service Lloyds refunded  the account fees for the 
Silver account with interest in line with our approach so we have not looked into the sale of 
this account.
Our adjudicators looked at the complaint about  the Platinum account and didnt think  Lloyds 
mis-sold the Platinum packaged account. The CMC  disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Having carefully looked  at everything  provided,  Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Id like to explain the reasons for my decision. Mr and Mrs H say that they had to upgrade 
their account  in order to go from a sole account  to a joint account, but when the Platinum 
account was taken out their account was already  held jointly.  So I dont think  this is why they 
agreed to this upgrade. I think it is more likely that they agreed to the Platinum account  for 
the benefits that it came with.
Lloyds made  a personal recommendation when the Platinum account was taken out. This 
meant it had to make sure it was right for them.
At the time the Platinum  account was taken  out, the main benefits were  worldwide family 
travel insurance, enhanced breakdown  cover, mobile phone insurance and overdraft 
benefits. 
From what  I have  been provided  with, it appears  that Mr and Mrs H had a need  for family 
travel insurance, breakdown cover, mobile  phone insurance and they used their overdraft 
facility. I note Mr and Mrs Hs comments that they did not drive, but I should highlight that 
there is a direct debit  the month prior to the Platinum account upgrade for breakdown cover  
with another provider, which stops after the upgrade. This suggests that they had a need for 
breakdown cover and had cancelled their existing cover in favour of that provided by the 
Platinum account.  But even if I were satisfied that Mr and Mrs H did not need breakdown 
cover, the Platinum  account was the cheapest account with family travel insurance,  and as I 
think they had a need for this benefit,  I cant conclude that Lloydss recommendation was 
inappropriate.
Mr and Mrs H may not have been told everything about all of the benefits  that the accounts 
came with. But I cannot see anything specific that they were  not told about, that I think 
wouldve altered  their decision to take out the account.
Ref: DRN64609302Taking everything into consideration I do not think that the Platinum account was mis-sold so 
I do not think that Lloyds owes Mr and Mrs H any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6460930