K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
Background
Mrs H took out a regular premium PPI policy with her mortgage  in 1992. The PPI was 
amended in 1994 to take into account a further mortgage advance. Throughout, the policy  
covered Mrs H if she couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Hs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, there are gaps in the information thats still available from the relevant times. I 
dont find that surprising given how long ago that was. Nevertheless,  Ive taken into account  
the information I do have, together with the arguments raised by the parties. I note, for 
example, that Mrs H says she believed  she had to have the PPI when she applied for the 
mortgage. But Im mindful that, so many  years after the sale,  she might  no longer have a 
completely accurate recollection of it. 
Ive also taken into account that PPI was compulsory with some  of Nationwides  mortgages  
at the time, depending on the amount being borrowed in relation to the value of the property 
to be mortgaged (the loan-to-value or LTV). But Mrs Hs LTV meant  her mortgage didnt fall 
within this category and that the PPI wasnt compulsory. 
Overall, I havent seen enough  evidence to suggest  that Nationwide presented the PPI to 
Mrs H as compulsory or as part and parcel  of the mortgage. Its just as likely she was aware  
she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and chose to take it knowing that was the case. 
I dont believe Nationwide  recommended the PPI to Mrs H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs H got the information she needed in a clear,  
fair and not misleading way to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like better information would have put her off the policy  anyway. I say that because, for 
example, Mrs H wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover.  And I 
cant see that shed  have found the monthly premium  unaffordable. 
Ref: DRN65856572It seems  as though Mrs H was entitled  to enhanced sick pay from her public sector  
employer. But the PPI benefits were  considerable and potentially paid out for up to 24 
months for each successful claim.  It covered her for unemployment too and, while  Mrs H felt 
her job was secure, there  was no guarantee that would remain  the case. If she had savings, 
the PPI meant she could  have retained  them or used them  to cover her other living costs if 
she wasnt working.
Overall, I believe the PPI provided  affordable  and useful protection for Mrs H if something  
went wrong, especially  as it helped protect  borrowing that was secured against her home.  
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mrs Hs lost out because  of how Nationwide  
sold her, or subsequently amended, the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6585657