K820x#14Complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the charges applied at the end of his hire agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS). He would  like the charges removed 
and to be compensated for the time hes spent  on this issue.  His complaint is also about the 
service he has received.
Background
Mr M entered into a hire agreement with VWFS  in November 2015 to hire a new car. He 
said he experienced poor service  from VWFS throughout the lease  period  and so when it 
came to an end he decided not to renew. The car was returned, and an inspection 
carried out on 21 November 2018.  Following this refurbishment  charges were applied  to 
Mr Ms account. 
Mr M disputed the charges that were  applied and although these were reduced,  he still 
didnt accept the remaining charges. He said he requested an independent review of the 
charges (in line with his rights) but this hadnt  happened. 
Mr M contacted VWFS about the charges and then raised  his complaint in January 2019.
VWFS said that the inspection carried out in November 2018 was carried  out in line with 
the industry guidelines  provided  by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA). It said that when Mr M raised his complaint it reviewed the charges and 
removed some charges  as it considered  these  to fall within  the fair wear  and tear 
guidelines. It said the remaining charges of £414 fell outside of the acceptable  damage  
and so Mr M remained liable  for these.  
VWFS said that in its final response letter it provided Mr M with 14 days  to pay the 
remaining charges.  As this didnt happen  it issued arrears  letters  and the debt was later 
passed to its recovery  partners. 
Mr M didnt agree  with VWFS  response and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr M doesnt  agree. He said his complaint wasnt  about paying for the charges but that 
he wasnt provided with the opportunity to have  an independent  review  as he should be 
allowed under  the guidelines. He said VWFS hadnt followed  the rules.  
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for these reasons: 
Mr M entered into a hire agreement and in doing so agreed  to its terms. The hire 
agreement set out that contact would be made at the end of the lease and the vehicle 
would be inspected  and that if there was any damage beyond  the BVRLA fair wear  
and tear standards charges would apply. An inspection took place based  on the 
BVRLA guidelines in November 2018 and refurbishment costs  were applied. Mr M 
could have inspected  the car before it was returned and carried out any necessary  
repairs before the end of the lease  term.
Mr M has said that he wasnt given the opportunity  to have an independent 
inspection of the charges that had been  applied before the vehicle was sold. He 
referred to his right to have this in the BVRLA guidelines. I have considered  the 
Ref: DRN68629842information in the guidelines  and this sets out that the driver has the right to pay for a 
review of any of the documents and photographic  evidence. While I understand the 
car has been sold, a review could still take place  based on the inspection  report.  I do 
not find that VWFS has prevented this from happening.
When Mr M raised his complaint, VWFS undertook a review and amended the 
charges. It then agreed that some  should  be removed as it considered that they fell 
within the wear and tear guidelines. It said the remaining charges of £414 fell outside 
of normal wear  and tear. I find the action taken  at this time to review the charges was 
reasonable.
I have looked  at the inspection report provided  and compared  this to the BVRLA 
guidelines. Based  on what I have seen  I do not find it unreasonable that the 
remaining charges  have been  applied.
While  I understand why Mr M is upset about the process  that was undertaken, I do 
not find that VWFS has done  anything wrong  in applying the current  charges to his 
account. 
I understand Mr Ms comments about the time he has spent on this complaint. 
However, I think, in this case, VWFS  has responded to Mr Ms concerns in a timely 
way and as I do not uphold  the complaint, I do not require  any compensation to be 
paid.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6862984