K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has incorrectly calculated her car 
insurance premium following a mistake. 
background
Mrs D was involved in two car accidents in 2016. She was told by Admiral that this wouldnt 
affect her protected no claims discount (NCD)  but if she had a third claim, it would. However, 
in November 2016, Mrs D received  her renewal quote and found that not only had she lost 
her protected NCD, but her annual premium  had doubled. So, she raised a complaint  with 
Admiral. 
Admiral agreed it had provided  incorrect information,  so they offered to reinstate the 
protected NCD. But as the premium remained higher than previous  years,  Mrs D took out 
car insurance elsewhere.
In November 2017, Mrs D was informed by her then car insurers that her premium would 
increase as Admiral  had recorded the two accidents  in 2016 as fault claims. Mrs D raised a 
further complaint  saying  only one accident  was her fault, but the other was settled on a split 
liability basis. 
Mrs D decided to renew  her car insurance with Admiral  whilst the dispute  was ongoing. And 
it was resolved in her favour with one claim being  amended to non-fault and the protected 
NCD was reinstated.  Mrs D asked Admiral  to recalculate her annual premium for 2017 
based on the revised details. 
Admiral did this, but Mrs D wasnt happy.  She said her revised premium wasnt  as low as it 
had been, so she doesnt think Admiral  calculated it correctly and asked us to look at her 
complaint.  
Our investigator didnt  think Admiral  had done  anything wrong.  Shed  reviewed the 
calculations from the premium adjustment, and she was satisfied it was correct. But Mrs D 
didnt agree, and the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that prior to the accidents, Mrs Ds annual premium  was under £300. Since her 
November 2016  renewal,  shes been quoted in excess of £500. 
When Mrs D renewed with Admiral in November 2017, she paid the annual cost of £589.82. 
But she expected  this to reduce after the complaint had been resolved. Admiral has 
recalculated the premium  based on the updated claims information and the reinstatement  of 
the protected NCD, which has given Mrs D a refund of £134  this brings  the annual cost of 
the policy to £455.82. 
Mrs D says this is still substantially  higher than what she used to pay before the accidents.  
She thinks it has been calculated incorrectly and is supported  by the fact that her November 
2018 policy renewal  dropped to £267. 
Ref: DRN66269362I can appreciate why Mrs D feels this way. The 2017 premium  is still higher than what she 
used to pay. But this doesnt seem unusual given that she still has two claims recorded. 
Whilst one of these  is now showing as a non-fault claim following the previous complaint, 
Admiral may still take it into consideration when  assessing the risk. Its not unusual  for 
insurers to take into account fault and non-fault accidents when assessing risk and the 
correlating price for cover.
Ive also reviewed the calculations from Admiral.  And whilst I cant  share  these details with 
Mrs D due to the commercially sensitive nature, I am satisfied the readjustment to the 
premium has been  done  correctly. 
Ive thought about Mrs Ds comments regarding her November 2018 premium.  But I dont 
think this demonstrates the recalculation  of the 2017 premium  was wrong. I say this 
because, as far as Im aware, Mrs D didnt have any further accidents in 2016.  So as a 
further year had passed with no reported  incidents,  its understandable that her premium 
reduced. The 2018 policy was not a renewal  of a previous policy, it was in fact new business 
with Admiral as Mrs D had insured elsewhere the previous year.  New business  often attracts 
additional discounts.
Its also worth noting that NCD is not a promise that a premium remains unchanged.  
Premiums fluctuate as insurers  may change various  risk factors that make-up the price.  NCD 
is a discount that is applied  within the overall premium calculation.  Paying to protect NCD 
retains the level of discount and in Mrs Ds policy it is stated that in most cases a claim will 
lead to some  increase  at renewal. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6626936