K820x#14The complaint
Miss K and Mr S are unhappy because  Sesame Limited didnt provide them  with critical 
illness cover.   
  
What happened
In 2007 Miss K and Mr S approached an independent financial adviser  (IFA) who identified 
their protection needs in respect of a newly purchased property. As employees of Sesame at 
the time,  Miss K and Mr S contacted Sesame directly for insurance, rather  than through  the 
IFA, so they could access staff discounts on its available products. Sesame arranged 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) and home contents  insurance for Miss K 
and Mr S.
In 2017 Miss K was unfortunately diagnosed with a critical illness. She made a claim for the 
mortgage to be paid off. At which point the couple discovered they didnt have critical illness  
cover.
Miss K and Mr S complained to Sesame. They said it was clear theyd wanted critical illness 
cover and so didnt think the policies Sesame arranged for them in 2007 had met their 
needs. Sesame  didnt uphold the complaint.  It said there  was no evidence  Miss K and Mr S 
wanted critical illness cover. And in a subsequent response, Sesame added  that it didnt 
arrange policies  that included critical illness cover. Sesame also said the couple were  
provided with documents relating to the policies, but raised no concerns at the time. 
Miss K and Mr S didnt agree with Sesame and so asked our service  to look into their 
complaint. They said theyd made  it clear to Sesame in 2007 they needed  critical illness 
cover. And were concerned Sesame was now saying it didnt arrange such  cover.  They said 
Sesame had misled  them  into thinking  the cover was in place. They said if Sesame had told 
them at the time it couldnt provide critical illness cover, theyd have got all their required 
cover elsewhere. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She accepted  Miss K 
and Mr S had discussed the need for critical illness cover with their IFA as part of their 
overall insurance package, and that they contacted Sesame to get a quote and arrange 
cover. But she said there  was no evidence to show the couple specifically instructed 
Sesame to provide  critical illness cover. Our investigator also found  Sesame  had provided  
Miss K and Mr S with all the necessary paperwork at the time.
Miss K and Mr S didnt agree with our investigator  and so their case  has been passed  to me 
to review. They said if the investigator  was satisfied theyd contacted Sesame to arrange 
quotes, she should accept they asked for critical illness cover  as part of that process.  
Miss K and Mr S also said all the documentation supporting the IFAs recommended 
protection needs was provided  to Sesame  and the fact they arranged some of the 
protection identified  to meet their needs,  shows Sesame mustve known they wanted critical 
illness cover  too.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
Ref: DRN66970032I know this will be very disappointing for Miss K and Mr S, but Id like to take some time to 
explain how Ive reached my decision. Ive read and considered the whole  file, including the 
information Miss K sent on 15 April 2020.  But Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about  it, but because I dont  think I need  to comment  on it to reach what  I think is 
the right outcome. 
It might help if I first explain that whilst Sesame sells insurance products, it had no role in 
advising Miss K and Mr S on their protection needs.  Having first spoken to the IFA, Miss K 
and Mr S, employees of Sesame at the time, decided against proceeding with the IFAs 
recommendations. Instead, they approached Sesame direct to arrange the insurance based 
on the IFAs recommendations. So, this was a non-advised sale by Sesame. 
Miss K told us that Sesame was provided with the IFAs recommendation documentation,  so 
it ought to have known they required critical illness cover. The communication  with Sesame  
was in the form of internal telephone calls, emails and internal post. But unfortunately, there 
are no copies of any of the documentation exchanged during this time. This isnt surprising 
given the events took place 13 years ago. 
The difficulty  with this case  is the lack of available  records. I can see the IFA recommended  
the need for three  policies,  including  critical illness cover, in the protection  section of the 
mortgage application. And, I dont dispute the couple had every intention  of acting on the 
IFAs recommendations. But unfortunately, Miss K and Mr S havent been  able to show this 
documentation was provided to Sesame  or evidence of what they exactly  instructed Sesame 
to set up for them. So, I havent seen enough  to persuade  me that they asked Sesame to 
provide critical illness cover and that Sesame failed to carry out that instruction.
Miss K and Mr S say because Sesame arranged cover for some  of their protection  needs, it 
mustve received instructions on all of them  including critical illness  cover. And by not 
telling them it didnt  arrange critical illness cover, the couple  say Sesame was in breach of 
FCA principles.  As Ive explained above,  theres no evidence Sesame received any specific  
instructions from Miss K and Mr S on their need for critical illness cover.  And I have to agree 
with the investigator  here, that had Sesame received the request to arrange all three 
policies, Id have  expected it to arrange  all three,  or let Miss K and Mr S know that it didnt 
arrange critical illness cover  if that was the case. If Sesame didnt do this, then Miss K is 
right to say it wouldnt have met its obligations. But because I dont know  what Sesame was 
instructed to do, I cant say it did anything wrong  here.
Miss K says Sesame sent no post sale correspondence to them, so they couldnt check  
exactly what cover was in place. I can see Sesame sent documentation to the couple, based  
on the cover  theyd asked  it to arrange, for them to review before accepting  or declining the 
policy terms. Its unfortunate if Miss K and Mr S didnt receive this, but I cant  say Sesame 
did anything wrong.  Furthermore, Id also have expected them  to have received 
documentation direct  from the insurance  companies providing the cover.  If they didnt 
receive anything  at all, Id have expected  them  to contact  Sesame  to chase the 
documentation. But I cant  see any evidence to suggest they did that.  
I dont underestimate  the significance of the unfortunate situation Miss K and Mr S have 
found themselves  in. But because theres  no evidence of what  the couple discussed or 
agreed with Sesame, I cant say a mistake by Sesame when it set up Miss K and Mr Ss 
Ref: DRN66970033policies has left them without critical illness cover.  So, I cant  reasonably ask Sesame to take 
any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6697003