K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about problems he had when rejecting a car he acquired via a hire purchase 
agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).  
background 
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 16 May 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what I thought  BMF  should do to resolve it. I invited both parties  to send  any additional 
evidence or comments they wished to make. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We didnt hear back from Mr F. BMF responded to confirm it had nothing further to add.
As neither Mr F nor BMF have provided any new evidence of information for me to consider I 
see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. I remain  of 
the view this complaint  should be upheld. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to: 
-Refund the remaining £300  of the £1,300 deposit
-Pay 8% interest on the £1,300 deposit  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68683692Copy of provisional decision dated 1 May 2019
complaint
Mr F complains about problems he had when rejecting  a car he acquired via a hire purchase
agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF).
background
Mr F acquired a car via a BMF hire purchase agreement in August  2017 and paid a £1,300
deposit. The hire purchase agreement had a four year term and the car had 14,900 miles on
the clock when supplied.
In 2018 Mr F found there were  problems  with his car and an inspection discovered  there
were serious problems with the gearbox which were likely  to have been present when the
car was supplied.  Mr F paid £300  for the inspection  which  BMF later refunded.
BMF went on to complete another inspection and agreed that the faults found  with the
gearbox were probably present when it supplied  the car so agreed that Mr F could reject it.
The car was collected at the end of September 2018 but there  was a short delay before Mr F
was released  from the agreement while  the service book was provided. BMF stopped
collecting payments from Mr F in October 2018.
Mr F complained and asked BMF  to refund the payments hes made  under the hire purchase
agreement, his deposit  and cover the servicing and replacement tyre costs he paid shortly
before the car was rejected.
BMF agreed  to refund £1,000 of the £1,300 deposit but said the difference reflected the
higher mileage and use the car had on collection. BMF  didnt  agree to refund  the costs  Mr F
paid. As Mr F remained  unhappy he referred his complaint to our service  and an adjudicator
looked at it. She thought  BMF should refund Mr Fs full deposit and pay interest on it. The
adjudicator also said BMF should cover the cost of the tyres Mr F paid for shortly before
rejecting the car as well as contributing £200  to his servicing costs and because  of the
trouble and upset caused. But BMF didnt think that was fair so asked for the complaint to be
appealed. As a result,  the complaints been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMF accepts the car was fairly  rejected so my role is to decide  whether the refund its paid is
reasonable. BMF agreed to refund £1,000 of a £1,300 deposit  to Mr F and says the
difference reflects his use of the car while it was in his possession.  But, like the adjudicator,  I
dont think thats fair.
Mr F has made 14 monthly payments to BMF under  the terms  of his hire purchase
agreement. Given Mr F was using the car during this period I think  its fair for BMF to keep
the monthly payments  he made. I also note that the mileage  has gone up between delivery
and rejection but thats to be expected. Im satisfied the payments Mr F made fairly cover the
use of the car so its not fair to BMF to keep part of his deposit as well. As a result, I agree
BMF should refund the remaining £300.
BMF says it doesnt feel interest should be paid on the deposit  Mr F paid. But hes not had
use of those funds since they were paid to BMF and he hasnt been able to keep  the car he
acquired via the hire purchase agreement either. So I think the adjudicators right to say that
BMF should pay interest on the deposit  Mr F paid.
Ref: DRN68683693The adjudicator recommended that BMF cover  the cost of new tyres on the car. Mr F paid for
an MOT on the car on 31 July 2018 at 26,863 miles and it found  that all four tyres were  close
to the legal  limit. As a result, Mr F paid £320 for four new tyres on 1 August 2018.
I dont agree with the adjudicator that its fair for BMF to refund the cost of Mr Fs tyres.  I
appreciate that the MOT  had advisory  notices for the tyres but Mr F had driven the car for
around 12,000 miles at this stage. I think the replacement of tyres can reasonably be
considered as a cost that Mr F, as the driver of the vehicle for over a year, should have to
cover.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I also dont  agree  with the adjudicators  recommendation that
BMF pays £200 to cover the trouble and upset caused by the delay in refunding part of
Mr Fs deposit as well as costs for replacements parts  and work completed in relation to the
MOT. Ive looked at the invoice Mr F has supplied for the MOT and service but the costs he
paid reflect the general maintenance and wear on the car during the time it was in his
possession. I dont  think  its fair to tell BMF to cover those costs. And whilst I agree  theres
been a delay  in refunding the £300 deposit difference to Mr F Im not persuaded the impact
on him is enough  to tell BMF to pay him for the trouble and upset thats caused.
For the reasons  Ive given above Im satisfied Mr Fs complaint should be upheld but Ive
reached a different decision to the adjudicator about the fairest  way to do that.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint and intend to tell
Blue Motor Finance Ltd to settle in line with the following:
-Refund the remaining £300 of the £1,300 deposit 
-Pay 8% interest  on the £1,300 deposit from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6868369