K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  wont  pay their home  
insurance claim for storm damage to their roof. 
background 
In February 2019  Mr and Mrs B made  a claim to Lloyds after their roof was damaged  in a 
storm. Mr B says gale force winds blew off a large section of plastic  capping to the
eaves/gable end of the roof and dislodged  a number  of tiles.
Lloyds sent a surveyor to look at the damage. He didnt think  the damage  Mr and Mrs B 
were claiming for had been caused  by the storm. So Lloyds declined  Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Lloyds.  It didnt uphold their complaint saying damage that 
happened gradually through wear and tear or due to lack of maintenance wasnt  covered  by 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy.
So Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. In the meantime,  they got their roof replaced. 
And they also got a report from their roofer on the damage. His report  contradicted  the 
findings of Lloyds surveyor.
Our investigator upheld  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He thought  it was reasonable to say the 
storm was the main factor causing  the damage. He also said he didnt think  Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve been aware of the gradual  damage  to their roof, so he also didnt think Lloyds could  
rely on the policy exclusion for this. He said Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim and 
also pay them £150 for the distress  and inconvenience it had caused them.
Lloyds disagrees  and so Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  has come  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For complaints about storm  damage, we look at three main issues:
Were there  storm conditions  on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
Is the damage consistent with the damage  a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all three questions is yes, I can say the damage was most likely  caused by 
the storm. If the answer to the third question is no, I need  to look at whether the exclusion 
for gradual  causes applies.
were there storm conditions?
Mr and Mrs Bs policy says a storm is a period of violent weather (a) with strong winds with 
gusts of at least 55mph, and/or (b) hail or snow of such intensity or weight that it causes 
damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
Ref: DRN68540762Our investigator looked at the weather records in Mr and Mrs Bs area from the time.  This 
shows peak wind gusts of 61 miles an hour. I dont think theres any doubt  there  was a storm 
at around the time of the damage, and Lloyds hasnt  disputed this.
So the answer to the first question is yes.
is the damage claimed for consistent with damage  a storm typically  causes?
The damage here is the ripping off of a large section of fascia  as well as dislodged  and (from 
what Mr B says) fallen roof tiles. I think this is consistent with damage caused by strong  
winds.
So the answer to the second  question is yes.
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
When Lloyds surveyor looked at Mr and Mrs Bs roof, he did so from the ground using a 
camera to take photos  of the damaged area.  He said the timber the fascia  was screwed 
down into was rotten and so wasnt  supporting  the fixings. He said there were dislodged tiles 
on the roof in the same area and there were two lead tab repairs,  suggesting the damage 
was caused by nail fatigue. It was on the basis of this report  that Lloyds said it wouldnt pay 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim  it said the storm had highlighted damage,  rather than caused it.
When Mr and Mrs B had their roof replaced, their roofer gave them  a report on the damage 
he found. He said while the fascia showed  signs of rot, the timber  the fascia was screwed 
into wasnt rotten. He also when  fitting  the new roof he was able to fit a dry verge system to 
the timber. It was his view that a roof as old as Mr and Mrs Bs would always have lead tab 
repairs from past storm damage.  Mr B has also sent us photos he says are of both old and 
new nails to show the old nails werent  fatigued, as Lloyds surveyor  had said they were.
We showed Lloyds  Mr Bs roofers report and it then sent us a report  from a second 
surveyor, whod reviewed  the first surveyors report. Weve shown Mr B this second report 
and hes given us his detailed comments on it. I know Mr B disputes many of the second  
surveyors findings and I agree with him that, in some instances, they are quite speculative. 
The surveyors overall conclusion, though,  was that the cause of the upvc verge  facia  trim 
becoming detached is a failure of the screw  fixing because of the degree  of timber rot and 
decay, into which the upvc fixing screws were  driven and the stage  of wood rot and decay 
had been reached where  the screws no longer held. 
I am not a surveyor and theres no getting away from the fact that the evidence  here is 
conflicting. Lloyds  surveyors  say timber into which the fascia was fixed was rotten. Mr Bs 
roofer says he fitted a dry verge system to it, suggesting it wasnt. What  I have  to decide, 
though, is whether storm conditions were likely to be the main  cause  of the damage.  Looking 
at all the reports as well as the photos  of the roof, the damage it shows  doesnt look to me 
like it was caused by a single storm event. There are signs  of wood decay and earlier  repairs  
in the photos,  which  I think  are likely  to have weakened the roof over time. But I do think  its 
quite likely the storm was what  caused the fascia finally to detach and some  roof tiles to 
dislodge and also fall off. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy notes a storm can highlight damage rather  than cause it. And it says 
damage that happens gradually through wear and tear or due to lack of maintenance is not 
covered. 
Ref: DRN68540763This kind of exclusion isnt unusual in home insurance policies. And it means that, on the 
face of it, the damage Mr and Mrs B are claiming  for isnt covered. We usually take the view,  
however, that its unfair not to pay a claim because of an exclusion relating to gradual 
deterioration unless  a consumer either knew or should reasonably  have been aware the 
damage was occurring and so shouldve  taken steps to prevent it. 
Ive seen nothing  to make me think Mr and Mrs B knew about the damage that was 
occurring before the storm.  Lloyds second surveyor says the maintenance considerations 
couldve been identified  and planned  for prior to the date of loss. He contends  the 
underside of the original timber fascia board wouldve been visible, including  the advanced  
state of the timber decay from ground  level. He also says he suspects the upvc fascia  
couldve been seen  from the ground to have partially detached itself from the timber verge 
board and be loose before the storm. 
Im not persuaded by the surveyors thoughts  on this, which  arent backed up by any 
evidence. Mr and Mrs Bs house looks taller than many homes (three  stories,  though  with a 
basement rather than built from ground  level). From  the alleyway beneath the gable end, I 
think it wouldve been very hard indeed for Mr and Mrs B to see up to the original timber 
fascia (the area of decaying wood in the close-up photos of the top of the roof is small 
enough), let alone see it was decaying. And Mr B says if hed known the fascia  was 
becoming detached, hed have replaced it. I believe him. As he says, he got the roof 
replaced as soon as he knew the repair versus the replacement  costs. And the first surveyor 
says Mr and Mrs Bs home was generally in a good state of repair. From  this, I dont think  its 
likely theyd have ignored an obvious issue.
So looking  at everything Ive got, I dont  think Mr and Mrs B should reasonably have been 
aware the damage was occurring over time. That means I dont think,  in this case, its fair 
and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the policy  exclusion  for gradual  deterioration. And thats 
why Im upholding  this complaint. I understand Mr and Mrs B paid £4,400  to have their roof 
replaced. And from Lloyds first surveyors report, he estimated the repairs  would cost 
£1,200. So I think  £1,200  is what Lloyds  should pay Mr and Mrs B.
I can see the dispute over how the claim was being handled has caused Mr and Mrs B some 
distress and inconvenience. I know Mr B has felt all along that Lloyds reasoning  was unfair  
and unsound.  Like our investigator, I think Lloyds should pay them £150 in compensation for 
this.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited to pay 
them:
£1,200 (which is what Lloyds surveyor estimated it would cost to repair  the roof 
damage); and
£150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused them.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs B these amounts within  28 
days of the date we tell it theyve accepted  my final decision. If it doesnt,  it must pay simple  
interest of 8% per annum  on these  amounts  from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment.
Ref: DRN68540764Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6854076