K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  hes unhappy with information given  to him by Mortgage Express. He says 
he was told when he switched his mortgage  to interest only, that hed be able to switch  it 
back to repayment  at the end of the mortgage  term. Hes also unhappy with the way 
Mortgage Express have  treated  him since the mortgage term expired.
background
Mr L took out a base  rate linked variable rate mortgage with Mortgage  Express in January 
2002. The mortgage was for £115,000  over a 17-year term. Mr L made several further 
borrowing applications after this time. The mortgage account fell into arrears for some  time 
and Mortgage  Express suspended litigation action in April 2007,  as the account was brought  
up to date. In August  2007, the mortgage  fell into arrears again. In September 2007, Mr L 
switched his mortgage from a capital repayment to interest only.
Mr Ls mortgage term ended in March 2019  and as it stands, he is unable  to repay the 
outstanding balance which as of November  2019 was around  £195,511. In July 2019,  
Mortgage Express passed Mr Ls mortgage  account  over to Rosolite Mortgages (trading as 
Topaz Finance  Limited).
Mr L complained to Mortgage Express  who said that transferring a mortgage to capital  
repayment is not something that is guaranteed. They said the terms and conditions do not 
provide an automatic right to transfer to a repayment mortgage at the end of the term.
Mr L was unhappy,  and so brought the complaint to our service  and is being represented by 
Ms C. The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt  think that 
Mortgage Express had acted unreasonably.
Mr L didnt agree with what our investigator  had said. Ms C, on Mr Ls behalf, made the 
following comments. In summary she said:
 Mr L was disappointed that we were  unable to obtain transcripts  or the call recording 
from the time that he switched his mortgage  to interest only in 2007
 that she (Ms C) had a conversation with Mortgage Express  (she had authority on the 
account) about  changing the mortgage to interest only and was told that Mr L could 
change back to repayment at the end of the term. Ms C said it would not have  been  
normal practice for Mortgage  Express to just send out a new contract and terms 
without having  had a conversation in the first place
 Ms C said Mr L signed the forms on the basis of the telephone conversation he had 
with Mortgage  Express
Mr L asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
to decide.
Ref: DRN62102692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, I agree 
with what the investigator said for broadly the same  reasons, so I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive looked at what has been  available  at the point  the switch  was made from repayment to 
interest only. Our investigator  tried to obtain  contact notes and the telephone call from 
September 2007 as Mr L has said that the switch was made over the phone. Unfortunately,  
Mortgage Express have  been unable to provide  this information to us. This isnt unusual as 
the change was done a number of years  ago. I appreciate that Mr L finds  this frustrating as 
other calls and notes have been sent to us. But we rely on businesses to send us what they 
have, and Mortgage Express have told us they dont have this information. I have therefore  
based my decision  on the information that I do have from both parties  and what  I think  is 
likely to have happened.
The mortgage offer from September 2007 shows that the change made to the mortgage  was 
non-advised. This means  that advice wasnt given to Mr L and he would have  had to make 
his own choice as to how he wanted to proceed  once information  had been  given to him. 
The offer shows that it was also a self-certified mortgage, which  meant that Mr L didnt have  
to provide any specific evidence about his income and Mortgage Express  didnt have to do 
any additional checks around this. This isnt unreasonable for this type of mortgage. And as 
the change made to the mortgage was non-advised, it would  seem  that Mr L chose  how he 
wanted to proceed. 
I also bear in mind that this wasnt a sale as such,  in that Mr L wasnt  taking out a new 
mortgage. His mortgage was converted to interest  only to help him because  he couldnt  
afford it on repayment terms at that time  and if the change hadnt happened  and the 
arrears had continued to build  up, Mr Ls property might well have been  repossessed.  So the 
change to interest only benefitted him in his circumstances at the time.
Ive seen a letter dated 28 September 2007  which confirms  that the switch to interest  only 
has taken place. The letter also confirms the interest  rate that the mortgage is on and 
confirms that Mortgage  Express did not have any details of any repayment  vehicle  to pay the 
mortgage off at the end of the term.
 
I cant see that Mortgage Express did anything wrong in changing  Mr Ls mortgage  to 
interest only from repayment as this was something he wanted  to do at the time to make his 
mortgage affordable.  The offer states  that a customer would need to take into account the 
costs of any separate savings or plans  required, to repay the outstanding balance at the end 
of the term. It appears that Mr L didnt have anything  in place.  
I appreciate he has said that he was told at this point in time, that he would be able to 
change his mortgage back to repayment at the end of the term. As we cannot get a copy of 
the call recording to verify exactly what has been  said, I need to base my decision on what I 
think is likely  to have happened. 
Ref: DRN62102693Mr Ls mortgage was in arrears at some points during the mortgage term. In April 2007, 
Mortgage Express suspended litigation because the mortgage was brought up to date. The 
account fell into arrears again in August 2007,  a month before Mr L asked  for the mortgage  
to change to interest  only. I think based on Mr Ls circumstances  at the time, he was in some 
financial difficulty and changing his mortgage to interest only seemed  to be the right thing for 
him - to lower his monthly payments. Mortgage Express didnt do anything wrong in making  
this change. This was a reasonable act of forbearance on their part. If Mr L remained on a 
capital repayment  mortgage, he could have  fallen further into arrears and the outcome could 
have been very different for him.
It could well be, that Mr L was told he could change  his mortgage back to repayment at or 
before the end of the mortgage term. This could have been an option for him as it would 
guarantee that the mortgage  was paid off, if the term was also extended to allow for this to 
happen. But from my knowledge of the mortgage  market, changing  a mortgage from interest 
only to repayment  is not something that is guaranteed.
Its very difficult  to predict what  a customers circumstances will be in the future. When a 
mortgage changes  from repayment to interest only, payments are decreased,  because  only 
interest is being paid off. But when  the mortgage  is transferred the other way, payments 
increase, and sometimes by a considerable amount  depending on how long is left of the 
mortgage term. This is why its very difficult for anyone to be able to guarantee that this will 
definitely happen  because a lender  will need  to make sure that this is affordable for its 
customer, as that would be the right thing  to do.
Ive listened to some telephone calls between Mr Ls partner Ms C, which  are more recent 
(2017) between her and Mortgage Express.  On these calls, Ms C asks what  would happen 
at the end of the mortgage  term and what their options are. They  are given the option  of 
changing to repayment and extending the term but Ms C is advised  that they would need to 
make an appointment  to discuss  this as they would need to make sure that Mr L could afford 
it  and that an income and expenditure form would need to be completed. 
Ms C also mentions on this call they are due an inheritance but they were not sure when it 
might come through as there was a dispute with it. Ms C said that she would wait until there 
was a year left before making an appointment.
It wasnt until a call in March 2019,  as the term was ending, that Ms C mentioned she was 
under the impression that the mortgage  would switch to capital repayment and the term 
extended. On this call, the adviser  did say it was an option but not one that was guaranteed. 
The call note Ive seen  says that the adviser  said an appointment  could be made to discuss 
this and Ms C said she would discuss it with Mr L. At this stage, the adviser also asked if 
Mr L would  sell the property because if so, they would consider a grace  period after the term 
had ended to enable this to happen.  Ms C explained on this call that Mr L had another  
charge against  the property and if it was sold, they would not have enough to be able to live 
elsewhere.
Mortgage Express have  confirmed that an appointment did take place to discuss a term 
extension but because Mr L is self-employed, they would  require a full years  worth of 
accounts which Mr L was unable to provide. I dont think it was unreasonable of Mortgage 
Express to ask for this information because as a responsible lender, they had to make sure 
that the mortgage was affordable for Mr L  especially as he had fallen into arrears  
previously.
Ref: DRN62102694The term expired  in March 2019  and the loan passed over to another  lender in July 2019.  
Mr L has another complaint against  the new lender about the term end itself and options 
available to him. From my understanding, options  are being discussed on what  can be done  
to enable the balance to be paid off. I wont comment further on this as that complaint is still 
being investigated.
As for this complaint  and what Mr L thought  would  happen  at the end of his interest only 
term, based on what I have seen, Im satisfied  with how Mortgage Express have treated 
Mr L. I cant say they have been  unfair  or unreasonable in how they have acted. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 27 April 2020.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6210269