K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  debited  her account 
although she didnt  get any cash from the cash machine.
background
In October  2017 Miss W was abroad  on holiday. She used her debit card to withdraw  £80 of 
foreign currency. She didnt get any cash out of the cash  machine so waited around to make  
sure. Nothing was dispensed. She checked her account but couldnt  see any immediate  
debit. As overseas  cash machine  transactions take longer to be processed, Miss W only 
later found  shed been debited £81.25,  as well as £2.23 and £1.50 worth of charges.
Miss W complained to Halifax. They contacted the overseas cash  machine  owner.  They 
believed they were given evidence showing the cash was dispensed. Therefore they were 
unable to reclaim the money from the cash machine owner. Halifax  rejected Miss Ws claim 
and re-debited the £81.25  (which theyd immediately refunded  when she first complained). 
Miss W brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She was upset Halifax  relied  on a 
printout whilst disregarding her, and her partners,  evidence that no money was dispensed.
Our adjudicator asked  for additional evidence from Halifax  including  the record  to show the 
cash machine balanced  at the end of day. Overall he didnt believe Halifax  had done 
anything wrong. He told Miss W he wasnt upholding her complaint. She asked  for an 
ombudsman to consider  her case. She felt she was being accused of lying.
I contacted Miss W to ask how she managed for money whilst she was on holiday. She 
pointed to a cash  withdrawal she made on her credit card for the same amount  of foreign 
currency.
I also contacted  Halifax to query the evidence theyd got from the overseas cash machine 
owner. I suggested to Halifax  they offer to refund the money. I explained this complaint was 
only about £80 and I felt it was unlikely  Miss W would  have  continued to pursue this if shed 
really received the money. Halifax was unwilling to consider this.
I completed a provisional decision on 17 October. I explained the reasoning behind my 
decision that I was likely  to uphold this complaint. 
Both Halifax and Miss W agreed with my findings. I now have all I need to complete a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither Halifax  nor Miss W made any 
comments in response  to my provisional  decision, I am repeating below  my reasoning.
There is only really one issue at the heart of this complaint.  Was cash  dispensed when 
Miss W used  the overseas cash machine on 10 October  2017?  If the cash  was dispensed 
and Miss W just walked away without taking it, then it wouldnt be appropriate to refund  her. 
But this isnt what she says happened.
Ref: DRN62027702To help me decide what happened, Ive considered Miss Ws recollections along  with her 
record of her subsequent  credit card withdrawal of the same amount. Ive also reviewed the 
evidence Halifax got from the overseas cash machine owner.
There are international  card scheme rules  which manage how banks dispute  card payments 
with each other  whether that is a cash machine withdrawal or a card payment at a retail 
outlet. If the evidence satisfies certain parameters  (as it did here),  then Halifax wouldnt be 
successful in getting the money back.  But when we consider these  disputes  we are not 
bound by those  rules.
So in considering this evidence, I note the electronic record  which  Miss W has also seen  
says the cash was presented at 17:58:02  and taken just two seconds later at 17:58:04. I 
think this short timescale doesnt suggest  Miss W waited around and simply walked away 
when the money  didnt  appear.
But its certainly the case that electronic  records showing whether cash  was dispensed or 
not arent infallible. Thats why we ask for records which  show that the cash  machine 
balanced or whether there was evidence of any other problems with the cash machine that 
day. Halifax did request  this information  but what  they received  didnt  show  a full audit trail. 
Rather there  was a simple statement on it:
ACQR CERTS ATM IN BALANCE ON 101017
I take this to be a manual addition to the record by the bank  owning the cash machine 
confirming the machine  did balance. I see no reason  why theyd state something that was 
incorrect (other than to avoid having  to make  any refund)  but it is also not definitive evidence 
the machine did indeed  balance.
Ive considered this evidence  alongside  Miss Ws. I cant really  see why Miss W would raise 
a complaint about not getting  foreign  currency  for a relatively small amount  if in fact she 
had received it. She has pursued this complaint to our service and has had to wait a 
considerable time before weve been able to consider  this fully. Ive also seen a copy  of her 
credit card statement which  matches her recollection that, when she didnt get any money  at 
the first machine, she went  elsewhere and used  her credit card instead. It seems to me 
Miss W is generally  careful with her money and I dont  think shed have withdrawn cash on 
her credit card unless she felt she had no choice.
On the balance of probabilities, I consider Miss W did not get the money  she requested 
when she used her Halifax debit card. Therefore Halifax will need to refund her. Theyll  also 
need to add 8% simple  interest a year to that amount. Miss W has been without this money 
for just over two years so I think thats reasonable.
Halifax was given the opportunity to resolve Miss Ws complaint much earlier.  I appreciate  
they werent getting refunded by the overseas cash machine owner but their stance has 
meant Miss W, their customer, felt she was being  accused of lying. Bearing in mind  Miss Ws 
profession Im not surprised shes been  so unhappy  about this. I think its fair and reasonable 
Halifax give Miss W £100 for the distress theyve caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
Ref: DRN62027703Refund £84.98 to Miss W for the disputed withdrawal when she didnt get her cash;
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 11 October 2017  to the date of 
settlement;
Pay £100 to Miss W for the distress caused and to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6202770