K822xcomplaint
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H, complains about  the customer service received from John Lewis 
Financial Services Limited  in respect of a section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
background 
Mrs H bought several appliances from John  Lewis (the retailer). Mrs H says that one of 
these appliances  wasnt placed on the delivery  lorry correctly and ended up getting 
damaged. Mrs H has raised various grievances.  One of these is that JLFS was too slow in 
dealing with her section 75 claim. And also that JLFS unnecessarily demanded an 
independent inspection of the item in question. 
As I understand the faulty item has been  replaced under the warranty. And the retailer  
awarded her £400 compensation as a goodwill gesture. As Mrs H remained  unhappy  with 
her final response from JLFS, this mater  was referred to our service. 
An adjudicator has already looked at this case.  He felt that an apology  from the retailer, or 
JLFS (on behalf of themselves and the retailer) was fair and reasonable in this case.  JLFS  
agreed to do this and have since  issued  an apology to Mrs H. 
But Mrs H still remains unhappy. She was particular about the wording the apology should  
include. Mrs H has also now submitted a detailed breakdown of costs  which  she is seeking 
to recover from JLFS.
In light of the above this complaint has now been referred to me to look at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  To be clear,  whilst the background 
information which has been provided to our service is helpful in understanding things, its 
important to remember that this complaint is against JLFS  only.  
I agree  that JLFS  couldve handled Mrs Hs section 75 claim better. By asking for the 
independent inspection I think this did cause delays in progressing her claim and was 
probably unnecessary. 
The overall customer service Mrs H received  wasnt good enough.  And this includes  Mrs H 
having to chase for claim forms  to be sent out to her.
Just like the adjudicator  I think  a written apology is appropriate in this case, to recognise the 
poor handling by JLFS  of Mrs Hs section 75 claim.  Ive looked at the apology letter which  
has already been  sent to Mrs H. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
dont think its reasonable for Mr H, or Mrs H, to be advising JLFS what they should include 
in this document. 
I note the detailed costs breakdown which has been  submitted  to our service on behalf of 
Mrs H. But Im afraid I dont think this case warrants any such  costs  to be awarded. Whilst 
Ive already acknowledged that JLFS shouldve provided better  customer service to Mrs H 
Ref: DRN61261242when handling  her section 75 claim, I strongly  feel, based on all the evidence, the apology 
already issued is enough. So I wont be asking  them  to do anything further in this matter. 
I appreciate Mrs H will be very disappointed in my decision. But overall I think  this is a fair 
and reasonable outcome to the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I think the written  apology already issued by John Lewis Financial 
Services Limited is fair redress in this matter. So they dont need to do anything  else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf  of 
Mrs H, to accept  or reject  my decision before  27 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6126124