K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr S says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1999.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr S owed on his store  card. The policy  would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr S couldnt work  because he 
had an accident,  was unwell or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasoning below: 
FICL had to make it clear to Mr S that the policy was optional and get his consent before  PPI 
could be applied to the account. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr S signed credit agreement. On it there is a section related to PPI 
where Mr S has signed to say he wanted the policy. Theres nothing on the form to suggest 
the PPI was compulsory,  so if he hadnt  wanted the policy I think  he wouldve known he 
couldve left this section  blank. So on balance I think its likely that FICL  would have asked 
Mr S for his agreement to add the policy  to his account and he chose to take it knowing he 
didnt have to. Although  its understandable that he no longer remembers  this. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mr S and I think  thats likely to be right. So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for him.  But FICL did need to make  sure it gave 
Mr S clear  enough information about  the policy to enable him to decide  for himself if he 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  him better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think he would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr S 
was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Mr S has told us that he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer. He also says 
he couldve  relied on his wife and family to help make his repayments. But the PPI would 
Ref: DRN66899332have paid out on top of his sick pay and until he was able to return  to work,  or until the 
outstanding balance was cleared  whichever came  first. And the policy  would cover  the 
same term if he was to lose his job. And having the policy meant he wouldnt have to rely on 
his wife and family whose  ability to help would depend on their own circumstances  at any 
given time.  So I think  he wouldve  found the policy useful. Overall, when taking into account 
everything Ive seen and been told, I dont  think  Mr S has lost out as a result of anything 
FICL may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6689933