K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC has reported adverse information to the Credit  
Reference Agencies about  him that wasnt related to him.
background
Mr H says he had problems applying  for credit  in 2017 and again in 2018.  He says he was 
advised to check  his credit file and discovered  adverse  information  had been recorded on his 
credit file by Lloyds. Mr H says he has never had a Lloyds account and that Lloyds must 
have made  a mistake. He says the mistake has affected his health  and caused a long period 
of problems getting credit. Mr H would like his credit file amended  and for Lloyds to pay him 
appropriate compensation.
Lloyds initially said it hadnt made  a mistake  and had accurately reported  the position  of the 
accounts to the CRAs. It then reviewed the complaint and now accepts that there was a 
mistake and has asked the CRAs to remove the adverse data from Mr Hs credit file. Lloyds 
says it doesnt  think  it made a mistake as it wouldnt have had Mr Hs personal  data.  But its 
said it will update the CRAs  and has paid Mr H £200 compensation as it accepts it cant rule 
out the possibility it made  a mistake.
Mr H had already brought his complaint to us and our investigator  thought  overall Lloyds had 
dealt fairly  with it. The investigator thought  the compensation  paid was fair and reasonable 
and thought Lloyds had acted fairly  by removing any adverse data. The investigator thought 
it difficult to say who caused the error.
Mr H doesnt accept  that view and says the compensation  isnt enough. He says hes 
suffered direct financial loss as a result of what  happened and that his credit application has 
now been approved as a result of the adverse data being removed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr H will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I have no doubt  the adverse information  recorded on Mr Hs credit file caused him problems 
in obtaining credit and I accept  that hes been caused frustration and inconvenience in trying  
to find out what  had happened. I also accept that Lloyds  didnt  look into matters  as I think  it 
ought to have done when  Mr H first raised his complaint. But I can see that Lloyds  has 
apologised for that and fairly agreed to remove the adverse data from Mr Hs credit  file.
Im satisfied that Lloyds  has fairly agreed  to pay compensation in circumstances where it 
cant say where the fault lies. Im also satisfied  that the compensation offer is fair and 
reasonable and fairly reflects what has happened here and the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I dont think it possible to say if Lloyds made  a mistake here or if the CRAs have made a 
mistake. I dont think Lloyds would  have had Mr Hs personal details as he didnt hold a 
Lloyds account  which leads me to conclude the mistake may have been caused by the 
CRAs or one particular CRA. I appreciate that Mr H would like to know  exactly what took 
Ref: DRN66480232place but whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H I cant fairly take that part of his complaint any 
further.
Overall Im satisfied that Lloyds has acted fairly be making  sure the adverse information was 
removed from Mr Hs credit file. Im also satisfied that Lloyds has fairly concluded it could  not 
rule out making  a mistake but has paid an appropriate amount of compensation. For those 
reasons I cant fairly order Lloyds  to pay any further  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6648023