K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mr and Mrs C1 complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold 
them payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a mortgage in 1997.  The 
policy protected the mortgage monthly  repayments in the event that Mr C couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C and Mr and Mrs C1 disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. 
They mainly  say that Mr C felt pressured  into having PPI as it was implied that without  it 
there would be no finance. They say it wasnt made clear that PPI was an optional  product 
and couldve  been refused. Mr C told us the cover wasnt  needed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain my reasons. 
The mortgage application includes a section which gives brief details about the benefits of 
PPI. There are yes and no tick boxes. So I think it wouldve been clear that not having PPI 
was an option.  
The yes option is ticked and Mr C has signed next to where it says: Yes,  I would like to 
take advantage of Mortgage Repayments  Insurance. 
And, at the same time, he completed and signed a separate application form to have the PPI 
added on to the mortgage account.  
I cant be sure exactly how Halifax explained  PPI to Mr C and Mr and Mrs C1. But overall, 
looking at the paperwork Mr C signed when he applied for the PPI, I find this clearly sets out 
PPI as a matter of choice.  And, on balance, I find that it was added to the mortgage  account 
when he chose to take it out - although  I can completely understand why these details might 
now be forgotten given  how long ago this happened.
Ive taken into account what Mr C has told us about feeling pressured into taking out the PPI 
and not having sufficient  time to think or reflect. But what  he says isnt enough on its own for 
me to be able to uphold  this complaint. I have to look at all the available information and 
decide what I think is most likely. I can see that Mr C made it clear on the mortgage  
application form he signed that he wanted to take the policy  out  and he filled in a separate  
application that gave him the option  to decline PPI if he hadnt wanted it. So I cant  fairly  say 
that the bank didnt  explain  that PPI was an optional  feature. 
Ref: DRN66241992I've also taken into account  that the PPI application  was made  at least 6 weeks or so before 
the mortgage completed. So, I think its fair to say there would've been  enough  time to reflect  
on the decision to take out PPI and to make other  arrangements  if it wasnt  wanted after all. 
So what  Mr C says about this doesnt affect  my decision. 
Halifax recommended the PPI. If a financial business makes  a recommendation about PPI, it 
has to take reasonable steps  to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable  as well as 
giving important policy information in a clear  way.
Mr C was eligible for the PPI policy. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim if he was unable to work as a 
result of accident or sickness.  As Mr C was only entitled to statutory sick pay if he was off 
sick, I think PPI couldve  given him a useful  benefit  at whats  likely  to have been a difficult  
time  especially if Mr C had extra costs as a result  of illness or disability.
The policy wouldve also paid out if Mr C lost his job unexpectedly and was involuntarily 
unemployed. 
I dont know if Mr C wouldve always been able to rely on anyone else, including his 
mortgage guarantors, to cover mortgage repayments he couldnt afford to pay. 
Ive taken into account that Mr C mentioned having savings  but I havent seen any details 
about this. And I dont  know  if he wouldve  always had savings he could depend on to make 
his monthly repayments.  Repeat claims were possible under the policy  providing  long term 
protection for the mortgage.
Looked at overall, I think  the policy was suitable.
Mr C chose to take out the policy and it appears he wanted to have it, knowing what  his 
circumstances were  at the time. The cost of the policy was set out on the PPI application 
and it seems Mr C found this acceptable. The policy provided a benefit level that covered  the 
mortgage monthly repayments  and the amount  of benefit chosen was rounded  up to cover 
some other costs as well and also included some extra benefit. So Mr C seems to have been 
happy to pay for the amount of cover he wanted  at the time.
Its possible  some of the information  Halifax provided about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Cs case. So, I dont think having  more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to take it out. 
Given the benefits PPI offered Mr C and Mr and Mrs C1, on balance I dont think  that having  
more information  about the policy wouldve put Mr C off applying for it. I think  he still 
wouldve taken out the policy.  
Ref: DRN66241993my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C and 
Mr and Mrs C1 to accept  or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6624199