K821x#15complaint
Ms V has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited wouldnt offer her a proportionate 
refund of premiums after she tried to cancel her private medical insurance policy mid-term. 
background
In October  2017, Ms V renewed her private  medical  insurance policy, held with AXA. She 
paid the annual premium of £1,574 upfront. 
In January 2018, Ms V started a new job. Her new employer offered her membership of its 
group private medical insurance  policy.
In February 2018,  Ms V rang AXA seeking to cancel her policy as she did not want  duplicate 
cover. Vitality told her this wasnt possible until the next renewal in October 2018.
In March 2018, Ms V contacted AXA again  to question the advice shed been given. AXA 
reiterated that it wasnt possible to cancel her cover.
Ms V was unhappy  at AXAs response. She complained to it.
In July 2018, AXA issued its final response letter. It confirmed  that the policy was designed 
as a 12-month contract and, once the 14-day  cooling  off period had ended,  could not be 
cancelled. It pointed to the relevant section of the policy  handbook  where  this was explained. 
It further noted that it had paid £1,962 in claims costs since the policy had renewed  in 
October 2017 and considered that it wasnt therefore reasonable to expect it to allow  early 
cancellation.
Ms V had further correspondence with AXA in which  it conceded that the policy could  be 
cancelled but that she wouldnt be entitled to any refund of premium.
Ms V was unhappy  at AXAs decision.  She considered its documentation was unclear and 
gave conflicting  information about  whether  the policy could be cancelled  mid-term. She 
thought she should be entitled to a proportionate refund of premium from the time she first 
raised the matter  with AXA in February 2018. She also considered its customer service  had 
been very poor.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She was 
satisfied that under  the policy terms, while Ms V could cancel the policy at any time,  AXA 
was under no obligation to provide a refund of premium. In light of this, and given the 
amount AXA had paid in claims exceeded  the amount  Ms V had paid as an annual premium,  
our investigator was satisfied AXA had acted fairly  in refusing to refund any premium. 
However, our investigator considered that AXA had handled Ms Vs enquiries poorly. 
It should have  explained to her when she first made her enquiry that she was entitled to 
cancel her policy but that this wouldnt result in a refund of premium. Our investigator 
considered that this failure in communication  had resulted in a great deal of confusion for 
Ms V, for which AXA should pay her £100  compensation.
AXA agreed to the investigators findings.
Ms V agreed to the investigators findings in respect of the customer service  issues but did 
not agree  with the findings in respect  of the premium  refund. She said that AXAs  terms and 
Ref: DRN69481192conditions were unclear,  particularly  in comparison with those  of other  private medical 
insurers, and did not explicitly state that no refund would be given if a claim had been made 
during the policy  term. She pointed to a reference  on AXAs website which she considered to 
imply that the policy could  be cancelled at any time and which  made no mention  that a 
refund wouldnt  be given. She further pointed out that AXA never offered to change  the level 
of cover and thus reduce the premium, which would have allowed at least  some refund.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that this complaint should  be upheld in part. I shall explain why.
cancellation / refund
I agree  with Ms V that AXAs  terms and conditions are not as clear  as they could be and 
sometimes are in conflict, so I can understand her confusion.
However, the membership guide  (page 12) states:
You have a 14 day cooling off period  when  you can cancel your plan at no extra cost, so 
long as you haven't made a claim during that period.
The 14-day  cooling  off period starts  on whichever  of these dates is the latest:
the date you received  this pack
your renewal date
if you have changed your plan, the day you receive documents confirming the changes.
You can cancel your plan at any point after this 14-day cooling off period,  but you may have 
to pay all or part of your yearly subscription.
I consider this makes  clear that Ms V was entitled  to cancel her policy whenever she liked 
but that if this was after the end of the 14-day cooling off period she wouldnt necessarily  be 
entitled to a refund of premium.
The membership guide referred Ms V to the membership handbook  for further  details.
The membership handbook (page 36) states:
If you do not cancel your membership within the cooling-off period your membership  will 
continue for a year so long as you continue paying your subscriptions.
Given that Ms V had paid her annual premium  upfront, this implies that cancellation  wasnt  
possible until the next renewal. However, while this conflicts with the statement in the 
membership handbook that cancellation  was possible at any time, it doesnt imply in any way 
that if Ms V were to cancel her policy mid-term she would  be entitled to a refund of premium.
The membership handbook (page 38) further  states,  in relation to the 14-day cooling off 
period:
Ref: DRN69481193If the plan is cancelled  during the 14-day  cooling off period, we will return any subscription  
paid for the plan.  The exception to this is if one or more claims have been made relating to 
cover during  the 14-day  cooling  off period.
If a claim is made during the 14-day cooling off period,  the lead member may have  to pay for 
any services we have actually provided in connection with the plan to the extent  permitted by 
law. We may deduct this from any returned subscription.
 
While this is specific to cancellations within the 14-day cooling off period, I consider it 
reasonable to assume that AXA was unlikely to adopt a more generous approach  to refunds 
for cancellations which were made outside of that period.
Ms V has drawn attention  to a Q&A section on AXAs website which, in talking about how to 
cancel membership, states  if for any reason  you want to leave.  She thinks  this implies 
the policy could  be cancelled at any time. However, Ive already acknowledged  that Ms V 
was able to cancel her policy at any time. I dont consider  the website implies that she would 
necessarily be entitled to a refund of premium  and I also think  the website is less relevant in 
determining AXAs obligations than the membership guide and handbook.  
Taking all of these references  together, I consider that the policy allows  for cancellations  to 
be made at any time. However, if the annual premium has already been paid in full, there is 
no contractual obligation on AXA to refund  any part of this. Furthermore, AXA is unlikely to 
exercise its discretion  to award any refund if the policyholder has already made claims in the 
policy year which exceed the amount of the annual premium.
Given that Ms V sought to cancel  her policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period,  and had 
made claims  which exceeded the value of her annual premium, Im satisfied that it was fair in 
this case for AXA to refuse to refund any premium. 
Ms V has suggested that AXA should have  invited her, as an alternative to cancellation,  to 
reduce her level of cover. However, the membership  handbook (page 33) clearly explains 
that changes to the level of cover can only be made at the time of renewal. Im satisfied that 
AXA therefore wasnt at fault for not offering this as an option to Ms V when she sought to 
cancel her policy mid-term.
customer service  issues
AXA handled Ms Vs enquiries poorly.  When she made her initial request to cancel her 
policy, it should have  given this proper consideration and explained why, although this was 
in theory  possible,  it wouldnt  result  in a refund of premium in her particular case. AXAs  
failure to do this resulted in confusion and inconvenience for Ms V, for which I think it should  
pay her compensation  of £100.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Ms V £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN69481194Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6948119