K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Miss W bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint  because:
 I think Capital One made Miss W aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it. I say this because I've seen a copy  of Miss Ws postal 
credit card agreement. 
On this form, there were  options for additional products or services,  including  PPI. For 
PPI, there was a statement; Please enrol  me in Capital Ones Payment  Protection  
Scheme Next to it there  were  Yes and No options. Theres  a tick next to the Yes 
option and Miss W has signed  the overall form. So I think that this indicates what she 
wanted.
Ive carefully considered  what Miss W has said about not being told that she would 
have PPI added to the account. But this was a postal  sale and I think that Miss W 
completed the application form without  anyone from Capital One present. 
But even in a scenario  where Miss W ticked for PPI without realising, I think  that its 
more likely than not that she would have  questioned  why she was paying for PPI  
much sooner  than she did, when  it appeared on her monthly credit card statements 
when she had an outstanding balance. But I havent seen evidence that she did and it 
remained on her account for some  time.
 Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. 
 Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But Miss W doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ref: DRN65117322Ive taken into account all of Miss Ws comments,  including what  shes said about not 
needing PPI because she could have relied  on her friends and family. But although Miss Ws 
friends and family may have wanted to help her, they may not have  been  in a position  to 
help when needed as circumstances can change. 
Having this policy would also reduce  Miss Ws reliance  on her friends and families help for 
making her repayments.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6511732