K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about her central heating insurance policy  with British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
background
Mrs R has held a policy with British  Gas for some time. When she received the renewal  
documents in 2018, she called to discuss the increase in the annual  premium which had 
gone up to £598.59. British Gas agreed to reduce  the premium by half.
Mrs R is very unhappy that her premium has increased each year and says if she had known 
British Gas would reduce  the premium if she called,  then she would have done  so before. 
Mrs R says she has therefore  been  overpaying for the policy in previous years and wants  the 
previous years premiums  to be reviewed and a reasonable proportion of them  to be 
reimbursed. She has also referred to a consumer advice publication, which  says the typical  
price of the policy she holds would be around £312.
Mrs R has also said that British Gas has deemed  her gas fire as being unsafe due to 
inadequate ventilation  while carrying out a service  under the policy. Mrs R is unhappy about 
this as she says nothing has changed  since it was installed and it has passed previous 
annual services without  any problem. She also says she was told she had to have some 
essential work done and then was told it wasnt necessary. Mrs R is also unhappy that 
British Gas didnt  respond  to her complaint email. 
British Gas says that in March 2018, when  Mrs R phoned, it agreed to change the cover by 
adding a £60 excess to be payable in the event of a claim under the policy, and also offered 
a discount on the normal price for that policy in order to keep her custom.  This meant it was 
able to reduce  the premium to £288.70.  
British Gas says the premium that had been quoted to Mrs R in the renewal documents had 
been correct and in line when taking  into account factors  such  as the make, model  and age 
of her boiler,  the size of the system  and availability of spare parts.  However, it tried to do 
everything it could to retain a loyal customers custom and managed to reduce the price to a 
suitable figure. British  Gas says that the reference price of £312  would be for new customers  
but once it knows  the age of the boiler  and other individual  factors, the price will almost 
always go up.
British Gas apologised for not replying to Mrs Rs complaint email of 15 February  2018  and 
sent a cheque for £30 as a gesture of goodwill.  It said that it no longer had any record  of the 
issue with the gas fire which had happened over six years ago. However,  once the engineer 
had made  the decision  that the gas fire was unsafe, it would no longer have charged for it.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the case.  She did not recommend that it be upheld. The 
adjudicator was satisfied that British Gas had applied  increases to Mrs Rs premiums which 
were in line with other customers and were not unfair.  The adjudicator was also satisfied  
that the offer of £30 British Gas made for the complaint handling errors  was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs R doesnt agree that this is reasonable. She says that while  she may not have been 
singled out, this does not mean the increase  in premium and British Gass  practice  of 
renewing at a higher price and reducing  it if a consumer complains is fair. There should  be 
complete transparency about how premiums  are calculated. 
Ref: DRN68741642Mrs R has also confirmed that she accepts  that the issue with the fire was due to the 
installer and that this cant be taken any further now. 
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are generally entitled to decide the premium they want to charge for the 
insurance provided. It isnt my role, to decide what  this premium should be. And 
consumers are free to choose whether they are willing to pay that premium;  obtain  
insurance elsewhere or not take the insurance at all. 
Normally insurers calculate a base premium rate for a policy and then other  factors  they 
consider relevant to the risk being  covered are applied, which might bring that base  
premium up or down. Different  insurers apply different factors. I cant  set out in detail the 
factors that British Gas consider relevant and apply to its policies, as these are 
commercially sensitive  but I have considered the information it has provided.
Mrs R had her policy  with British Gas from 2009  and she didnt engage on the price of it 
until 2018. I think British  Gas should  have  been  aware Mrs R wasnt  engaging with her 
renewal from 2014, after the policy had renewed for a fourth  time without engagement.  And 
I think its fair to say Mrs R was inert from this point. 
When the price of insurance continues to increase when a customer  is inert,  we expect the 
business to explain  the price increases. And demonstrate the customer has been treated 
fairly and consistently.  I dont have details of how much Mrs Rs premium increased by for 
every year it was in place,  British  Gas hasnt been able to provide  all of the historic price 
information. But it has provided the renewal  documents sent to Mrs R since 2015. In 2015  
the policy cost was £462.53, in 2016  £531,  in 2017  £555.07 and in 2018  it was £598.59 (at 
which point Mrs R phoned to complain about  the price).
British Gas has explained how these price increases were based on its view of the risk and 
that it applies these  factors to the policies  it insures. So I think its treated Mrs R fairly with 
regard to how it has priced her policy over the years. And that the price increases were not 
applied simply because  she wasnt engaging on the price.
When Mrs R called  to complain about  the price  of her insurance  in 2018 British  Gas 
changed the cover provided to Mrs R (introducing an excess to be paid in respect  of any 
claim under the policy)  which  significantly reduced the base rate premium. It also agreed to 
a discount in order to retain Mrs R as a customer in that year but this was entirely 
discretionary. Having  applied a discount in one year, it is not committed  to doing so in any 
following years.
British Gas provided documentation  to Mrs R in advance of her renewal each time the 
policy was due to renew,  which set out clearly the price it was intending to charge. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Mrs R was treated fairly  and in line with other customers; and Im 
not persuaded that the premiums have been calculated unfairly  or that British Gas needed 
Ref: DRN68741643to provide  any further information to Mrs R, who was free to choose another  policy  
elsewhere if she didnt  accept the premium.
British Gas did not handle the complaint as it should have done. This will have caused 
some frustration and inconvenience  and I am satisfied that the £30 already offered is fair 
and reasonable to reflect this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  The offer of £30 already made is reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6874164