K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained about  the cost of her private medical insurance policy, held with BUPA  
Insurance Limited. 
background
Ms A had held private medical insurance  cover with BUPA for many years. She became  
concerned about  the increase in the cost of her policy  at its renewal in 2018, even though 
her premium  was apparently subject to a discount  due to her membership of a particular 
scheme. She rang BUPA  as if she were a new customer and was given  a quote very similar 
to her renewal premium but for a policy which she considered was far superior to her 
existing policy. She complained to BUPA that it was treating its long-term customers unfairly.
BUPA didnt  uphold  her complaint. It explained the reasons for the increase in the price of 
her cover. It explained  that new customers wouldnt be covered for pre-existing conditions  
and so it should be expected that they would be offered cover for a cheaper  price than long-
standing customers
Ms A was unhappy  at BUPAs response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, BUPA 
had done nothing wrong.
Ms A didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  She said shed  made no claims under her 
policy for a number of years. She thought it was unfair that she should be paying  as much 
for her policy as a new customer would  pay for a policy  which offered far better cover,  
particularly if that new customer  had no pre-existing conditions.  She thought BUPA  was 
seeking to take advantage of its long-term  customers and especially those who were  on 
policies which BUPA no longer offered.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, it is a matter in which we dont normally interfere.
BUPA has explained  to Ms A the factors it takes into account in calculating  her premium. I 
consider these, which include her age, to be reasonable. I have  no grounds for saying that 
BUPA is seeking to take unfair advantage  either of her or of its long-term  customers 
generally. Ms A points out that she has made  no claims under the policy  for a number of 
years but she should be aware that under her policy, unlike on some of BUPAs other 
policies, Ms As individual  claims  behaviour has no effect on her individual  premium.
Ms A has drawn attention  to the fact that as a new customer she could take out what she 
considered to be a far better BUPA  policy for the same price that she was paying for her 
Ref: DRN69306392policy. However, BUPA has already explained that a new customer wouldnt be covered for 
pre-existing conditions which is why they could be offered a cheaper price  than existing 
customers. I think this explanation  is reasonable and I dont think the quote which Ms A 
obtained shows that she was necessarily being charged an unfair amount  for her cover. In 
the end, if Ms A wanted to replace  her cover by taking out the other  policy as a new 
customer (albeit without cover for pre-existing conditions) she was presumably free to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6930639