K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Ms G says Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Both parties agree this PPI was sold during a telephone call. Halifax doesnt have a copy 
of the call available  but this isnt surprising or unusual. So its difficult  for me to know  
what was discussed during the call and how the policy was presented to Ms G. But 
Halifax has given me a copy of a demands and needs statement that looks like it was 
completed by a representative of Halifax during the phone call. I can see it was 
recommended that she bought the cover.  So I think it likely that there  was some sort of 
discussion about PPI in which Ms G was offered  a choice in taking PPI  and that she 
subsequently took.
Ive also seen a copy of the credit  agreement. Theres section on the agreement  called 
product details. There are then two different products below this. I can see theres a 
cross in the box for PPI  but there isnt a cross in the box for the other  product. So I 
think Ms G would have noticed  that a policy had been added  once  shed have seen the 
agreement. And she could have contacted  Halifax  to have this removed had she not 
wanted it.
So on balance, I think its more likely that Halifax  made  it clear  that Ms G didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms G so it had to check the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems 
to have had a need for the cover.  
Ms G said she couldnt remember how much sick pay she would have got from her 
employer. But I think it likely that whatever the level of cover,  Ms G would have still had a 
use for the PPI. I say this because the policy would have paid out for up to 12 months 
per claim in addition to any sick pay she might have  got. 
Ms G said she could  have relied  on her family  and friends to help her with her credit  card 
repayments if she couldnt work. But the help of others  isnt guaranteed, and Ms Gs 
family and friends  may not have been in a position to help her when needed. And this 
PPI policy  would have  meant that she wouldnt have to rely on such help.
Ref: DRN64279392Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms G has said has said - including  what  she has said about 
being made redundant and that she didnt claim on the policy then, so this shows  she wasnt  
aware she had cover  in place. But this point doesnt change my decision.
Just because Ms G didnt make a claim when she was made redundant doesnt necessarily 
mean she didnt agree  to buy cover. I think it more likely that she forgot she had a policy in 
place  given  that taking  out an insurance  policy isnt a particularly  memorable experience. 
The cover was cancelled  in 2007,  so if Ms G was made redundant after shed already 
cancelled the policy, then shed have been  unable to make  a claim on the cover  anyway.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms G paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms G back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms G now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6427939