K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the cost of her home  insurance with U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI).
background 
Mrs B took out home insurance with UKI in 2007.  The premium increased  each  year firstly 
because of the introductory discount being  phased  out but also because of various claims 
Mrs B made, extra cover  added, and the general increase in risk calculation  for the policy.  
The policy auto renewed each year and Mrs B didnt query the premium  until 2018  after 
talking to her colleagues.  She found  a policy for a price that was considerably lower than she 
was quoted (less than a third) and UKI itself was able to quote her for a new policy  at £498  
against the £1.243  she was quoted to renew her old policy. She cancelled  her policy by 
agreement with UKI and only paid for the small amount of time the policy was on risk that 
year. She complained  to UKI about  the cost of the policy,  but was advised  that it was 
correctly priced.
After referral to this service, UKI reviewed the policy and agreed to take account  of the fact 
that Mrs B hadnt engaged with it over the price  for a number of years.  It proposed to cap the 
price of the policy at the 2013  premium  and to refund £1,300 including  interest at 8% per 
year on the refunded premiums. Mrs B wasnt happy with this and felt she should have 
refunded to her any cost shed paid to UKI over that of the policy  shed recently bought.  UKI 
wasnt willing to do that but was prepared  to cap the policy  cost at the 2010 premium and 
increase its offer to £1,900. After a further review it increased that offer to £2,500. Mrs B 
didnt accept that.
On review by our adjudicator she said that she thought UKIs offer was reasonable. She 
pointed out that new policies are often offered at substantial discounts  and that Mrs B had 
made a number of claims over the years  which would have affected the price of the policy.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont generally  tell insurers what they can charge in what is a competitive market.  But we
are concerned to see that they charge each  customer  fairly within  their own pricing criteria.
So any customer in a similar position  is charged  a price within a reasonable range for the
same risk criteria. I am generally satisfied that UKI charged for this policy within its own 
pricing criteria. The fact that there  are other policies available which  are cheaper doesnt 
mean that UKI overcharged  for this particular policy. I have noted  that UKI did itself offer a 
cheaper policy. This had different pricing  criteria  and would have  included  a new customer  
discount. I have  nevertheless  taken it into account  in deciding what  is fair and reasonable in 
this case.
Here, Mrs B first bought her policy with UKI in 2007.  She had an introductory discount which 
was phased out by 2009. But she also made  claims on the policy  in 2007, 2008 and 2009. 
Two of those claims werent progressed. But they nevertheless  would have affected the 
price of the policy. Mrs B made further claims in 2014 (not proceeded with)  and in 2018 
Ref: DRN61300612(claim paid). She also added personal  possessions cover in 2016 and added a watch to the 
policy in 2017.  All of these would have added to the cost of the policy.
Mrs B didnt contact UKI about the premiums she was paying until 2018. She has explained 
that she worked away from home for a number of years and while she would have liked to 
be closer to her finances she trusted the brand  and reputation of her insurer to give her a 
competitive premium. 
We do take the view that, where a customer clearly isnt making contact with the insurer, 
despite the policy auto renewing  each year, the insurer  should  make sure that a customer  is 
able to engage and understands that they can challenge their premiums or indeed shop 
around. In doing so, its often possible for a consumer to reduce the risk of paying too much 
for their insurance in what  is otherwise a competitive market.  Customers who dont  engage 
at renewal can sometimes be described as being  inert, allowing the policy  to automatically 
renew with little, or no, input in the process. That can sometimes  lead to a customer being 
potentially subject to detriment in terms of the price theyre asked to pay.
While I dont think Mrs B was inert  in that she made various claims over the years, added 
some cover and didnt review her policy as she was away  a lot, I do think UKI should  have  
taken note of the fact that Mrs B wasnt  engaging with it. So I think that UKI was right to look 
at capping the increase in the policy premiums from when it should  have noted that Mrs B 
wasnt engaging  with it over the price. It has taken that point  as 2010, which I consider to be 
fair bearing  in mind  that the introductory discount and previous claims wouldnt have been 
affecting the policy by then. Applying that, it has reduced the premiums  paid from then up 
until 2017 back to the cost of the policy in 2010. UKI has subsequently made a further 
reduction to bring  its offer of refund  up to £2,500.  I think thats fair, especially considering 
that the cost would have been affected by the two claims and the increases in cover since 
then.
So I think the proposed cost reduction is fair. It includes interest. I understand that UKIs 
offer is net of tax that it proposes to deduct  from the interest. I refer Mrs B to my decision 
below if she decides  to accept my decision  and if she needs to reclaim that tax from HMRC.
my final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already made an offer to resolve this complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that U K Insurance Limited  should pay compensation including  interest* to 
Mrs B of £2,500.
*U K Insurance  Limited is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct tax from that 
interest and should  tell Mrs B how much tax its taken off. Should  Mrs B request  it, UKI 
should provide  her with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if 
appropriate, she can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6130061