K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that Bank of Scotland  plc (Halifax)  mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs H say they had a mortgage with another lender but bought a policy from Halifax 
in June 2003. The policy covered Mr H only and wouldve provided a monthly benefit if hed 
been unable  to work due to accident or sickness.
The policy cost £19.95 each month and in the event of a successful claim wouldve paid a 
monthly benefit of £500 for up to 12 months.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed  and so the 
case has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax hasnt been able to give us all of the documents  from the time of the sale. But this 
isnt surprising given  that the sale took place more  than 15 years ago. But it does mean that I 
have to base my decision on what I think was most likely to have  happened  based on the 
information and documentation that I do have.
I dont know what was discussed about the policy or how it was presented to Mr and Mrs H. 
But Ive noted  that its a standalone PPI policy  it wasnt taken out at the same time as a 
loan or mortgage   so I think the policy mustve  been optional  and it cant  have been a 
condition of a loan application being approved.
Based on the information thats  available, I cant  fairly conclude  that Halifax  implied or stated 
that the policy was compulsory.  So overall  I think its more likely  than not that when Mr and 
Mrs H took out the PPI, they wanted to buy the policy  because  they thought the benefits 
could be useful to them.
Mr and Mrs H say they were advised to buy the policy. So if Halifax  advised Mr and Mrs H to 
buy PPI it wouldve needed  to take reasonable steps  to make sure that the policy was right 
for them.
Ive thought about the policy benefits, the cost of cover  and the overall financial 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs H from the time of the sale. I think that:
Mr H was eligible for the policy.
There wouldve been exclusions  and restrictions under the PPI, but it doesnt look like 
Mr H wouldve been caught out by any of them. He told us he was employed and in 
Ref: DRN63121292good health at the time of the sale  so I think he wouldve been able to claim on the 
policy if he had needed to do so.
Mr H told us that they was entitled  to employer benefits, including  sick pay for 
between 6 to 12 months.  
But I dont think this is enough for me to say the PPI wasnt suitable for Mr H. Policies 
like this are there to remove the pressure of meeting payments  in financially difficult 
times. If he was off work  sick, the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit that they 
couldve put towards their mortgage repayments.  This would  have given them peace 
of mind and would have allowed them to use any sick pay or savings for other 
necessary household expenses. There was no duplication with their employer 
benefits.
So overall, having considered all these  factors, I think that the policy  was suitable for them 
and wouldve provided them  with a useful benefit.
At the time the policy seems to have been affordable. It was competitively priced at about  
£20 a month and wouldve paid out a monthly  benefit of £500.
The PPI was paid for by a regular monthly  premium so the policy couldve been cancelled at 
any time without penalty if Mr and Mrs H could no longer  afford it or decided  they no longer 
needed the insurance.
So when I weigh everything up, I think that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H.
Halifax needed to make sure that Mr and Mrs H had enough information so that they could 
make a proper choice about whether  PPI was right for them. I dont  know how much detail 
the adviser went into with Mr and Mrs H or how things  were explained. But even if there 
were problems with the information and advice that Halifax  gave to Mr and Mrs H, I dont 
think it wouldve made a difference to their decision. I think  Mr and Mrs H would still have  
bought the policy. I say this because I think the policy was suitable for them  for the reasons 
Ive already given  above.
So, Ive decided that in this case Mr and Mrs H hasnt lost out as a result  of anything Halifax 
mightve done wrong in relation to the sale of PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6312129