K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained that a second  charge secured loan was mis-sold to her by Freedom 
Finance Limited  (FFL).
background
In January 2016 Ms B took out a secured loan with a business  I will call N for the purpose  of 
debt consolidation. The loan was arranged through  FFL during a series  of telephone calls in 
December 2015.  I note shed previously taken  out a loan with N for debt consolidation and 
home improvements in 2011.
Ms B borrowed £31,525, plus a broker fee of £3,625, making a total of £35,160. The loan 
was over a term of 20 years, with the first three years of the loan on a fixed  rate of 9.792% 
per annum.  After that it would revert to Ns Standard  Variable Rate.
The loan agreement  explained that Ms B had the right to end the agreement  at any time by 
paying the outstanding  balance, plus all future  payments (less a rebate).  This is calculated in 
line with the consumer Credit Act 1974.  Examples  were  set out for the early settlement of the 
loan, showing that if one quarter of the loan term had passed  (so five years), there would be 
£31,940.26 outstanding  on the loan, £25,695.95 after ten years and £15,849.23 after fifteen 
years.
Ms B signed the loan agreement on 9 January  2016.
In March 2019, just over three years  into the term, Ms B wanted to repay  the loan. She was 
quoted a settlement figure by N of just over £34,000. Ms N complained  to N, saying she had 
paid over £12,000 of the £35,160 shed borrowed. She found it hard to believe that, having 
done so, she still owed over £34,000.
Ms B complained to N that the loan had been  mis-sold. N didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B 
brought it to us where an investigator  looked at it. He didnt think  N had done anything  wrong  
and after explaining this to Ms B, she accepted his findings.
Ms B then complained about  FFL, saying that they had mis-sold the loan. Ms B said that it 
had never  been  explained  to her that interest was calculated  daily and she hadnt  been told 
that interest  would also be charged  on the broker fee.
FFL didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B asked us to look at it. The same investigator  whod 
considered the complaint against  N also looked  at the sale of the loan by FFL. After  doing 
so, he didnt think the loan had been mis-sold.
In a detailed email to Ms B dated 6 September 2019 (a copy of which FFL has also seen)  
the investigator set out all the details of the sales process, including  his summary of all the 
calls between Ms B and FFL (recordings of which had been sent to us). 
The investigator was satisfied that the loan hadnt  been mis-sold and that FFL had fully 
explained how the loan operated. He was also satisfied that the loan agreement set out that 
interest would  be charged on the broker fee.
Ms B didnt agree with the investigators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN61543272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
Ms B and FFL. Ive also listened to all the telephone call recordings.
I wont repeat here all the details of the calls between Ms B and FFL. Thats  because  the 
investigator has already  done that in his email to Ms B dated  6 September 2019,  and FFL 
has also seen a copy of that email.  The calls are a true and factual record  of what  was 
discussed at the point  of sale.
After listening to the calls and reviewing the loan agreement, Im satisfied that FFL properly 
explained to Ms B how this loan worked.  I note that Ms B specifically asked about the broker  
fee and that this was explained to her. The loan agreement says quite clearly that this fee 
will attract interest. The agreement also states that interest is calculated daily.
Im satisfied that the loan agreement shows how much would be outstanding at various  
points over the term of the loan. At the five-year point about  £32,000 would still be owed. 
Given this, although  Ms B says she was shocked to learn that only three years  into the term 
there was about  £34,000 outstanding,  this is in line with the way interest is applied to the 
capital balance  That, of course, is nothing to do with FFL, as it is not responsible  for the 
administration of the loan.
Overall, taking into account everything that was discussed at the point of sale, Im satisfied 
that this loan was not mis-sold  by FFL.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6154327