K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996 by post.  Mrs W says Bank of Scotland (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and explain why.
BoS had to make Mrs W aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  The application form Mrs W completed when she applied for her credit 
card had a separate section for PPI where the policy has been selected. The application 
form has also been signed by Mrs W in agreement with the selections that have been made. 
With this in mind I think BoS made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments, which included sick pay, rental income,  parents and that she could  have sold a 
boat. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mrs Ws sick pay. And while  Mrs W had 
income from a rental property, I dont think this could be guaranteed. In addition to this, while  
Mrs Ws parents  would have wanted  to help their ability  to would have been dependent  on 
their circumstances at the time, which could have changed. Having  the policy would also 
have prevented Mrs W from having to sell her boat.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Ref: DRN62625792Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6262579