K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading  as 118118  Money (MCF) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr Ks complaint has previously been  considered by another ombudsman who issued a 
provisional decision on the complaint in November 2020. I understand that both Mr K and 
MCF indicated that they accepted the provisional decision. However the original ombudsman 
is no longer working  on complaints of this nature. So the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. My decision, that I explain below, is the same as that provisionally reached by the 
original ombudsman.
Mr K was given a single  loan by MCF in April 2018. He borrowed £2,000 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. The loan remained outstanding  when Mr K brought  
his complaint to this Service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Ks complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time MCF  gave  this loan to Mr K required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so MCF  had to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr K. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr K undue 
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN64221312the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr K.
MCF gathered some information from Mr K before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess how much he 
was repaying to other creditors. And it discussed some of the details  about  the loan on a 
phone call with Mr K.
The credit check highlighted that Mr K hadnt always managed  his borrowing well in the past. 
He had defaulted on a number of other  accounts which still remained on his credit file. 
I accept that those defaults  had taken place a number of years earlier,  and so might not be 
representative of Mr Ks current financial position. But I think they should have led to MCF  at 
least undertaking some more detailed investigations.
Mr K was entering into a significant commitment with MCF. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So, given what I have said above, I would expect that 
MCF would want to gather, and independently check, some detailed  information about 
Mr Ks financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I dont therefore think  that the 
checks it did were  enough. I think it would have been proportionate for MCF to 
independently check the true state of Mr Ks finances before agreeing  the loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks MCF did before agreeing the loan were  sufficient, that 
in itself doesnt mean that Mr Ks complaint  should  succeed. Id also need to be persuaded 
that what I consider  to be proportionate checks would have shown MCF  that Mr K couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive looked  at Mr Ks bank statements, and what  hes 
told us about his financial situation, to see what better checks  would have shown MCF.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check  that MCF 
should have carried  out. I do think MCF needed evidence to corroborate what Mr K said was 
happening with his finances.  And looking at his bank  statements is one way of achieving  that 
although there are of course many  other  ways that level of detail could be established. But 
I think that by looking  at Mr Ks bank  statements  I can get a good  idea of what  better checks  
might have shown.
Mr Ks bank  statements  show  that he was already borrowing heavily from a range of other  
short term lenders.  And Mr K appears  to have been facing significant problems managing his 
expenditure. In the month before the loan was agreed Mr K spent more than double his 
normal income on what appear to be online gambling transactions. Mr K has told us that he 
had a serious gambling addiction at the time.  I think this information would have been clear 
to MCF had it done  what I consider to be proportionate checks.  And given the undoubted  
pressure on Mr Ks finances I think a reasonable lender  would have concluded it was 
unlikely that the loan could be repaid  in a sustainable manner.
Ref: DRN64221313So in summary,  I dont think the checks  MCF  did before agreeing this loan were sufficient. 
And I think that better  checks would have led to Mr Ks application  being  declined. So MCF  
needs to pay Mr K some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think MCF should have lent to Mr K in April 2018. So MCF should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr K made towards  this loan as payments towards the capital.
if reworking Mr Ks loan account as Ive directed results in Mr K effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then MCF  should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ks loan account leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, I remind 
MCF that it should  take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree  an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr K.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ks credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest.  MCF must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct  Madison CF UK Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6422131