K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) has declined  a claim 
she made on her car insurance policy. 
background
Mrs Cs car was stolen from her driveway but LV declined her claim because  they relied on 
the exclusion in her policy which said they wouldnt cover her for theft if the engine  of the car 
was left running. The policy terms say:
We wont pay for loss of damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if: 
-Your car has been left unlocked 
-Your car has been left with a window or roof open;
-The engine has been left running;  
-We have stated  you must have a working  security or tracking device when  your car is 
unattended  your schedule will confirm if this is required;
-The ignition key or other ignition device is left in, on or attached to or left in the 
immediate proximity of your car. 
This exclusion is highlighted as a significant exclusion or limitation in the key facts 
document which summarises the policy.
my first provisional  decision 
In my provisional decision I explained  I was intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I said Id 
found her evidence to be credible and persuasive and I thought  it was most likely she 
thought shed locked her car. 
I also thought  there  were  mitigating factors  because  Mrs C was on crutches  and was 
distracted by being in a hurry to get her granddaughter ready for school. And I took into 
account pictures which I thought indicated the car was visible  from the hallway and front 
room of the house. 
Mrs C accepted my provisional  findings.  LV responded to say that they were  disappointed 
that I had overturned the original decision. In summary, they said:  
Although Mrs C may have thought shed locked  the car the fact that it was stolen in 
such a short period of time is evidence that it wasnt
Its not unfair for LV rely on the relevant policy exclusion in the circumstances of this 
case
 
It was Mrs Cs responsibility to understand the functionality of the car 
They didnt think it was fair to conclude that Mrs C was standing at the front door, or 
in the front room, because she didnt see the thief
Mrs C didnt take appropriate action to prevent the theft 
My decision isnt consistent with previous decisions reached by our service. 
Ref: DRN65878412my second  provisional  decision
Having reviewed all of the evidence again,  and taken into account the further 
representations, I issued a second  provisional decision. I explained that I was no longer 
intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  My provisional findings  were: 
Its accepted by Mrs C the engine was running  and she told LV that when  she first 
made her claim. The policy wording  Ive outlined above explains that claims for theft 
wont be covered if the engine is running.  So, as I said in my provisional decision,  
this exclusion is relevant. But the issue in this complaint is whether its fair for LV to 
rely on it; 
Mrs Cs car was keyless.  The manufacturer  has confirmed the car couldnt have 
been locked if the engine  was running. And, as Mrs C had both keys,  its unlikely 
anyone else opened it. So Im satisfied the car wasnt  locked when the engine was 
running;
In my provisional decision I said I was satisfied  Mrs C believed shed locked the car 
and I could understand why she wouldnt have expected the car to be driven without 
a key. LV has made a number  of representations  on this point. LV says it was for 
Mrs C to understand how the car worked when the key was, and wasnt,  in the 
ignition. Theyve also pointed out theres  no evidence of Mrs C carrying out 
additional checks to check the car was secure. Ive found  that argument persuasive 
in the circumstances of this case.  Whilst I accept Mrs C might have thought shed 
locked the car the evidence suggests she hadnt. And I dont think its fair to hold LV 
responsible for the claim because Mrs C hadnt realised how the keyless  system  
operated; 
In my provisional decision I explained  that due to the positioning of the car on the 
driveway it seemed  likely it was visible from the hallway  and the front room of the 
house. Whilst I think the car could be seen from that part of the house  Ive 
re-considered Mrs Cs evidence on that point. She didnt see or hear the thief driving 
the car away. So it seems  unlikely  she was actually watching the car throughout the 
time she was in the front room.  Ive re-considered all of that evidence  together  with 
the incident report. When Mrs C reported the theft her daughter told LV Mrs C had 
been away for A minute, if that. She also said that Mrs C had gone into the 
house. Taking  all of this into account  Im not persuaded Mrs C could  have had the 
car in her view for the time she was in the house; 
I outlined a number  of mitigating factors in my first provisional decision. Ive taken  
into account that the engine was running,  the car wasnt locked and Mrs C didnt see 
the theft. And Ive also taken into account  that, whilst the driveway was private, it 
opened onto a public road and was visible from that road;  
Having taken all of the circumstances into account Im now persuaded it is fair for LV 
to rely on the relevant exclusion in this case and decline Mrs Cs claim for the 
reasons Ive outlined  above. 
I asked LV and Mrs C to let me know if they had anything further to add. LV didnt add any 
further comments. Mrs C replied and made a number of further points. In summary she said:  
Ref: DRN65878413The case  should be allocated  to a different ombudsman. Ive changed my mind  once 
and human nature suggests  its doubtful Ill change my mind again
I should uphold  the complaint for the reasons I gave in my first provisional  decision 
Mrs C thought shed  locked the car. Most people wouldnt imagine  its impossible for 
the car to be locked  when the engine  is running 
This issue  wasnt drawn to Mrs Cs attention when she bought the car and car 
owners shouldnt  have to pour over the manual to learn every  part of the cars 
functionality
Mrs C didnt leave the keys in the car and she still has both sets (she provided  a 
picture as evidence of this)
The conclusions I reached in my second  provisional decision go against  the spirit  of 
the technical note available on our website  most  peoples driveways open onto a 
public road. Mrs Cs house was in a quiet residential street,  the driveway was private 
and the driveway  was in close proximity  to the house
I hadnt commented on the point  raised  by LV about the consistency  with previous 
decisions issued by our service.  
So I need to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has asked for a different ombudsman to look at the complaint because  its doubtful  Ill 
change my mind a second time.  My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable taking into 
account the evidence. Mrs C has had the opportunity to make further representations and, if 
I found her arguments  persuasive, it would be open  to me to issue a further  provisional  
decision.    
As I explained in my first and second provisional  decisions LV has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The further 
representations from Mrs C havent changed my thoughts about  the outcome of this 
complaint. 
I remain satisfied that its fair for LV to rely on the relevant exclusion in this case  and decline 
the claim.  I say that because: 
I appreciate that Mrs C thought shed locked the car. But, as I outlined  in my 
provisional decision, she couldnt  have  done  as the engine  was still running.  Its 
unfortunate that this wasnt explained  to Mrs C when she bought  the car. And I 
appreciate owners arent expected to go through the user manual in great detail. But 
I think this was an important feature of this car and it was a feature which was directly  
relevant to the risk of it being  stolen and Mrs Cs insurance policy.  So I think  its 
something Mrs C ought reasonably to have been familiar with
Ref: DRN65878414Im aware Mrs C has both the sets of keys to the car and thats  not in dispute.  
However, as Ive outlined above I do think understanding  the functionality  of the car 
was something that was her responsibility
Mrs C has referred  to an online  technical note produced by our service  which  
explains we pay particular attention to whether the driver  was in a position to deter  
the thief, or make  the theft unlikely. In this case Mrs C went  into the house and didnt 
have the car in her view. She was away from the car for, a minute,  if that. 
Mrs C wasnt able to prevent the theft as she wasnt in the cars immediate vicinity 
and she didnt have  it in her view. So I think it was unlikely  she was in a position to 
deter the thief or make  the theft unlikely. This is supported by the fact Mrs C didnt 
hear or see the car being taken
I appreciate that Mrs Cs car was on a private driveway and was relatively close to 
the house. And Ive thought about the point Mrs C has made  about  lots of peoples  
driveways opening onto public roads. But my role is to assess  the evidence  in this 
case. Mrs Cs driveway opened onto a public road and the car was visible  from it. So 
I do think this is relevant in the circumstances of this case bearing in mind  Mrs C 
wasnt in the immediate vicinity of the car and didnt have it in her view 
LV did refer me to previous decisions made  by our service. I considered  the points 
made by LV in relation to those cases. However, every case  is different and the 
circumstances of the cases were quite  different  to Mrs Cs case. So, whilst I 
considered the points  LV made in relation to the previous decisions, they werent 
central to the decision Im making  in this case.    
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6587841