K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Catalyst Housing Limited  should pay him compensatory interest  for a 
period when it wasnt complying with the Consumer Credit Act. 
background
Mr T has an equity  loan with Catalyst on an interest-only basis  advanced in 2010 which Mr T 
has now redeemed. In November 2015 Catalyst sent Mr T a letter detailing a period of non-
compliance with the Consumer  Credit  Act and refunding him the interest charged during this 
period. Catalyst said that it had issued statements that werent compliant with the Consumer 
Credit Act and under the terms of the Act it refunded interest to Mr T for the period  when  it 
wasnt complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as Catalyst  had met 
its obligations under  the terms of the Act. Mr T disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In November 2015, Catalyst alerted Mr T that some  of the documentation it sent to him 
including annual statements werent  compliant with the Consumer Credit Act and that it was 
refunding the interest that he had paid for the period that this happened.  Mr T borrowed 
money from Catalyst and paid the capital back together with interest as he agreed to do. The 
Consumer Credit Act gives protections to borrowers  and penalises  lenders if the lender is in 
breach of sections  of the Act.  In this case the Act prescribed that because  of a technical 
breach in the documentation that the interest  should be refunded to Mr T.
Mr T believes that Catalyst  should also refund interest on the interest  as he paid out this 
money to Catalyst and didnt have the benefit of it whilst it was held by Catalyst. Mr T made  
the payments  to Catalyst for getting a loan. Because of breaches of the Act, Catalyst 
refunded the interest to Mr T as prescribed.  My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable. 
This isnt a case of mis-selling,  or as Mr T suggests  similar to mis-selling,  where Mr T was 
induced to unfairly pay out money  to Catalyst but a technical breach. I dont believe that 
Catalyst was wrong  to collect the money from Mr T as that was the agreement between the 
parties. But the Act says that because of Catalysts non-compliance  Mr T has no liability to 
pay it interest and that interest has been  refunded. The effect is that Mr T will have had the 
benefit of Catalysts  money - the initial loan - without having had to pay interest  on it for a 
period of time. So, in fairness, I dont believe that I can fairly  require  Catalyst to pay any 
additional sum to Mr T. On that basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN63688112my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6368811