K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Gain Credit  LLC,  trading as Lending Stream,  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
background
Mr P took out four instalment loans with Lending Stream  between July 2015  and
December 2015.  The loans were repayable in six, monthly repayments. Mr P repaid all the 
loans. A summary  of Mr Ps lending with Lending Stream  is as follows:
date£ amount
borroweddate repaid
15 July 2015 400 1 March 2016
210 September 2015 350 1 March 2016
331 October 2015 600 1 March 2016
411 December 2015 110 1 March 2016
Mr P says that he couldnt afford  to repay  the loans and that they prevented him from 
meeting his essential living expenses. He wants a refund of the sums  advanced,  interest and 
charges, with interest. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ps complaint. He said that Lending Stream shouldnt  
have given Mr P loan four and he set out what it should do to put matters right. Lending 
Stream agreed with the adjudicators view but Mr P didnt. He asked that an ombudsman 
consider his complaint, so it was passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN69015152the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mr P could sustainably  repay  his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Lending  Stream  has agreed  with the 
adjudicators view in relation  to loan four and I think thats fair in relation to that loan. Loans 
one to three remain in dispute, so thats what Im looking at here. 
I dont think that Lending  Stream was wrong  to give Mr P loans one to three. Given  the 
repayment amounts,  what was apparent  about Mr Ps circumstances at the time and his 
history with the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending  
Stream to ask Mr P for the amount of information  needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr P provided or the information 
Lending Stream shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate for it 
to start verifying what Mr P said at that stage. 
I appreciate that when  Mr P asked for loan three, he hadnt repaid  loans  one and two but his 
repayments were up to date at that point. So, there was nothing to alert Lending Stream to 
the possibility  that Mr P was having difficulties  managing his money.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Ps lending  history with Lending Stream, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which the pattern of lending  itself indicted that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Given  the number of loans and the months 
over which the lending took place,  I dont think that the pattern  of lending, in itself, is 
sufficient to conclude  that Lending Stream shouldnt have lent to Mr P. 
As Ive said,  Lending Stream  has now agreed  to put things right in relation to loan four. I 
think thats fair and I dont  think it needs to do any more.  
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on loan four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN69015153remove any negative  information about  loan four from Mr Ps credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint in part. Gain Credit LLC,  
trading as Lending Stream, should pay Mr P compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6901515