K820x#14Complaint
Mr M and Mrs M have  complained about  the sale of a decreasing term assurance policy by 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS). Theyre also unhappy that they werent advised to 
cancel it when they later paid off their mortgage.
Background
Mr M and Mrs M took out the policy, which included critical  illness cover,  in September 2002.  
The policy initially  provided cover  of £84,800  which decreased  over the 25 year term.
In 2018 Mr M and Mrs M complained about  the sale of it. They  said they were forced to take 
it but didnt need it as Mr M had adequate employee benefits including a death in service 
benefit. They also complained that RBS told Mr M in 2006  that he should keep the policy  in 
place, despite  paying the mortgage off. Mr M said he shouldve  been advised to cancel  it or 
RBS shouldve done so on his behalf.
RBS didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. It said it was a condition  of Mr M and 
Mrs Ms mortgage that they had suitable  life cover in place for the duration of the loan and 
they had agreed  to the policy that had been  recommended to them. RBS said Mr Ms death 
in service benefit wasnt sufficient as it would end when he left his job with that employer. It 
also said it was Mr Ms responsibility to cancel the policy if it was no longer  needed.
Our investigator didnt  think the policy had been mis-sold. He asked RBS for any evidence of 
the discussions that took place in 2006, but it said there wasnt  any evidence to show  Mr M 
had been advised to keep  the policy. The investigator also thought this was unlikely.
Mr M and Mrs M asked  for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. Mr M and Mrs M 
accepted that the policy  was most likely  required to secure the mortgage with RBS. But they 
didnt accept the investigators findings about  RBSs  failure to cancel the policy in 2006.  
Mr M said it was illogical for him to have kept the policy as it didnt cover his new mortgage, 
which was substantially larger, and his new mortgage provider didnt require life cover to be 
in place. He said they only kept it and continued to pay for it because theyd been told to.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr M and Mrs M so Id like to explain why.
As Mr M and Mrs M accepted the investigators  findings with regard to the sale of the policy,  
I wont be addressing  this point in detail.  But for completeness, Im satisfied that life 
assurance was a condition of the mortgage.  I also think it was fair for RBS to say that a 
death in service benefit wasnt suitable for this purpose. This is because  as per the loan 
offer, life assurance  was required over the full mortgage term but Mr Ms death  in service 
benefit wouldve  only been guaranteed for as long as Mr M remained with his employer. It 
also doesnt appear that Mrs M had life cover, or that either of them had any critical illness  
cover, so overall  I think  the policy was suitable for them.
Mr M says that he recalls closing the mortgage  account in a local branch in 2006.  He says 
that when he asked about the policy, the adviser informed him that he would need to keep 
the protection plan in place for any future mortgage.
Ref: DRN62678682RBS has searched the branch records for any information relating to the mortgage 
redemption but it couldnt find any details of this conversation. This isnt surprising given the 
time thats  passed.  Where there is a disagreement  over the facts  and there  isnt any 
documentary evidence  to prove what happened, I have to decide what I think most  likely 
happened.
Given Mr Ms recollections, I think there  probably  was a discussion about  the policy when 
the mortgage was closed.  But Im not persuaded that the RBS representative told Mr M and 
Mrs M that they needed to keep the policy in place. Its important to understand that whilst  
the policy was sold by RBS, the contract  existed  between  Mr M and Mrs M and the insurer,  
which was a different  company. Mr M and Mrs M paid the monthly premiums  to the 
insurance company,  so RBS had nothing to gain from Mr M and Mrs M keeping  the policy 
going. So, I think its unlikely Mr M was told he needed to keep it. That said, Mr M and 
Mrs Ms policy had a moving house option,  which meant the policy could be amended if 
certain criteria  were  met. So, its possible he was told that he could  use the policy  to protect  
a future  mortgage, which is correct.
Mr M says that RBS should be able to demonstrate that they advised Mr M and Mrs M to 
cancel the policy or have  cancelled the policy on their behalf. But as Ive said above, it 
wouldnt be for RBS to advise this. As Mr M and Mrs M took a new mortgage  with another 
provider, it wouldve fallen  to the new mortgage  adviser to determine whether any existing 
cover was required going forwards. RBS also couldnt have cancelled the contract  on their 
behalf  this can only be done by the policyholder.
Its also worth noting that Mr M and Mrs M had the benefit of this cover  whilst it remained in 
place. The policy wasnt assigned to the bank, so they wouldve received the lump sum 
benefit had the claim  criteria been  met. For this reason, I wont  be asking RBS to provide a 
refund of premiums.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6267868