K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly rejected a claim  she made under 
a buildings  insurance policy. She is represented in this complaint, but Ill only refer to her 
throughout, which relates to what she and her representative have  said or provided.
background
I issued a provisional decision last month explaining why UKI should deal with Mrs Ls claim. 
UKI accepted my provisional decision as did Mrs L although she has provided further details  
about her losses and state  of repairs at the property.
The claim
It wasnt clear  at what stage the property  rectifications were,  or whether Mrs L had paid to 
have all the damage repaired.  I asked  UKI for a copy of the schedule  of works drawn up by 
its agent so I could evaluate a more  certain  outcome for this complaint. 
UKIs agent had caused further  damage  to contents within the property because  of the way it 
set up the dehumidification.  UKI said its agent  had offered £500, which  Mrs L had accepted 
even though she said the value was around £3,500. 
Mrs Ls losses
Mrs L advised that she hadnt had any repair work  carried  out on her new home  as there  
were insufficient funds available. And there  were  only a small  number of plug sockets  that 
could be used in the kitchen area due to the state  of the property. The general electrical 
wiring wasnt safe and there was no heating. In summary, Mrs L thinks  UKI should pay her 
around £38,000 for the following;
17 return trips to the property
Storage for contents
Council tax as she was paying this on two properties as she couldnt move  in to her 
new home
Loss of rental income on the property she intended to move out of
Food costs as no useable facilities in the damaged home
The balance between what UKIs agent  paid for damaging contents and the £500 she 
had accepted.
Compensation for loss of enjoyment of the home
UKIs reply
UKIs thoughts on Mrs Ls losses can be summarised as;
Travel costs are unjustified
Mrs L didnt have  contents cover so storage  costs arent covered
As Mrs L owns two properties,  she must pay two sets of council tax
Loss of rent isnt covered as the policy isnt a landlords policy
Food costs are unreasonable
Mrs L accepted  its agents offer of £500 for damaged contents so cant  now look to 
claim back the difference
Ref: DRN65573432my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the recent replies  from both 
parties.
What became apparent during this complaint is that Mrs L had previously engaged the 
services of an architect to draw up house  extension plans, which  had been submitted for 
planning approval before she complained to us. And extension works have, according to 
Mrs L, been completed. I queried the availability of funds to put the escape of water  damage 
right where funds were  available  to pay the architect and for the extension.  Mrs L said her 
representative had advised her to leave the damage  until our process was complete.
How Mrs L chose to use the available funds was a matter for her. She chose to plan for and 
complete an extension to the property while not making the main home more habitable 
leaving it damp and cold. Mrs L may have  taken advice from her representative to leave the 
damage untouched, but I dont find it reasonable that Mrs L paid for planning and building an 
extension after her claim had been  declined but left the main property without safe electrics 
and heating. So, to that end I dont find it fair to require UKI to pay for most of the losses 
Mrs L has claimed.
Its also relevant within the information weve received from Mrs L that she had never 
intended to rent out her original property, rather she intended to sell it. Had she used 
available funds to carry out some  basic  repairs rather than a planning  application and 
building extension, the house would have been habitable and issues  like travel, rental, 
storage, council tax and food would not have arisen.
Ive thought carefully about the difference in damaged contents that Mrs L has claimed.  
There wasnt a dispute about liability rather it was about the value claimed and 
substantiation of items damaged and whether  beyond economical repair.  While  UKI says 
Mrs L accepted  £500  from its agent Ive seen in UKIs file that there was an agreement to 
make an offer of £1,500. It doesnt  seem that this amount was offered  to Mrs L but I think  it 
strikes a reasonable compromise  between  the parties.
I appreciate Mrs L has said shes lost the enjoyment  of her new home  while residing in her 
original home. I accept that having  the claim rejected was frustrating  but having two homes 
some distance apart was always going  to be a hurdle of inconvenience for Mrs L to deal 
with. Indeed, she bought  what  she describes  as a grubby house with a view to doing  it 
up and one where she would have lived in until renovations started. I balance this with the 
choice to build a new extension as opposed  to making the main  home  habitable with safe 
electrics and heating.  So, while there was undoubtable disappointment, Im satisfied there  
was limited impact on distress and inconvenience. As such, I find £250  is a fair 
compensatory amount to award. 
The most substantive  part to be dealt  with though is the repair of the water damage. UKI has 
explained that in this case it would  not instruct its own contractors to carry out repairs  but 
enter in to negotiations with Mrs Ls appointed representative (a loss adjuster). A draft 
schedule of works had been drawn up by a building surveyor and apparently shared with the 
representative. If it hasnt  been shared, then Id expect UKI to do so forthwith.  However, UKI 
has apparently made a cash  offer of £64,554  plus VAT (VAT ordinarily paid when receipts  
are sent in detailing  the VAT paid on insured  related works) to Mrs Ls representative.
Ref: DRN65573433While the policy allows UKI to make a cash settlement instead of carrying out repairs, Im not 
satisfied its fair that UKI should  benefit  from any discounted rate it might  achieve had it 
appointed its own contractors. Thats because Mrs L could be significantly disadvantaged as 
she is highly  unlikely to benefit from the same bargaining power that UKI has. Therefore, if 
UKI offers a discounted amount Mrs L may not be able to have the insured damage  repaired 
in full because  shell be paying market rate.
It seems  to me that UKIs initial offer (£64,554 plus VAT) is the starting  point and Mrs L and 
UKI will need to agree  the extent of insured related  works required and then the cost of 
those works,  most likely through a tendering  process as is usual in claims like this. My role 
isnt to handle  Mrs Ls claim rather to make a decision on the complaint brought  to us so that 
she and UKI can move  on with the next steps.
In terms of the repairs required there is no issue  now that the claim will be paid by UKI. 
Mrs Ls representative seemingly holds a relevant qualification, and indeed works for a 
company specialising in loss adjusting  and insurance claims. The first step will be for UKI 
and the representative to agree what damage  is covered by the policy  as a result of the 
escape of water. And then they will need  to agree on the cost of repairs  through a tendering 
process (unless UKIs  initial offer is accepted  by Mrs L). For the avoidance of doubt,  the 
extent of damage is not an issue before  me and so we havent investigated that or reached 
any conclusion, provisional or otherwise, about  what needs to be repaired and how much 
that should reasonably cost. These matters will be addressed and agreed between Mrs L 
(via her representative)  and UKI should  Mrs L except this decision.
I outlined the above findings  to both parties  recently;  UKI had nothing  to add but Mrs L sent 
a further response, which can be summarised as follows;
She wishes to proceed with a tendering process rather  than UKIs initial cash  
settlement
Time was spent  cleaning up and killing mildew in the absence  of help from UKI and 
she wants to be compensated for this
Originally Mrs L said shed receive alternative accommodation during the repair  
works and wants to know this still stands.
The issue  about  cleaning  up is something  that can be considered within  the general 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  there  being no substantiation of financial loss. 
Having considered the insurance policy UKI has sent us, I can see that there  appears to be 
cover for comparable alternative accommodation  under both the buildings and contents 
sections of up to £50,000  and £25,000  respectively (according  to the insurance quote but 
UKI will be able to confirm the limits  from the policy taken out). This is conditional  on the 
home or part of the home not being  fit to be lived in while being repaired. 
Whether the home  is fit to be lived in during the repairs is a matter that should be addressed 
by those parties tendering for the work who will be able to give detail about whats required 
and for how long. And if accommodation is required then it will be subject to the policy limits.
On a final point,  I have considered Mrs Ls point about cleaning up, but for the reasons 
detailed earlier in this decision Im not persuaded to increase the compensation even taking 
this point into account. The nature of the claim itself was always going to cause a level of 
distress and inconvenience. And Mrs L bought  the home knowing it was grubby and 
intended for it to be a renovation project  that would necessarily cause disruption. This would 
require effort and time to create the new property  Mrs L wanted. Im satisfied £250 in all the 
circumstances is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN65573434my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited, and it to do 
the following;
Pay Mrs L £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience1
Pay Mrs L £1,500  to reflect the damaged contents
Pay Mrs L a cash amount to settle  the escape  of water claim, which will be subject to;
oAn amount  agreed through  a tendering  process of at least two tenders at market 
rate, and so not at an inflated  rate or discounted rate from either  Mrs Ls 
representatives or UKIs preferred providers.
oShould the home be unfit to be lived in during  the repairs then provide alternative 
accommodation in line with the policy terms and limits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
1 UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs L accepts  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation  from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN65573435Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs L complains  that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI)  unfairly rejected  a claim  she made under  a 
buildings insurance policy.
background
Mrs L was in the process of buying a new home to live in around  September 2017.  She had 
completed some details online with a view to buying  insurance for the home but couldnt complete the 
process. So, she called UKI to finalise the sale and change the start date of the policy. During the call 
with UKI Mrs L explained that her correspondence address was different as she was yet to move into 
the property  to be insured. And there was some faffing about with the completion date but needed  
insurance in place  for completion. 
At the start of early  March 2018 Mrs Ls new property suffered an escape of water which  caused 
extensive damage. When she came to make a claim UKI refused cover based  on an exclusion in the 
policy. The policy excluded damage  caused by escaping  water when it has been more  than 60 
days since you last slept at your home on a regular basis (which doesnt  include occasional  visits  or 
stays).
Mrs L thought UKI had treated her unfairly  as she (or family members) had stayed regularly in the 
property prior to the damage being found to renovate and move  contents. But UKI said on Mrs Ls 
own timeline there was only one occasion where  she had stayed for five consecutive  days within  a 
60-day timeframe. Although there were 15 other days of occupancy, these were spread  out.
One of our investigators investigated Mrs Ls complaint and explained why he thought  UKI had acted  
unfairly. He pointed out that;
the policy  didnt define regular basis  so he considered the dictionary definition.
the property was occupied for five days in October 2017, 10 days in December  2017 and five 
days in February  2018, while being renovated, so had been stayed  in regularly. 
The quote  Mrs L received said there were no exclusions for the home  being unoccupied  for 
60 days
The investigator concluded  UKI should deal with Mrs Ls claim. He also said UKI had delayed giving a 
final response to Mrs L (taking around 15 weeks) and although this was only raised  by Mrs L when 
she came  to us, UKI should  consider a gesture of goodwill to resolve  that part of the complaint.
UKI disagreed  with the investigator saying the following;
The quote  Mrs L received shows 60 days is the maximum the property can be left unattended 
without the policy being declared void.
Mrs L said shed call back after taking the policy out to say when shed  moved in but didnt.
Mrs L was told to read all the policy documentation and its up to her to read the claim 
conditions and identify  those applicable.
If Mrs L told UKI she hadnt yet permanently moved in an endorsement  would  have been 
placed on the policy  advising  her to turn water off in the winter months.
The 20 nights Mrs L stayed at her property were over several months and UKI only 
considered the 6o day period before the loss. In this time Mrs L had stayed there on one 
occasion and this isnt regular.
As the parties couldnt reach agreement the matter has been  passed to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN65573436my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The issue to be decided is narrow and is whether UKI rejected Mrs Ls claim fairly based on the 
property not being regularly occupied within  60 days of the damage. For ease that period ran from 
around 4 January 2018.  
UKI is required to communicate  information  to its clients in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.
The quote Mrs L obtained  online, which  she then purchased, prominently stated;
Reasons to rely on Churchill for home insurance
24-hour emergency helpline
Legal  advice helpline
Only pay one excess if you need to make a claim
No exclusions for your home being  unoccupied  for 60 days (my emphasis)
12 month guarantee on all building  works carried out by our approved  repairers
No admin fees for amending your policy
New for old as standard
The main issues UKI has are that Mrs L hadnt permanently moved into the property before the 
escape of water occurred. And the policy excludes claims  for damage when  it has been more than 60 
days since Mrs L last slept at the property on a regular  basis  (which doesnt include occasional visits 
or stays).
The obligation on UKI to communicate information in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading isnt 
restricted to policy documents. It covers information and Im satisfied that includes things like 
promotions, marketing  and in this case the details given on a quote. 
Mrs L said she relied on Churchills  statement that there  was no exclusion where her home was 
unoccupied for 60 days. And indeed, she had explained when buying  the policy  that she hadnt yet 
moved in and gave details of an alternative correspondence address. 
The Reasons  to rely on Churchill presents as akin to promises or highlight enticing features that 
the potential customer (given  it was a quote) should feel reassured that Churchill offers those listed 
features. The reality though is that the 60-day feature  carries a significant caveat, which is only 
apparent when reading the policy  document. That caveat is the requirement to have been sleeping at 
the property  on a regular basis but that doesnt include occasional visits or stays.  None of these  
requirements are defined  in the policy.
The content  of the two documents in my view is unclear and misleading.  The information on the quote  
about the 60-day unoccupancy  is far removed  from what UKI state in its policy. Alternative policies  
that would have  covered Mrs Ls circumstances were available, including from UKI, and Im satisfied 
that the misleading information has resulted  in a detriment to Mrs L. 
The investigator and UKI have commented on the definition of regular basis and I think its enough in 
the context  of this case to look at the frequency of visits. Mrs L stayed  in October,  missed November, 
stayed in December,  missed  January and stayed in February. I think  this shows a pattern of staying 
every other  month (and each stay was a minimum  of 5 days). Im satisfied that Mrs L stayed at the 
property on a regular basis.
The next part of the policy  UKI has referred to is that excluded from a regular basis  are occasional 
visits or stays. I think occasional connotes with infrequency and irregularity, but Im satisfied that 
Mrs L demonstrated she stayed there on a regular basis.
Ref: DRN65573437In my view UKIs documentation, taken as a whole,  is unclear  and misleading. Even though UKI is 
unlikely to agree, I am satisfied that Mrs L stayed  at the property on a regular basis.
The claim
It isnt clear at what  stage  the property  rectifications  are, or whether Mrs L has paid to have all the 
damage repaired. I understand UKI had an agent visit the property and draw up a schedule of works 
but I havent seen the detail of this. So, Im not able to specify  an amount that UKI should  pay to settle 
the claim. Of course, if the repairs havent been carried  out then UKI would  be entitled to instruct  
contractors to carry out the repairs.  
Im also aware  that UKIs agent caused further damage to contents within  the property because of the 
way it set up the dehumidification. Mrs L didnt have contents cover but UKI and its agents  should  
take reasonable  care not to cause  further and unnecessary damage.  It doesnt look like UKI disputes 
what its agent  did but what is in dispute is the amount to be paid. £500 was offered but Mrs L believes 
she should get around £3,500.  It would be for Mrs L to substantiate the property she says was 
damaged by UKIs agent.
I understand that the property was to be a main  residence  and was damaged early in the moving in 
and renovation period.  Im not aware  what impact the delay in dealing with the claim has had and so 
Im not able to consider  whether a compensatory  award would be fair in the circumstances.
my provisional  decision
Im provisionally  minded  to uphold this complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited to deal with 
Mrs Ls claim by repair  or cash settlement.
Ref: DRN6557343