K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined his buildings 
insurance claim.
Mr Ds been represented  at times during  this complaint. For ease Ive referred to 
representatives comments  as being those of Mr D.
background
In November 2019 I issued a provisional decision.  It forms part of this final decision. Ive 
attached a copy. In it I explained why I didnt intend  to require Lloyds to pay the claim. I felt it 
was fair for it to rely on a coastal erosion exclusion to refuse  it. I also asked Lloyds and Mr D 
to provide any additional information they would  like me to consider before  I issued  a final 
decision.
Lloyds accepted the provisional decision findings. It didnt offer any further  information,  
although it did provide some  I had requested. Mr D didnt accept what  I said. He provided a 
range of information and points for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. I understand this will be very 
disappointing and frustrating for Mr D. But having  done so, I still think  it was fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the coastal erosion  exclusion to refuse the claim. 
As this is an informal service I havent responded here to every  point  and piece of 
information provided by Mr D. Instead  Ive only addressed those that seem the most 
significant. But I would like to reassure him that Ive considered everything said or provided.
Mr Ds made  some  comments regarding the sale of the policy. This complaint hasnt 
considered the sale  just the claim. If Mr D would like the sale looked  at by this service he 
will need  to raise those  points in a separate  complaint to Lloyds.
He also provided  various  information and arguments  to support his position that the cause of 
the damage was storm or landslip. Ive considered all of it - including photos,  weather reports 
and his technical explanations.  
Mr D says storm was the proximate cause so Lloyds cant rely on the coastal erosion 
exclusion to refuse the claim. He feels the storm was the first in a chain of events,  with none 
intervening, that resulted in the damage to his property. So storm is the proximate cause  or 
dominant cause. 
Ive considered what Mr D says, along with the relevant insurance caselaw. As I said 
previously, I accept the weather (regardless  of whether it meets the policy definition of a 
storm) seems  likely  to have played a part in the coastal erosion. It seems generally accepted 
that it and other factors like waves and human action play their part in the process of coastal 
erosion. 
There may have been a significant weather event  with winds and heavy rainfall. It may well 
have contributed to the erosion. The coastal erosion may have been  more rapid than in 
Ref: DRN63366552previous periods. But Im still persuaded the dominant or proximate cause  of the damage to 
Mr Ds house was the erosion of the coastline  it sat on  not a storm. So its fair for Lloyds to 
apply the relevant exclusion.
If I accepted both storm and coastal  erosion  were  proximate  causes  it would still be fair for 
Lloyds to rely on the latters exclusion.  Caselaw  sets out that where there  are two proximate 
causes insurers can rely on one, if its excluded, to refuse a claim.   
Mr D also says landslip was the cause of damage. It was a consquence of sudden 
downward movement  of land under the house.  He says landslip was caused by the weight of 
both heavy rainfall and his home on the land. Hes described this as surcharge. So he says it 
wasnt the result of coastal erosion but instead landslip. Ive considered what hes provided 
to support this  including  various  photos.
As I said in my provisional decision the policy covers landslip. I also said the policy  definition  
of landslip  may have been met  Rapid  downward  movement of sloping ground due to its 
slippage. But from what Ive seen  landslip  is often  a feature of coastal erosion. An 
Environmental Agency  (EA) publication,  for example, defines landslide  as the failure of a 
mass of rock or soil under  gravity, often an important part of coastal erosion processes. I 
accept thats in reference to landslide rather than landslip. But from what  Ive seen the two 
terms are often used interchangeably. 
So I accept  there may have been  landslip as part of the dominant cause - coastal erosion. 
And as Ive set out above where there are two proximate causes Lloyds can rely on the 
excluded one to refuse  a claim.
Reference has been made, by Mr D, to a different EA publication from 2013. It assessed 
rates of erosion in the propertys area. The 2013  report found, over a period of about  20 
years, significantly different rates of erosion at two monitored sites in the locality of Mr Ds 
property. In my provisional  decision I referred to ongoing coastal erosion in its area . The 
report doesnt make me think there hadnt been  nor that coastal erosion wasnt the 
dominant cause of the damage.   
Mr D has pointed to Lloyds not producing its own report following the late April and early 
May 2018 weather and loss of the property. He feels this means Lloyds has nothing  to 
support the cause  of the damage being  coastal  erosion. 
Lloyds says its contractor  attended the site after Mr D made the claim in early May 2018  but 
felt it unnecessary to produce his own report. He felt it was clear  there  had been further 
coastal erosion (since  the previous claim in March 2018). The contractor then appointed a 
geotechnical consulting firm to consider if the cause was storm or coastal erosion. Ive 
referred to the report in my provisional decision.  
Mr D says as the report doesnt address the latest  event directly  it can only be considered as 
an irrelevant historical  record.  I dont agree. Along with photos of the property after the 
weather event, the report persuades me the effective  cause  of the damage was coastal 
erosion. 
I havent applied  this services approach to policy terms excluding gradually  occurring  
causes of loss or damage says Mr D. But Lloyds hasnt relied on a gradually occurring 
damage exclusion to refuse the claim.  Instead  its referred to a coastal erosion exclusion. 
Ref: DRN63366553I accept what Mr D says about the requirement  for an insurer  to show an exclusion applies if 
it wishes to rely on it. I understand Mr D feels Lloyds hasnt  done  enough  to show  the 
exclusion can fairly apply  but I feel it has.
Mr D says the exclusion is unclear  so Lloyds cant rely on it. I cant  say it isnt clear.  The 
policy set out in a general exclusions section This policy does not cover:  Any loss or 
damage caused by River or coastal erosion.  I cant say thats unclear or ambiguous.
 
Mr Ds referred  to the Insurance Act 2015.  He says it requires an insurer  to pay a claim 
irrespective of another element being involved.  He says this means it should pay under the 
storm provisions  regardless of any coastal  erosion  element. Ive considered that legislation 
but havent been able to find a provision that reflects what Mr D says. I asked him for further 
detail but he hasnt been provided it. So I cant say the requirements of IA15 mean Lloyds 
has unfairly refused  his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2021.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN63366554PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined his buildings insurance 
claim.
background
Mr Ds property was located near a coastal cliff. In March  2018 some of the cliff fell away,  leaving  his 
house closer  to the edge.  Mr D lost some of his garden.  He made a claim against  the storm section of 
his Lloyds home  insurance policy. It refused to pay. It said the policy covers physical  damage to 
buildings  but there  hadnt  been any  only damage to Mr Ds garden. It also said even if there had 
been damage  to the buildings  it wouldnt be covered anyway. It said the cause would have been  
coastal erosion and thats excluded  by Mr Ds policy.
 
In April 2018  Lloyds said it was cancelling Mr Ds policy. It said when  taking it out he had given 
incorrect information about  the construction of his house.  Lloyds said if it had been  given the correct  
information it wouldnt have  offered him cover. So it issued 14 days notice of cancellation - expiring in 
May 2018.  
In early May 2018, a few days before the cancellation date, Mr D made another  claim. More  of the cliff 
had given way. Part of the house was now hanging over the edge. The local authority (LA) considered 
it a hazard so demolished it. Lloyds said the damage hadnt  been caused  by an event covered  by 
Mr Ds policy,  like storm. Instead  it felt the cause  of the damage was coastal erosion.  And as damage 
caused by coastal  erosion is excluded by the policy it refused to pay the claim. 
Mr D made various  complaints to Lloyds. He wasnt satisfied with the responses.  So he came to this 
service. An investigator  here considered  both claims and the cancellation.  She felt Lloyds had acted 
fairly with all three. Mr D didnt  accept  that. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
I explained to Mr D that I felt his complaints  about the first claim,  from March  2018,  and the 
cancellation had been referred  to this service too late. In response  he accepted that I will only look at 
the second claim, from May 2018. So this decision  considers only that.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to make Lloyds pay the claim or do 
anything differently.  
Mr Ds policy covers  damage  to his buildings caused by a range of events, including storm,  
subsidence and landslip.  He says the damage to his house was caused by storm. 
Lloyds says weather records dont show storm conditions  at the time. The policy provides a definition 
of storm. It refers to violent weather like strong winds  of 55mph or more or torrential rain. There  are 
varying reports from weather records, the media and other sources about  the weather around the end 
of April and very early May 2018.  
But even if I accept there  were storm conditions  it wouldnt mean Id decide  Lloyds were unfair to 
refuse the claim. Thats because  even  if there was a storm I still think  Lloyds decision to refuse the 
claim is fair. 
The policy does exclude loss or damage caused by coastal erosion. Lloyds  say coastal erosion, due 
to the effects of the sea, was the cause  of the damage  so it refused to pay the claim.  Having 
considered all the information provided  by Mr D and Lloyds I think  thats a fair decision.  
Ref: DRN63366555Lloyds commissioned a report from a geotechnical consulting firm. It considers whether the damage 
was caused by storm or coastal erosion. It concludes  it was coastal erosion. The report uses different 
data sources  to show how the sand cliff Mr Ds home was on has eroded over the last 80 years or so. 
It shows the edge of the cliff moving closer to it  in 1938 it was 60m, in 1999  40m, in 2015 20m and 
in 2017 less than 10m.   
The report quotes the local area Shoreline  Management  Plan (SMP). Its produced by various bodies  
including Mr Ds LA and the Environment Agency  (EA). It says the shoreline in much of the area is 
retreating. It says this is part of a natural long-term process. The SMPs long term approach  is to 
allow a naturally  functioning cost to develop  through allowing the beach and backshore to develop  
with minimal  intervention.
The geotechnical report  says its abundantly clear coastal  erosion is ongoing and long term is 
relatively rapid in the area. It adds erosion rates are not constant but are enhanced when the beach 
widths are lower, during  high tides and periods of high winds. The report refers  to the March 2018 
storm eroding the coastal sand cliffs. But it says storm didnt directly damage the structure of Mr Ds 
home. It concludes that coastal erosion to and beyond it was inevitable. 
Mr Ds provided  various letters and other information, including from his LA. Hes referred  to reports 
by the EA.  Ive considered everything Ive been provided  with including a video clip. The LA does 
refer to weather and storm causing the damage. But what  Mr Ds provided hasnt made me think the 
damage wasnt caused by coastal erosion.
From what Ive seen it seems coastal erosion has been a long term and ongoing process. The 
weather conditions  in March  and April 2018,  storm or otherwise, seem to have contributed to it. The 
strength of those winds may have caused powerful waves that accelerated the process. But ultimately 
the cause of the damage to Mr Ds home does seem to be the ongoing process of coastal  erosion. 
Theres been  reference to landslip or subsidence as the cause of the damage.  The policy covers both 
events. It provides definitions of them.  Its possible the movement of the ground below the property 
met the definition of either or both. But even if that is the case Id still say it would be fair for Lloyds to 
rely on the coastal erosion  exclusion. That would  seem to be the cause of the ground movement.  
Mr D says erosion,  by definition, is a slow process. And he feels coastal erosion  is defined as the slow 
deterioration of coastline. He asks how 30 feet of coastline  being  lost in a few days  can be considered  
slow. 
The policy doesnt provide a definition  of coastal erosion. So Ive considered various explanations and 
definitions. I havent seen one that refers to pace or speed. The British Geological Survey, for 
example, defines it as the removal  of material  from the coast by wave action, tidal currents and/or the 
activities of man, typically causing a landward  retreat of the coastline. This seems to me to apply to 
what happened to the cliff Mr Ds home was on. 
Mr D says Lloyds used  an unusual definition  of coastal erosion. So he feels it was required,  by 
regulations, to make  that clear to him. As I said there  isnt a definition  in the policy. But Lloyds in its 
claim notes has used  the wearing away  of material from a coastal profile including  the removal  of 
beach, sand dunes, or sediment by wave action, tidal currents, wave currents, drainage  or high 
winds. That doesnt seem  unusual or non-standard to me.  
The geotechnical agencys report only refers to the March 2018 storm.  So Mr Ds questioned its 
relevance to this claim. The report was commissioned a few days  after the late April and early May 
2018 weather - and after Mr D making  this claim.  But its not clear  if it was produced with knowledge 
of either. 
In any event I feel the report  is still relevant  to this claim.  It outlines and explains coastal erosion and 
how its been  a long-term process  for the specific site of Mr Ds property.  Mr Ds says its author didnt 
Ref: DRN63366556visit the site. So its findings are invalid.  I dont agree. Even if there wasnt a visit the author has used a 
variety of relevant data sources and his own technical expertise to produce the report.  
So Lloyds decision  to rely on the coastal  erosion  exclusion to refuse the claim is fair and reasonable. 
I dont intend to make it pay Mr Ds claim or do anything differently. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont intend to make Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited pay 
Mr Ds claim or do anything differently. 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6336655