K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Western  Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six loans Cashfloat  provided to Mr P between October 2017 and 
November 2018.  Mr Ps borrowing history based  on what Cashfloat provided is as follows:
Loan Start date End date Repayments Loan 
amountHighest 
repayment*
1 01/10/2017 29/12/2017 3 £400 £200
2 29/12/2017 28/02/2018 2 £500 £345
3 08/03/2018 31/05/2018 3 £400 £189
4 17/06/2018 31/08/2018 2 £350 £262
5 31/08/2018 01/11/2018 3 £550 £272
6 02/11/2018 06/02/2019 4 £750 £301
            *these amounts have been  rounded  up/down
Mr P has said Cashfloat should  never have been provided unaffordable  loans. He has said 
he understated his expenses  in the loan applications and provided varying amounts. Mr P 
has said Cashfloat should have realised this and investigated further. 
Cashfloat says that each  of Mr Ps applications was subject to a comprehensive affordability 
and creditworthiness  assessment in line with the relevant  guidelines. It says that income and 
expenditure information was gathered and verified and that credit  checks  were  carried out. It 
says that Mr Ps declared disposable income  was sufficient for him to meet  his repayments 
and that he had a reasonable credit  profile.  It offered Mr P £50 as a gesture of goodwill in its 
final response to My P but he didnt  accept this and brought the complaint to the service. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint in part and thought loans  4 to 6 should not have  
been given. Cashfloat disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN69848542Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P hasnt disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion on loans  1 to 3 so I wont  be looking at 
these any further  as there is no ongoing  disagreement about  them.  But I will bear them in 
mind when Im looking at Mr Ps other lending. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending  history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN69848543Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Cashfloat ought to have  realised Mr P was not managing to repay their 
loans sustainably. Mr Ps overall pattern of borrowing  suggested that he had become 
persistently reliant on short-term loans. It was clear from the credit check thats been 
provided and from the bank  statements  provided that Mr P was paying for a number 
of existing short-term  credit commitments  with other  lenders at the same time. It was 
clear from this that Mr P wasnt  using these high-cost loans to deal with a short-term  
cashflow problem. So, in these  circumstances, Cashfloat ought to have realised it 
was unlikely Mr P wouldve been  able to sustainably repay loan 4  and any 
subsequent loans. 
Mr P had borrowed on four occasions in eight months and whilst the amounts 
fluctuated, they didnt  significantly  decrease  over this period and for the rest of the 
borrowing relationship  with Cashfloat.  So Cashfloat ought to have realised  it was 
more likely than not Mr P was having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Ps indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
From  loan 4 onwards  Mr P was provided  with a new loan within  days, or on the day, 
of settling a previous  one. 
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashfloat. Loan 6was  
taken out 11 months after Mr Ps first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr P had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Cashfloat over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr P borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ps ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him/her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 6 and Cashfloat  should put things  right.
Ref: DRN69848544Mr Ps credit  file
Cashfloat do not agree with our adjudicators recommendation to remove  loans 4 to 6 from 
Mr Ps credit  file.  
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
Ive explained  the reasons as to why I am upholding  Mr Ps complaint about loans 4 to 6. 
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Mr Ps credit  history 
and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make  an informed decision on whether lend to 
him, I think that the mere presence of this many loans on Mr Ps credit file, in itself, 
constitutes adverse  information. And I think that loans 4 to 6 appearing  on Mr Ps credit file is 
likely to continue adversely affecting  Mr P going  forwards.
In these circumstances, I think that it is fair and reasonable  for Cashfloat to remove all 
reference to loans 4 to 6 from Mr Ps credit file.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 4 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 to 6 should be removed from Mr 
Ps credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ps complaint. Western  Circle Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6984854