K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited is pursuing him for a debt he 
believes is unenforceable.
background
In 2017 Cabot told Mr J it had taken ownership  of a debt he owed to another  lender  under a 
hire purchase agreement.  Mr J began  to make regular payments to Cabot through a debt 
management plan.
In November 2018 Mr J asked Cabot to provide a copy of the original agreement  hed taken  
out with the other lender.  Cabot said it wasnt able to get hold of a copy of the agreement 
because of the age of account  which was opened in 2005.
Mr J asked Cabot to write off the debt and close the account. Cabot declined  Mr Js request. 
Mr J then offered to pay £100  in full and final settlement of the balance. But Cabot didnt 
agree to this either. 
Cabot told Mr J that while it was unable to provide the credit  agreement,  the account was 
unenforceable. But the balance still remained due and payable. It said it was happy  for him 
to continue to make payments through his debt management plan.
Mr J made  a complaint  to Cabot saying that he wanted it to close the account as it didnt 
have a credit  agreement.  Cabot said it agreed that the account  was currently unenforceable  
meaning it was unable to start any legal proceedings. But the balance  on the account was 
still outstanding  and remained due and payable so it was still entitled to collect  any monies  
due.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt  think Cabot had done anything  
wrong. He said our service couldnt  say if a debt was enforceable but Cabot was still entitled 
to chase him for the outstanding debt and update his credit  file accordingly. 
Mr J disagreed with our investigators view. He said he didnt feel that the payments were 
due because Cabot  couldnt provide the credit  agreement so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to decide whether a debt is legally enforceable, only a court  can 
decide this. But I can consider whether or not Cabot  has acted fairly by pursuing Mr J for the 
outstanding debt.
Cabot has sent us a copy  of a letter it sent to Mr J in 2017, letting him know  it had ownership  
of the debt. Mr J has queried  the name  of the original lender with us. But the company he 
says he took out the hire purchase  with is a trading name of original  lender  showing  on the 
document Cabot  has provided.
Ref: DRN67434572From what  both sides have said, I understand Mr J has made several payments towards  the 
debt since Cabot took it over. And he also offered to pay £100  to Cabot in full and final 
settlement of the balance. So I think Mr J accepts that the debt exists.
But Mr J feels  that the debt isnt enforceable because Cabot hasnt provided a copy  of his 
credit agreement with the original lender.  Given the age of the debt, I dont think  its 
surprising that Cabot isnt able to get hold of this.
The relevant  industry  guidance says that a business shouldnt mislead a customer as to the 
enforceability of an agreement. I can see that Cabot  has told Mr J that the account was 
currently unenforceable and it was unable  to start any legal proceedings against him.
The guidance also says that if the creditor doesnt  comply with its duty to provide a copy  of 
the credit  agreement it does not mean  that the debt disappears, and it is perfectly  acceptable 
for a creditor  to seek to pursue the debt. It is also acceptable to register  accurately any 
arrears or default with a credit reference agency.
So I dont  think that Cabot has acted unfairly  towards Mr J as it is entitled  to pursue him for 
the debt that remains  outstanding. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6743457