K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc notified him too late that he was able to upgrade  his
ISA before  it matured, meaning he lost out on a preferential interest rate.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 13 January 2020. In summary, I was 
minded to uphold  the complaint because I wasnt satisfied that Santander had provided 
appropriate information to Mr W in good  time. 
Upon the maturity date of 1 May 2019, the savings  from Mr Ws ISA remained with 
Santander and were placed  in a flexible Cash ISA. I concluded that he wasnt  given a fair 
opportunity to instead secure his preferred account  option, which  was a 2-Year Fixed Rate 
ISA with a higher interest rate of 1.9%. 
I therefore proposed  that Santander:
use its best endeavours to place the pre-maturity account balance of Mr Ws ISA into
the 2-Year Fixed Rate ISA with the interest  rate of 1.9%, from a date that it was
previously available  before 1 May 2019. Or, if this wasnt possible, ensure that the 
funds were placed into an account with the same  tax-free benefit of this ISA (with the
same applicable interest  rate, terms and conditions);
backdate the applicable interest at a rate of 1.9% from the account opening date to
the date of settlement, less any interest  that these  funds had earned in the account
they were currently invested in and less any tax thats lawfully deductible.
Santander accepted the proposals set out in my decision. Mr W also accepted  my decision 
and in response to it, made this service  aware that on 25 November 2019, he requested the 
transfer of the entire balance of his Cash ISA with Santander to a Fixed  Rate Cash ISA with 
a different provider. He did so because this meant he would  earn a higher rate of interest  on 
his savings. I understand this transfer  was completed on 29 November 2019. 
my findings
As no further  arguments have been made  and given that neither  of the parties  has 
submitted any further evidence for consideration  I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
Mr W opted to transfer his savings to another provider  before the maturity  of the proposed  
two-year term, i.e. the transfer  was completed in November 2019, when the maturity date of 
the 2-Year Fixed Rate ISA would have been  in either April or May 2021.  Im mindful that this 
decision to transfer  out before the end of the term doesnt represent Mr Ws original 
intentions. Rather,  its a consequence of raising this complaint. Therefore, Im satisfied that 
any associated fees or charges that would normally be associated with the transfer should 
not be payable  by Mr W. 
Ref: DRN62296062In light of the transfer, Ive reconsidered what would be a fair and reasonable settlement to 
the complaint.  I understand that Mr Ws funds are now in another Fixed  Rate Cash ISA, 
which is secured with the alternative provider he opted to transfer to. Accordingly, Santander 
is now unable to use its best endeavours to match the 1.9% interest rate on its 
aforementioned 2-Year Fixed Rate ISA after the transfer completion date  because after 
this point, these  savings were no longer held by it. 
Ultimately, this transfer was Mr Ws choice and, although I appreciate  his reasons for making 
this decision, Im unable  to direct Santander  to make a settlement that its now unable to 
carry out. 
For this reason, its my judgment that Santander ensure the entire  balance  of Mr Ws ISA 
that was placed in the Cash ISA earned  interest  at a rate of 1.9% (to match  that of the           
2-Year Fixed Rate ISA) while it was held in that account with Santander. So, this settlement 
should be calculated  from the date the funds were first placed into the account until the 
transfer completion date.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and before, my final decision is to uphold the complaint and 
direct Santander UK Plc to:
settle the difference between the interest earned on the funds placed in the Cash  ISA 
and the 2-Year  Fixed  Rate ISA with an interest rate of 1.9% 
this settlement ought to be calculated from the date Mr Ws funds were placed in the 
Cash ISA in May 2019 and the transfer completion  date of 29 November 2019, less 
any tax thats lawfully  deductible.
Mr W should note that if he accepts my decision,  it will be legally binding and he wouldnt be
able to take further action over the subject-matter  of this particular complaint against
Santander. If, however,  he rejects  the decision or doesnt reply on time, his legal rights  will
remain intact.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6229606