K820x#14complaint
Ms R has complained that Southern  Rock  Insurance Company said she needs  to pay an 
excess in order to claim for a windscreen  repair under her car insurance policy. Ms R also 
says she didnt receive her policy documents when  she bought her policy through a broker.  
background
Ms R bought a car insurance policy  through  a broker in September 2018. Southern Rock is 
the underwriter of her policy.
In October  2018 Ms R complained that she hadnt received her policy  documents  and she 
didnt believe she should have to pay an excess for a windscreen claim she wanted to make. 
Southern Rock said it checked with Ms Rs broker and they said they sent Ms Rs policy  
documents to her by post and email on 14 September 2018. Southern Rock sent Ms R a 
further copy of her policy documents. Southern Rock said Ms R correctly  owed an excess  
payment if she wanted her windscreen  claim to be met. 
Our investigator didnt  think Southern Rock had done anything wrong. Ms R didnt agree. 
She said her broker sent her fake information to confuse her. Ms R wants evidence to show  
the broker sent her policy documents  by post.
As Ms R didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Rs broker  was responsible for issuing her policy  documents  when she bought her policy 
in September  2018. Southern Rock - as the underwriter of Ms Rs policy - is responsible for 
dealing with any claims made under the policy.
Southern Rock replied to Ms Rs complaints. These  were that she hadnt  received her policy 
documents by post as requested  and that Southern Rock  wrongly  told Ms R that if she 
made a claim shed have  to pay an excess which  wouldnt be refundable. 
Although Southern Rock is the underwriter   and not the broker   its provided a screenshot 
from the broker showing dates and times  of when it produced the policy  documents  for 
Ms R. Southern Rock  said this shows  along with a copy  of the documents and welcome  
letter  that the broker wrote  to Ms R enclosing her documents  on 14 September 2018.
I understand Ms R says she didnt receive  these. Ms R wants proof the documents  were  
sent. 
I cant make  a finding about  the actions of the broker in my decision against Southern Rock. 
I can say that  based on the information Southern  Rock relied  on  I think it reached its 
conclusion reasonably. But if Ms R remains unhappy, she can raise this issue  directly with 
the broker. I appreciate  that Ms R says she raised this with us when she contacted us. But 
we can only address the complaints Southern Rock replied to when  it issued its Final  
Response letter to Ms R in October 2018.  
Ref: DRN69908222In reply to the investigators view, Ms R said she has a right to ask for her money  back. She 
says the broker  sent a fake document to her which said it would refund money  to her. 
If Ms R wants to cancel her insurance policy, she will need to contact  either Southern Rock 
or her broker. I havent seen anything to suggest Ms R has been sent fake documents.  If 
Ms R has proof; she can raise these concerns  directly with the broker and provide them with 
such proof so that they can reply to her complaint. 
If  after the broker  replies  or if it doesnt  reply to her complaints on time  Ms R remains  
unhappy, she can ask us to look at things  for her.
Ms R reported an incident to her broker on 29 September  2018. She said her windscreen  
had been damaged. Ms R says the damage wasnt her fault as it was caused by somebody 
else  and so she believes  she should  receive a refund of any excess she pays  because it 
should be dealt  with as a non fault claim. 
Southern Rock explained to Ms R that her policy says in the event of a claim, she must  pay 
an excess. This applies to either a general claim under the policy   or a windscreen  claim. 
In the event of a general claim, this could only be settled as a non fault claim if Southern  
Rock were able to recover all of the costs from a third party.  As it said the third party that 
caused the damage to Ms Rs car wasnt known, Southern Rock had no party to recover the 
costs from. This means that Ms Rs excess  if she made a claim  wouldnt be refunded to 
her. 
I think the information Southern Rock gave Ms R was correct. I can see that Ms Rs 
certificate of Insurance and policy wording explained  the amount of excess shed need to 
pay in the event of a malicious damage claim or a windscreen claim. 
Ms R said Southern Rock  didnt properly explain how Ms R needed  to pay the excess   and 
who to. Southern Rocks  policy  has a section titled How  to make a claim.  This gives Ms R 
details of what number  to call and how the claims process works. The policy  says that 
Southern Rock will work with its network of approved repairers to arrange repairs.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Southern Rock acted reasonably  and in line with the policy.  
So I think Ms R correctly  owes an excess if she chooses to claim against her car insurance 
policy. The excesses she needs  to pay  depending on the type of claim she makes  are 
clearly set out in the policy wording and Motor  Insurance  Schedule  which is underwritten by 
Southern Rock.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN69908223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6990822