K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the amount of compensation that esure  Insurance Limited  offered  for 
its handling of a claim made on his motor insurance  policy. He wants it to pay him £352.50 
further compensation. 
background
Mr Cs car was damaged  whilst parked and a neighbour left a note giving details of a witness  
who had seen what happened.  It took two months for repairs to be made.  esure failed to 
contact the witness  for several months  and then the witness didnt send in a statement as 
requested. esure had no evidence to hold the other  driver liable, so a fault was recorded 
against Mr C. 
esure agreed that there  had been  failings in its handling of the claim. To put things right,  it 
recorded the claim as non-fault and Mr Cs four years No Claims Discount  (NCD) was 
unaffected. esure also offered Mr C £200 compensation for his inconvenience. But Mr C said 
the claim had cost him £552.50 in total and he thought esure should refund him this amount. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He thought 
esure should have  tried to contact the witness sooner and he thought it should have tried 
harder to get the witness statement.  He thought  this may have affected the outcome of the 
claim. And so he thought esure should  refund Mr Cs policy excess  by paying  him £300 
more, with interest. But he didnt think esure was responsible for the £52.50  charge Mr Cs 
new insurer had applied  when  he cancelled  his policy. 
esure replied  that it thought £300 more compensation was excessive. It said it had already 
restored Mr Cs position to what it would have been  if the claim had been  non fault. It said it 
wasnt responsible  for the witness not providing  a statement.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure tried to hold the insurer of the alleged other  driver liable for its costs. But the other  
insurer denied involvement in the incident.  So esure  recorded the claim as fault because it 
hadnt recovered its outlay. But, after Mr C complained, esure  changed this to non fault and 
Mr Cs NCD was unaffected.  
We expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence  available 
before making  its decision on liability. 
Mr C told esure that notes had been  left on his car when he notified  it of the claim. But I cant 
see that esure asked  anything further about these then. Two weeks later,  Mr C provided his 
neighbours details for esure  to contact her for details of the witness  and he sent photos of 
the notes. 
It then took esure over a month to contact Mr Cs neighbour  for this information. It recorded  
the witness phone number incorrectly and didnt realise this for a further  two months.  It 
chased this but I can see that Mr C provided the correct phone number a month  later. 
Ref: DRN68841672The witness  then said he couldnt  remember the incident. A further six weeks later, esure,  at 
Mr Cs instigation, called the witness again  and this time he was happy to co-operate. esure 
then sent him a witness statement form to complete. This was almost seven months after the 
incident. Despite  chasing, the witness didnt return the form.  
esure said there was no knowing what the witness would  have  said or whether his testimony  
would have affected the outcome of the claim. 
But an independent witness  had taken the trouble to leave a note at the time and later said 
he had details of the van involved. I think that arguably his evidence would have made a 
difference if it had been collected at the time. So I think esures failure to contact the witness 
sooner has prejudiced Mr Cs claim. 
When a business  makes a mistake, as esure has already agreed it has here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers  position as far as thats possible. I can see that the claim has been  
recorded as non fault and Mr Cs NCD is unaffected. But Mr C is still out of pocket because 
he had to pay his policy excess. 
Mr C had two applicable  policy  excesses for his claim: £300 for voluntary vehicle damage  
excess and £200  for repair work from his own repairer. Usually  a policy excess is an 
uninsured loss that a consumer would have to pay and then seek  to recover from the other  
insurer in the case of a non-fault claim. 
I can see that Mr C told esure early on that it was his intention to take legal action against 
the other driver if he wasnt found at fault. So I think esures failure  to obtain the witness 
statement has prevented  Mr C from doing this. And so I think  its fair and reasonable that 
esure should refund Mr C his policy excess.  
esure has already  paid Mr C £200 compensation. I think  it should now pay him a further 
£300 to refund his excess in full and, because Mr C has been without his money for some  
time, I think esure  should add interest to this amount.
I think Mr C chose to change  his insurer. So I cant reasonably hold esure responsible for the 
charge it applied when Mr C cancelled his new policy because it didnt decrease his 
premium sufficiently due to the change of the claim to non-fault. So I dont require esure to 
refund Mr C the £52.50 charge. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure  Insurance  Limited to 
do the following:
1.Pay Mr C £300 further compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its 
level of service. 
2.Interest should  be added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple  per annum from the 
date Mr C paid his excess to the date of settlement.  
3.HM Revenue & Customs  requires esure  to withhold income  tax from that interest.  It must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN68841673Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6884167