K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) handled a claim by another driver  against  their motor policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs E were  involved  in an incident with another  driver in 2015. LV decided Mr and 
Mrs E were  responsible for causing that incident and accepted liability on their behalf settling 
the other drivers claim, but on a without prejudice  basis. 
Mr and Mrs E feel very strongly  that LVs decision to do wasnt  right. And consequently,  its 
affected their premiums by increasing  them. They complained to LV and whilst LV thought  its 
customer service  to Mr and Mrs E was below standard,  it believed  its decision in relation to 
the other drivers claim was the right one. It paid Mr and Mrs E £100 compensation, which 
Mr and Mrs E sent back.
Mr and Mrs E remained dissatisfied and brought their complaint to us. The investigator 
thought LV didnt need to do anything more. Mr and Mrs E strongly disagreed and so their 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First, I do want to acknowledge and confirm  to Mr and Mrs E, that I do understand and 
appreciate how strongly they feel about  this incident and how much  they believe LV is 
wrong. I also want to thank them for their very detailed  accounts of their issues, which has 
been very helpful to me.
However as the adjudicator explained, this service doesnt decide who was at fault for 
causing an incident or accident as thats  better  dealt  with at court.  However, we do look to 
see if this decision was made reasonably by LV, bearing in mind the terms and conditions  of 
the policy.
Here, LV settled the other drivers  claim on a without prejudice basis which  means liability is 
not formally admitted, leaving it open  for Mr and Mrs E to sue the other driver if they wish, 
without LVs involvement or LVs protection as to legal costs. But obviously, Mr and Mrs E 
would need to be guided by their own legal advice on this. This would  not be something for 
which that LV would be responsible.
Further, in LVs policy like virtually every  other  motor  policy, it has the right to take over and 
defend any claims against  the policyholder as it thinks fit. In Mr and Mrs Es policy, this is 
detailed in section  13, where it says Were entitled  to have total control  to conduct, defend 
and settle any claim.
Ref: DRN69547622This essentially means that when Mr and Mrs E accepted the offer of this policy  they agreed 
to this clause. The purpose of this clause is to permit the insurer, LV here,  to avail of its own 
experience in motor  claims  and indeed be unfettered by any policyholders  preference  to 
litigate, for which  costs LV would be responsible, not the policyholder. Its a standard  clause 
used throughout  the motor insurance industry, so its not unusual.
I do consider LVs decision to admit  liability on a without prejudice basis was reasonable on 
balance. This is because the other  drivers insurers had authorised the repairs  to their car so 
they would  have engineering evidence to substantiate that. There was a witness and the 
other insurers were prepared to issue court proceedings.  Its not reasonable here for LV to 
have waited for the proceedings  to be issued, as that escalates costs, for which it would be 
responsible, rather  than Mr and Mrs E. And therefore given this witness evidence (which  I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs E think is a mockery) and the constant threat by the other  insurers to 
litigate, I consider its not an unreasonable decision  for LV to have settled the claim,  rather 
than to run the risk of escalating legal costs.  
I agree  that LV should have inspected Mr and Mrs Es car. They should have kept them  fully 
updated and informed. But I think given the evidence,  it was more likely  LV wouldnt have 
been successful  in defending this claim against  Mr and Mrs E. And its LVs decision to make 
under the policy,  its wholly entitled under the terms of the policy to make this decision, even 
though Mr and Mrs E disagree so strongly.
I understand the claim by this other driver has increased the premiums Mr and Mrs E have to 
pay. That increase is due to two issues, first that an incident irrespective of whose fault it 
was, occurred. That changes the risk profile.  And of course secondly  because  its now 
marked as a fault claim, which  further  increases the risk profile.
I consider LVs offer of £100 compensation for its service failings, most especially its failure 
to inspect their car to be reasonable.  Its in line with awards I make in similar circumstances. 
If Mr and Mrs E now wish to accept  this compensation,  it should contact LV directly  to 
reissue its cheque.
my final decision
So whilst I understand Mr and Mrs E will be deeply  disappointed with my decision, for these 
reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E 
name here to accept  or reject my decision before 22 December 2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6954762