K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about mortgage  advice they were given by an appointed  
representative of Connells  Limited in 2014,  which they say has resulted in them paying an 
early repayment charge  (ERC) in 2018.
background
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with a lender Ill call N. They  decided  to move house  and 
needed to borrow  more money. So they took mortgage advice from Connells.
As they had an existing  mortgage which was subject to an ERC, they ported the interest rate 
to their new mortgage. The existing rate was a five year fixed  rate which expired  in 2018. 
The further borrowing  was on a separate sub-account, and on advice from Connells Mr and 
Mrs P selected a five year fixed rate for that sub-account, ending in 2019.
In 2018, when the fixed rate on the main mortgage came to an end, Mr and Mrs P took a 
new fixed rate for the whole of their mortgage.  As this meant that the fixed rate on the further 
borrowing sub-account  was ended early, they had to pay an ERC of around  £300. So they 
complained to Connells. They said they had been told that the two rates would end at the 
same time so they agreed to take the mortgage. They  wanted  the ERC  and the £399  advice  
fee theyd paid Connells refunded.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. She said the mortgage offer 
was clear that there were two rates, ending at different times and both subject to ERCs.  And 
she said the mortgage was, overall, suitable  for Mr and Mrs P. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. 
They said theyd queried the different end dates at the time and had been told that, as they 
ended close together,  the lender would waive the ERC. If theyd  known it wouldnt,  they 
would have taken  a variable rate without ERC for the further borrowing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage Mr and Mrs P already had was subject to an ERC until 2018. They didnt want 
to pay an ERC on this in 2014, so decided to port their mortgage. But they also needed 
further borrowing. This couldnt be added  to their existing interest  rate, so formed a separate  
sub-account with its own interest rate.
Mr and Mrs P initially said they wanted  rates that ended at the same time,  so that they could 
then combine the whole  mortgage into one interest rate, and thats what  they thought had 
happened.
Ive looked at the rates N had available at the time,  and that wouldnt  have  been  possible. N 
offers a range of rates  which run to fixed end dates rather than for fixed  durations   so, in 
July 2014, it had rates that ran to October 2016  and October 2019, for example,  rather  than 
rates that ran from two or five years from completion. None of the rates it had available  
matched the end date  or even finished  in the same year  as the ported rate. So I think  its 
unlikely Connells suggested that the two rates would end at the same time.
Ref: DRN60177472Mr and Mrs P say they spotted  the difference in dates at the time, and were  told that it 
wouldnt matter because  the lender would waive the ERC. In my experience, its very 
unlikely a lender would agree to do that, and indeed N didnt. A competent mortgage adviser 
would, in my view, have  known that.
That doesnt  mean, of course, that Mr and Mrs P werent wrongly told that N would waive the 
ERC. I dont  doubt the honesty  of their recollection about that. But theres  no documentary 
evidence of such a discussion. And I have to bear in mind that memory is fallible, especially 
over a period  of time as long as five years, and can be subconsciously shaped by later views 
about what happened. Mr and Mrs P initially told us in their complaint form that they were  
advised that both rates would end at the same  time and only learnt that wasnt  the case 
when taking a new rate in 2018  they only told us they queried it with the adviser at the time 
in 2014 after our investigator  pointed out that the mortgage offer showed the rates ended at 
different times. So on balance I think Mr and Mrs Ps recollection of having done  that is 
mistaken.
The documents completed at the time show that Mr and Mrs P chose a fixed rate for their 
further borrowing  so that their payments  would  be certain. The fixed  rate on the further 
borrowing achieved that. 
No mortgage is ever perfect; theres  always a balance to be struck between advantages  and 
disadvantages. Mr and Mrs P say they wanted both rates to end at the same time, but that 
wasnt possible. They could have chosen  a variable  rate without ERC  but that wouldnt 
have achieved their aim of fixed payments.  They chose a fixed  rate, but that included  an 
ERC.
I dont know what advice  they were given by N when they took the new fixed  rate in 2018. 
But it seems  to me that it would have been possible for the two sub-accounts to continue  on 
different rates   in which  case they could have taken a new rate on the main  borrowing 
without having  to pay an ERC on the further  borrowing sub-account.  
As I say, I dont know why they didnt do that. But I dont  think  it was an inevitable 
consequence of Connells  advice that they would have to pay an ERC in 2018. And, on 
balance, I think the recommendation  Connells made  in 2014 was suitable.  It avoided an 
ERC on the ported rate and gave them the certainty they wanted on the payments for the 
further borrowing. And Im not persuaded that they were misled about what they were taking 
out. So I dont  think it would be fair to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6017747