K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Ms L took out a joint-mortgage in 1999 with National Westminster  Bank  PLC. They  
have alleged  that they were mis-sold  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
in relation Mr L. 
Ill refer mainly to NatWest for simplicity.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Ms L its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
It seems  Mr and Ms L are additionally upset that NatWest originally offered some redress  in 
relation to this complaint, which was then later withdrawn. However, whilst I accept these 
types of actions can be very disappointing,  it seems to me that in this particular case,  there 
does appear to be a reasonable  explanation.
This is that Ms L originally took out independent PPI cover  in 1999 when the mortgage was 
first applied for. Due to circumstances we dont need  to go in to here, Ms L was 
compensated in relation to this policy.
Mr L, on the other hand, also took out an independent policy.  But this didnt happen  until the 
following year. Perhaps  not surprisingly  (knowing  Ms L had been compensated) Mr L also 
complained about his own independent  PPI sale. But between himself  and NatWest,  the 
two PPI complaints  became somewhat confused and he was offered some  compensation 
which actually related to the other  PPI complaint  which  had already been  settled  in respect  
of Ms L. When this mistake  was uncovered, NatWest withdrew the offer.  
NatWest, however, has admitted this mistake. And it has made, in my view, a fair offer for 
the inconvenience and any distress caused. It then investigated Mr Ls complaint about his 
own PPI policy and said it had been sold in accordance  with the rules.
Mr Ls allegation is that he was led to believe during the sale that he had to buy the policy 
and he was heavily  pressured in the course of the sale process. He also said he had a 
medical condition  that should be taken into account  as this might have played  a part in the 
sale being put through.
However, Im afraid I disagree. Ive considered all these issues with care and I think  the PPI 
Mr L took out was specifically  applied  for, after the mortgage was already set up. By 
definition therefore,  he would have known it wasnt compulsory. Mr L also filled out a 
number of PPI forms distinct from the mortgage application process and it looks to me as if 
Ref: DRN65427652the cost was clearly  disclosed to him. He would  have  had to authorise the PPI premium to 
leave his account on a monthly basis. 
So I think the application process  he underwent is demonstrative of him knowing the PPI 
was an additional  product  which he was under  no obligation to apply for.
Ive also considered his medical condition. Whilst I in no way seek  to imply the condition 
wasnt an important issue for Mr L, theres  no evidence at all before me with which to show 
he was at a disadvantage or otherwise placed  in a vulnerable position at the point of sale.  
He was, at the time, in a joint-mortgage  without PPI for himself, and he was independently 
seeking to have cover applied  in case he lost his job, or became too ill to work. He therefore 
would have been able to see he was making  a stand-alone application for a completely 
different product and the pre-existing medical  condition he had is not likely to have  been  
one requiring him to claim for, under the policy rules.
So, Mr L was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the main exclusions we 
sometimes see in these  policies. The price seems to me to be comparable with similar  
policies from around that time period and at around  £10 per month, Ive seen nothing that 
suggests it wasnt affordable for him and Ms L. Mr L said he didnt need the cover because 
he had sickness protection with his job. But, of course, it was he who decided to make  an 
application for it, and having some work related benefits doesnt mean the cover was of no 
use. The mortgage was a long-term and substantial undertaking,  secured against  Mr L and 
Ms Ls home  and so the consequences of failing to be able to pay it would have been 
serious.
Overall, I think theres solid evidence that Mr L initiated and engaged  in the discussions 
about this sale and he went through a number of steps to get the PPI policy.  Theres no 
evidence, in my view, that it was mis-sold to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Ms Ls complaint (about Mr Ls policy). And I dont direct National 
Westminster Bank PLC to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6542765