K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage with PPI in 1997. The policy  protected their mortgage 
monthly repayments in the event that Mr W had an accident or became disabled, or if he lost 
his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with this view. They 
mainly say that Mr Ws work benefits meant  they didn't need PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W took out the mortgage in joint names. So Ive looked at both their 
circumstances when  the policy was taken out.  
NatWest hasnt been able to provide anything signed by Mr and Mrs W to show  how they 
agreed to take out PPI. I dont think thats  surprising. I wouldnt expect NatWest  or 
Mr and Mrs W to have kept all the paperwork from this sale for so long. 
And it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs W might be able to remember  
about the sale after such a long time.  
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI. But it looks  
like they spoke to an advisor at the bank about  their financial circumstances. Ive seen a 
record of that meeting,  signed by Mr and Mrs W, which says that a need to provide an 
income in the event  of illness or disability  to replace lost earnings was identified.  
Ive also seen a copy of their mortgage  offer  and theres nothing  mentioned  on that which 
wouldve suggested to Mr and Mrs W that they had to take out PPI.
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ws home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly repayments were 
protected even  if Mr W couldnt work. So, I can see why they mightve  felt PPI was useful. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs W mightve forgotten  some of the details 
from the sale. On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W decided they wanted to 
protect their home by taking out PPI. And it was added  to their mortgage at their request. 
Ref: DRN64105322NatWest says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs W. I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs W disagree with what the bank says about this. But I dont think a 
recommendation to have  PPI wouldve been unsuitable. So this doesn't  affect the outcome 
of their complaint.  
Ive looked carefully  at whether NatWest  gave Mr and Mrs W enough information to make  a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for them  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought  
about whether  that makes any overall  difference to what happened.
Mr W was eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account that Mr W was entitled  to 24 weeks  
full sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out for longer than this and on top of any sick pay - 
for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness. 
It wouldve  also covered  Mr W in the event of unexpected unemployment. And Mr W 
couldve made repeated  claims  on the policy  so it offered long term protection for 
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage.  
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped if Mr W was off work sick. And 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving  Mr and Mrs W some additional  financial security in those circumstances. 
Although they had some other insurance  set up, PPI provided a different sort of cover and 
paid out in different circumstances to critical illness cover or a life policy.
Ive also taken into account that Mrs W had paid work  as well. But it looks like Mr W was the 
main earner. So I think that losing his income is likely to have  had a significant adverse 
impact on their joint finances. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, I can see why they mightve felt they 
could benefit from having PPI. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mr W was affected 
by any of the usual conditions  limiting  the policys main benefits.  So, I dont think having  
more information  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected  Mr and Mrs Ws 
decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs W when they bought the policy. 
But, from what Ive seen,  the monthly  premiums werent unaffordable for them and they 
couldve always cancelled the PPI if their circumstances  changed. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs W still wouldve decided  to buy the policy,  even if theyd been better 
informed, as it gave  them useful protection in their particular  situation. I dont think  better 
information wouldve  put them off buying PPI as it provided worthwhile benefits they wouldnt 
otherwise have had. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs W paid on their policy   and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
Ref: DRN64105323NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ws policy  was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ws commission was less 
than half the cost of the policy. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell them about the commission  so I dont think  
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs W back any of the commission they paid for 
the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6410532