K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wants her to pay 
additional damage charges after she returned  a car it supplied under a hire purchase 
agreement.
background
This car was new when  Ms R got it in March 2015.  She got it using a finance  agreement 
from VWFS and needed to pay just under  £208 a month for four years.  Ms R returned the 
car to VWFS in May 2018  so about a year early.
She says she spent about £1,000  to ensure  the car was in really  good condition when it was 
returned, as she knew that it would be inspected  for damage. She was shocked when VWFS 
then asked her to pay an extra £72 because it said the carpet  in the foot well under the 
pedals was damaged.
Ms R complained to VWFS but it wouldnt change its mind. So she brought her complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked at the photos of the damage  and compared  these  to the guidelines 
used by most companies (including VWFS) when assessing the condition  of a returned car. 
He thought the charge  was fair, so he didnt recommend Ms Rs complaint be upheld.
Ms R remains unhappy  so Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Ms Rs finance agreement and Im satisfied shes liable for any damage to the 
car that falls outside the wear and tear appropriate for the age and mileage  of the car.
Our investigator looked at industry  guidance  on acceptable wear and tear provided by the 
British Vehicle Rental  Leasing  Association (BVRLA). Ive looked at this too, and it says (in 
relation to the interior condition): 
Carpets should not have holes and torn or split floor coverings and damaged surrounding  
trim panels are not acceptable.
Ive looked at the photos of the damage  and I have to agree  with our investigator  there 
does appear to be a tear or hole in the carpet  next to the rubberised part of the foot well 
carpet. That seems to me to be unacceptable  wear  and tear as defined  in the industry 
guidelines.
Im sorry  to tell Ms R this but I dont think VWFS  has been unreasonable when it asked her 
to pay for this damage.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN68064952Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6806495