K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited wont  refund three payments which he 
says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
what happened
Mr K has disputed  three payments made on 29 March  2018: a cash  withdrawal for £200, a 
payment in a shop  for £52, and an online subscription for £19.95.
Mr K says he suffers from memory  loss due to a medical condition,  and cant remember 
exactly what happened. But he thinks his card may have been stolen while he was on a 
walk. He thinks he found it later.
He says he kept his card in a wallet with other cards, along with a piece of paper that had 
the PIN for all the cards written on it. He kept his wallet in his jacket pocket. He says he still 
has his wallet and the other cards did not go missing.
He said he was expecting  his income  to arrive  on 29 March 2018, and normally  would 
withdraw it in cash. But he didnt remember doing  so this time. He also didnt remember  
signing up for the online subscription.
Mr K said he may have noticed the disputed transactions when he checked his balance at an 
ATM on 29 or 30 March 2018. Or he said it might have been when he contacted  Wirecard  
and they told him about the transactions.
Wirecard held Mr K liable for the transactions on the basis  that hed written his PIN down. 
Mr K came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently, and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
contacted the online  merchant and found  that the subscription was for Mr K. The shop was 
one he used before,  and the balance checks hed mentioned  making were made just two 
minutes before the disputed payment at the same shop. She didnt see a likely way 
someone took and replaced his card from his wallet, or why they left the other cards.  And 
she said Mr K had checked his online banking the day before reporting the payments. She 
felt it was most likely  that Mr K had authorised the transactions,  even if he no longer 
remembered doing so.
Mr K disagreed. He felt she hadnt taken his medical situation into account. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision, so the complaints  been passed to me.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   including what Mr K told us about his 
medical situation and his memory. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Broadly, Wirecard can hold Mr K liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence suggests 
its most  likely he authorised them.
Ref: DRN62470272Wirecard say they dont  still have the technical evidence to show how these payments were 
authenticated, though  both sides seem to accept that Mr Ks genuine  card and PIN were 
used. The type of cash withdrawal and shop  payment made  here would normally need 
Mr Ks genuine card and correct PIN to go through, and the online subscription  payment 
wouldve needed his card details. Ive thought carefully about whether its most  likely that he 
consented to these payments or not.
It doesnt seem likely that the payments  were  made  by someone Mr K doesnt know. Its 
difficult to see how they wouldve  taken his wallet, removed one card and the record  of the 
PIN, then given it back to Mr K  all without him noticing. And it seems unlikely that an 
unknown thief would  leave the rest of Mr Ks cards behind, or his wallet as a whole.  Lastly, 
I dont think its likely  that an unknown  thief would follow  Mr K and risk being caught just so 
they could return  his card and PIN to him.
Further, the person  using  the card didnt  check the balance, but made  a large  withdrawal. 
And they did so just after Mr Ks income was paid in. This makes it look like they knew  what  
Mr Ks balance  might be. Meanwhile, the online subscription was set up in December 2017, 
long before Mr K said he lost his card. So I dont think that an unknown  thief made these 
payments.
Its possible that someone known to Mr K may have been able to make the payments 
without his permission.  He lives with a family member, and says they sometimes have 
friends over. But Mr K said he lost his card and PIN record  while on a walk, so it doesnt  
sound like they were taken from his home.  And its still difficult  to see why the person who 
accessed his wallet didnt use all his cards, or how they mightve known his balance, or why 
theyd set up an online subscription service for him.
So while its possible  that someone Mr K knew did this, I dont think its the most  likely 
explanation for what happened.
Mr K explained that he normally  withdraws his income in cash as soon as it comes in. This is 
supported by his statements,  which show him making large cash withdrawals  the same  day 
his income arrives. I can see that on 28 March 2018 at 23:37, Mr K checked  his online 
banking. At 00:32  on 29 March 2018,  his £280 income arrived. Then at 01:11,  the £200  
withdrawal was made at an ATM  local to Mr K. This fits with how he normally  used his 
account. So it seems  very plausible  that the withdrawal was made by Mr K, taking out his 
income in the same  way he usually did.
It looks like Mr K checked his online banking on 29 March 2018 at 08:11, after the disputed  
withdrawal and the online subscription payment had been made. But he didnt report  these 
until the next day, and only after checking his account twice more. If those payments werent 
genuine, I might have expected Mr K to report them as soon as possible.
Mr K says he noticed the disputed payments when he checked his balance  at an ATM on 29 
or 30 March  2018.  The only ATM  balance checks made on those days were a couple  of 
minutes before the £52 payment, at the same shop. This shop was also one that Mr K 
normally used himself.  So it seems  like Mr K may have been there at the time of the £52 
payment. Mr K says that, alternatively, he may have found out about the transactions  when 
he spoke to Wirecard.  But he was the one who told Wirecard about  the disputed  payments, 
not the other  way around.
Ref: DRN62470273In addition, the online subscription was a service to help Mr K monitor his credit file and 
social media, and protect against identity theft.  It seems more likely  this wouldve been set 
up for Mr Ks benefit rather  than someone  elses. It was set up with his correct name, date of 
birth, address, and card details. He had previously paid for this service  in January 2018 and 
didnt dispute  it, so it looks like this was a genuine subscription  though  I can understand if 
Mr C forgot  about it some  months  down the line.
In summary,  I dont think its plausible that an unknown thief did this. And while its possible 
that someone known  to Mr K used his card without his permission, I dont think its very 
likely. The online subscription appears to be Mr Ks, and the withdrawal  and shop payment fit 
with how he normally used his account.  Given Mr Ks situation, I think its understandable  if 
he no longer remembers  making the payments. But taking  all the evidence  into account,  
I think its most likely  that he authorised them. And so I think  its fair for Wirecard to hold 
Mr K liable for the payments in dispute.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6247027