K820x#14complaint
Ms V complains  that a car she has been  financing through an agreement with STARTLINE 
MOTOR FINANCE  LIMITED (Startline) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Ms V took receipt of a used car in April 2018. She financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with Startline.  At the point of supply  the car was about three years old and had 
completed about 88,500 miles.
Ms V says she had problems with the car in the summer of 2018 but unfortunately she is no 
longer able to locate  the receipts  for this work.  She first complained to Startline in April 2019.  
She explained that further issues had developed. The Diesel Particulate Filter and the 
vaporiser needed  replacing. She asked Startline to allow  her to reject the car.
Startline explained  that, as the problems had happened after such  a long time, they would 
expect Ms V to provide  evidence that they were there, or developing,  when  the car was 
supplied to her. They  explained  that this was the point at which they were  responsible  for its 
quality.
So Ms V referred her complaint to this service  and our investigator provided her opinion. She 
agreed with Startline. She said that, given the time that had elapsed, it was reasonable to 
suggest it was for Ms V to demonstrate  these  new faults were present when she took 
delivery of the car. She explained that was the point  at which  Startline were responsible for 
its quality. She noted that Ms V had been  able to drive 25,000 miles in a year and that this 
was much more than the national average  annual mileage. She thought  that it would have 
been unlikely  shed have been able to complete this mileage if there  were  problems with the 
car from the start. So she didnt think Startline had been unfair  to reject her complaint and 
she didnt think they needed to take any further action.
Ms V didnt agree with the investigator  and she therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Ms V so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN69536692Ms V acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Ms V. The car here 
was around three years  old and had travelled a little over 88,500 miles. So I think  a 
reasonable person would expect some  wear and tear.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.  
But Startlines responsibility  for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
I think its unlikely that the problems Ms V now complains of were present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Ms V. I say that because:
I dont think its likely  Ms V would have been  able to drive 25,000 miles in the car with 
these problems;
Ive not been provided with any expert evidence to suggest the faults were present 
when the car was supplied. Such  as an independent engineers  report. I think, given 
the time thats  elapsed, its fair to suggest its Ms Vs responsibility, and not 
Startlines, to prove this issue;
Ive not seen sufficient evidence of the other problems Ms V says she had with the 
car, in the summer of 2018, to suggest  there  were problems from inception.
So, overall, Im afraid I dont think theres sufficient  evidence here that this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when supplied and Im therefore not asking Startline to take any further  
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6953669