K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 1995 at the same time as/ taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs B for accident, sickness, and unemployment   
subject to its exclusions and limitations. The benefit  was split between  Mr and Mrs B. It 
offered to repay  £115 a month towards Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  balance in the event of a 
successful claim  by Mr B. It offered to repay £40 a month towards their mortgage balance  in 
the event of a successful  claim by Mrs B. At the time,  it cost £10.47  a month.  
B&B has shown us a copy of the original  mortgage  application and references it obtained 
from Mr and Mrs Bs employers. As these were  completed at the time of the sale I think they 
are likely to give accurate information  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the 
sale.
Mr B was employed as a warehouse supervisor.  At the time of the application in March 1995  
hed been employed in this role for eight months. His employer said hed become eligible for 
sick pay after hed been employed for one year but didnt state how much sick pay or for how 
long it would be paid.
Mr B has told us he experienced  some back pain in 1995 but hasnt been able to tell us if 
this was before or after he made  the mortgage application and was sold the PPI. He told us 
the back pain was treated with painkillers and he never took any time off work because of it. 
Otherwise Mr B had no medical  conditions at the time of the sale.
Mrs B was employed as a customer service clerk. Her employer reference  states  shed been 
with her employer for one year and was entitled  to 20 days  sick pay in any one year after 
which shed only receive statutory sick pay.
Mrs B has told us she had no medical conditions  in March 1995.
Mr and Mrs B have  said they had no other means  to pay the mortgage if they were not 
working.
B&B has told us that the mortgage  was redeemed in 1998.
 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
Ref: DRN61001952wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Bs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means B&B should have told 
Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN61001953The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN61001954-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether B&B gave  Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
The mortgage application has a section about  PPI. I can see it asks the mortgage applicants  
to answer Yes or No to whether the want to take out PPI. And I can see the answer  Yes  
has been handwritten in this section.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
The policy was sold during a face-to-face  meeting,  so I think  it is likely that advice was given 
to Mr and Mrs B.
This means  B&B had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps B&B took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs B. It seems Mr and Mrs B cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Bs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs B would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest B&B considered whether they 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN61001955Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded B&B did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded B&B advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded B&B did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Bs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either of them  was not working  for an extended period of time  even allowing for 
limited sick pay benefits they would have  been entitled to.
-Although Mr and Mrs B say they were was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.
-
-Mrs B hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  that could affect her 
ability to claim.
-
-Mr B has told us he experienced  some back pain in 1995 but hasnt been able to tell 
us if this was before  or after the application.  And I note it didnt ever cause him to 
take time off work. I do note that in the PPI section of the mortgage application Mr 
and Mrs B have answered No to a question asking them  if either of them was 
currently suffering with a medical condition. On balance I dont think the back  pain 
experienced by Mr B sometime  in 1995  made the policy  unsuitable.  
-While  the policy included a requirement  that be disabled or unemployed for 60 days 
before they could  make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs B be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  B&B gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what B&B 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr or Mrs B were unable  to work  through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
Ref: DRN61001956But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded B&B 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded B&B gave Mr and Mrs B all of the information  
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Bs. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that B&B ought to have done either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs B. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs B suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policy, had B&B done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded B&B took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
Ref: DRN61001957In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if B&B had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when B&B advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they  thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told them the exact premium  at the point Mr 
and Mrs B applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs B would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for some time,  so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with B&B at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  B&B made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs B would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs B were 
aware of or had received  treatment for in the previous  two years.
 The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back  and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr or Mrs 
B were not permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim Mr and Mrs B be 
unable to do their usual employment or of following any other employment.
Ref: DRN61001958The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest they wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs B has told us 
she didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions. And Mr B has not been able to say if his 
back pain in 1995 occurred before or after he applied for the policy.  Based on the fact the 
sale happened early  in the year, in March, and Mr and Mrs B said they had no medical 
conditions on the mortgage application,  I think its most likely  Mr B didnt have any medical  
conditions at the time. And both Mr and Mrs B were in were  in permanent employment.  So, I 
still think they had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
B might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs B from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if they were not only unable to 
do their job but also unable to do any job , it might  have played into their thinking  about what 
they would  do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although given their 
circumstances and the limited other means  they had to make  their repayments if they were 
not working, on balance, I still think they would have been  interested  in taking out the cover.
B&B may not have  told Mr and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited  to a          
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should they be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if they were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
Ref: DRN61001959and Mrs B would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs B found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude B&B should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think B&B misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of B&Bs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1995  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ref: DRN610019510Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that B&B had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6100195