K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK Plc Barclays (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr R took out in 2000.  It was added  to 
his account shortly after he had applied for the card.
Our adjudicator thought we should  uphold the complaint. Barclays disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Rs original application  form from 2000  when he first applied for his 
credit card. I can see from the application there is a section to select PPI  and PPI has not 
been selected. Barclays  has confirmed this and said that the PPI was added  shortly after he 
applied for the card during  a telephone  call. But it cant say whether Mr R phoned it or the 
other way round.
Barclays hasnt been able to give us any information  about  the phone  call where it says it 
sold PPI to Mr R. So it hasnt given me a copy of the call recording,  transcript  of the call or 
the guidelines that its representative shouldve used when it sold the PPI. So when coming 
to my decision Ive thought about  what Mr R has said and looked  at the information  I have.
Mr R has said Barclays wanted him to take out the account. Barclays  hasnt been able to 
show me anything to indicate how the cover  was presented on the phone  call, or that he 
agreed to have it.
And its not clear to me why, if he knew it was optional, he wouldve agreed to take it only a 
short time after choosing  not to take it when he applied for the card.  So having looked  at 
everything, I dont think Barclays made it clear to Mr R that he had a choice about  taking 
the policy. And I cant be sure that Mr R agreed  to take it.
Barclays has said that the optional nature of the policy shouldve been clear  to Mr R because  
he had his credit card before the PPI was sold. But Barclays hasnt been  able to give me a 
copy of any statements to show that Mr R had used  the card before the PPI was added.  So 
on balance, I dont  think Mr R wouldve known that he didnt have to have the policy  to get 
the credit.
Barclays has also sent us information about the rules governing the selling of PPI at the 
time. Whilst I appreciate  this information, it doesnt  change  my decision  to uphold this 
complaint. I say this because I dont have any information about how this particular PPI 
policy was sold. And therefore  I cant fairly say that the PPI was presented as optional  to 
Ref: DRN64715102Mr R, or that its representative  got Mr Rs consent  before  adding  the PPI to his account.
So, I think Mr R has lost out because  of what Barclays did wrong.
 
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr R in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mr R would have owed when he closed his credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr R owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mr R would  have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mr R would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr R paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr R paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mr R wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Barclays should  tell Mr R what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Jag Dhuphar 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64715103
Ref: DRN6471510