K821x#15complaint
Mr Y, who is represented by his mother,  Mrs Y, complains that Peter Vardy  Limited (PV) 
mis-sold him finance to buy a car.
background
In June 2017 Mr Y bought a car with finance arranged  by PV. He was 19 and the finance 
was a conditional sale agreement provided  by the manufacturer. An application form was 
completed and was auto-accepted by the manufacturer without further checks. Some seven 
months later Mrs Y complained to PV on her sons behalf. She said the finance had been 
mis-sold, but this complaint was rejected.  PV said Mr Y had arrived  at the showroom with the 
appropriate documents and had signed  the relevant paperwork. It also noted he had been 
able to maintain  the payments for seven  months. 
Mrs Y referred the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. He sought further information from PV and it 
said that Mr Y met the criteria for finance,  namely,  he was living with parents with minimal  
outgoings on his credit file. He had a credit trace from 2011and made a good cash 
commitment of £2,000.  The monthly  payments were affordable on his annual  income of 
£18,000 and he had steady employment being  employed for 3 years  1month.
Our adjudicator asked  for evidence  of Mr Ys income and his tax returns and bank 
statements showed that he wasnt employed,  but he was self employed  and earned  much 
less than £18,000. He also supplied bank  statements from the time and these also confirmed 
his income was less than £18,000.
Our adjudicator reviewed  Mr Ys credit file and noted  he had a relatively low score. He also 
saw that since  taking out the finance  Mr Ys situation  had deteriorated and he had a number 
of defaults. 
Our adjudicator concluded that the wrong details  had been put into the application. He said if 
the correct information had been  used than the lender would have asked for further checks  
which would have resulted in the application  being  declined. By putting in the wrong  details 
the application was auto approved. He also noted  that the whole process only took 38 
minutes. 
The car had been repossessed in August 2018 when Mr Y was unable  to keep up the 
payments, but he had made fair use of it while he owned it. Our adjudicator suggested that 
PV end the agreement, refund the deposit  of £2,000 and pay £200 compensation.
PV didnt agree and didnt  accept that it had done anything wrong. It said Mr Y was 
responsible for the information in the application  and he had signed various documents  
setting out the costs.  He hadnt  been  put under duress and he had been  maintaining  
payments for some nine months. It said he was given 20 minutes to consider his budget and 
affordability. It added  that Mr Y had only paid a deposit of £200 and the balance of £1,800 
had come from the manufacturer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64350612I would say at the outset  that I find myself in agreement with our adjudicator who set out his 
opinion in some  detail and I trust both parties  will accept there is no need to repeat that here.
Mr Y was 19 when he visited the showroom and it is clear the information fed into the 
application was wrong. The salesman has left the business and we cannot say what was 
said other than from Mr Ys testimony.  I think it fair to say that at the time Mr Y was not 
financially aware and an experienced salesman would have realised the information being 
put into the system  was wrong. 
Mr Y was still at school in 2014 and his alleged employment couldnt have been for three  
years and one month as claimed. In fact he wasnt employed, but self employed. PV has told 
this service that it saw a copy  of Mr Ys tax return for the previous year showing his self 
employed income was £6,300. It hasnt explained  why it then accepted  an income from 
employment of £18,000.
Even if I were to accept  that Mr Y had misled the salesman, which  I must  say I doubt, I 
cannot see why proper checks werent  carried out. His alleged financial status was clearly 
not as shown on the form and that should have been spotted  by the salesman. The 
alternative is that the salesman used  incorrect information to ensure the application  was 
auto-accepted. Whichever it was I consider that PV was at fault.
Interestingly one of the factors used in evaluating his finances  was his deposit  of £2,000 
which turns  out to have been  only £200. I am satisfied that Mr Y didnt have  £2,000 and that 
he struggled to make  his monthly payments for nine months and finally his finances 
collapsed at which point  his parents stepped  in to help him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Peter Vardy Limited to:
End the conditional  sale agreement  with no further liability to Mr Y and ensure the 
agreement is recorded as settled on his credit  file.
Refund the deposit of £200 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr Y £200 for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6435061