K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Protection and Investment Ltd trading as JDC Independent  Financial 
Advisers (JDC) didnt  act fairly or reasonably when acting as her mortgage broker dealing  
with a re-mortgage. She wants compensation.
background
Miss M wanted to re-mortgage her property  in 2018  and used JDC as her mortgage broker.  
The property was owned under a shared equity scheme between  Miss M and the local 
council. Her current mortgage product had a fixed interest rate due to end by May 2018 (and 
move onto a variable rate), and JDC recommended  another product to her with another  
lender. Miss M was unhappy as she said shed  paid more in costs that she expected and 
paid more interest on the variable rate up to September 2018 when the new mortgage  
started due to delays  (including on her part, but she said the new mortgage  shouldve been 
in place by July). She also said that it took longer to get her council  to agree to the change in 
mortgage than JDC had predicted. Miss M wanted  her legal costs repaid too as she didnt 
know that the lender would want her to use its solicitor, and said that a mortgage pack 
wasnt required so the cost of that should  also be repaid.
Miss M complained to JDC. It said the delays  had been caused by Miss M not responding 
promptly to its emails  and the lender (who had failed to set out its requirements  re the letter  
from the council  and solicitors clearly). JDC pointed out that it wasnt responsible for the time 
taken by the council to supply the letter or the actions of the lender, and that the rule about 
the choice of solicitors  wasnt set out in the key facts documents from the lender, so JDC 
couldnt have  known earlier.
Miss M complained to us. The adjudicators view was that delays to the re-mortgage  were 
caused by the council  and the new lender not telling JDC the information it needed to 
complete  this wasnt JDCs  fault. He didnt think that JDC shouldve known in advance  
what the new lender  wanted due to the nature of the mortgage  product; it had previously told 
Miss M that it hadnt dealt with this type of product with this lender before and Miss M herself 
knew that the product wasnt straight-forward. And the adjudicator said that the lender 
appeared to have failed  to have told Miss M that she had to use its solicitors  to get the 
interest rate she wanted; again,  he said that this wasnt JDCs fault. He said that the 
mortgage pack had been done on the request of Miss Ms solicitors, and this wasnt  the 
responsibility of JDC.
Miss M disagreed. She said JDC shouldve known everything that the new lender would 
want to see. The adjudicator said that it was for the lender  to set out the terms of the 
mortgage and that he thought JDC had acted fairly and reasonably.  Miss M wanted an 
ombudsmans view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN62936832It is correct that brokers arent  responsible for the actions of third parties, such as lenders or 
a council. The role of the broker is to recommend a mortgage product that meets  the needs 
of the consumer and is affordable; any other advice is technically outside of its core role and 
is simply assisting  the process.  That said, brokers should act fairly and reasonably  and 
supply relevant information  to a consumer when it knows,  or ought  reasonably  to have 
known, that information.
In Miss Ms case, the lender recommended had only just started to deal with this particular 
product. This meant that its practice  in respect  of these products wasnt  known by JDC or 
anyone else, which means it was fair and reasonable for JDC not to have been able to 
predict that the lender  would ask for a letter from the council. The letter  wasnt  set out in the 
list of likely documents to be needed  by the lender.  JDC told Miss M about the lenders 
requirement when  it was told of the requirement  by the lender.  The decision of the lender to 
ask for such  a letter is not JDCs fault;  neither is the time that the council took to produce the 
letter. Its clear  from the emails that JDC was surprised by both the lenders requirement for 
a letter  from the council and the actions of the council itself. In my view, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to expect  JDC to pay the extra interest paid by Miss M up to September 2018;  it 
didnt cause the delay.
The lending policy that a particular solicitor is used  to get a product is unusual  in my 
experience, but may be due to the fact that this product was new for the lender in question.  
There was nothing in the key facts  information  warning JDC or Miss M that such  a rule would 
be applied, though the free legal fee offer was mentioned. Again, JDC couldnt tell Miss M 
about the policy until it was notified  and I cant say that it ought reasonably to have known in 
the circumstances. The same logic applies to the mortgage pack   theres no evidence that 
JDC was responsible for Miss Ms solicitors  producing one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 13 
April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6293683