K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited voided his motorbike insurance.
background
Mr P took out insurance for his bike through a broker, underwritten by Highway. After the 
policy was in place,  Highway made  some  checks of information that had been given when it 
was set up.
Highway noticed  that the central claims database showed two motor insurance claims had 
been made by Mr P in the last three  years. When applying for the policy, hed only declared 
one. Highway said that meant hed made  a misrepresentation when applying for the policy, 
and had it known  it wouldnt  have offered the policy. It voided the policy   that is, cancelled it 
as if it had never existed   and refunded the premiums via the broker.
Mr P complained. He accepted he hadnt disclosed the other claim. But he said that was 
unintentional and he hadnt tried to conceal it. As soon as Highway asked him about  it, he 
was reminded about it and gave Highway all the information  it had asked for. He accepted  
Highway wouldnt insure him. But he wanted the record  of the voidance removed because it 
was making it hard and more expensive for him to find alternative insurance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the things I have to take into account  in cases like this is the relevant law, to be found 
in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act. In brief,  the Act says that 
someone applying  for insurance has a duty to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. If a misrepresentation  is made, and the insurer can show that had it 
known the truth it would  never  have  agreed the policy, it can void it. But if the 
misrepresentation was careless, rather than deliberate or reckless,  it should refund the 
premiums. 
Ive looked carefully  at the question Mr P was asked when he took out the policy. He was 
clearly asked whether  hed had any claims of any sort, for any vehicle in the last three  years. 
He declared one claim. But that wasnt accurate; in fact hed had two.
Its not enough, though,  to show that there  was a misrepresentation. It must be shown that 
Mr P didnt take reasonable care not to make  one.
Mr P says this was an honest  mistake. He had no intention of misleading Highway. The 
second claim had slipped  his mind  and as soon as he was reminded of it, later on, he told 
Highway all about  it.
I accept what Mr P says. I dont think he set out to mislead Highway.  But  I do think he was 
careless in not declaring the second claim.  The claim related to theft from his vehicle, with 
related damage  being caused, around two years earlier. Id have expected  Mr P to have 
remembered it  or, at least,  to have checked his records to remind himself of whether hed 
made any claims  before  he answered  the question. He did mention the other claim. That 
Ref: DRN67205442he didnt mention this one shows,  to my mind, that he didnt take reasonable care in 
answering the question.
Highway has shown  us its underwriting criteria. It doesnt insure  customers  of motorbike 
policies who have had two fault or loss claims in the last three years. If it had known Mr P 
had had two such  claims,  it wouldnt have offered him a policy,  and the broker  would have 
found a different underwriter instead.
Taking into account the law, then, I think Highway was entitled  to void Mr Ps policy in the 
way it did. There was some poor communication  about this between Mr P and the broker,  
which has been dealt  with in a separate complaint, but I dont  think thats enough  to say 
Highway couldnt  take the action it did.
Finally, Ive thought  about whether it was fair for Highway to void the policy  and place the 
record of doing  so on the central database. I take Mr Ps point that he didnt deliberately  
mislead Highway,  and its made it harder for him to find other insurance than it would if 
Highway had recorded that hed cancelled the policy. But the law isnt just about whether he 
set out to mislead, as Ive set out above   its also about whether he took reasonable care to 
give accurate answers. I dont think he did, and I dont think its unfair for Highway to record  
that. What its recorded is an accurate record of what happened,  and one of the purposes of 
the central database is so that insurers can check relevant information about policyholders 
and applicants. I dont  think  fairness  requires me to tell Highway to change  what  the 
database says about the circumstances in which the policy  came  to an end.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6720544