K820x#14complaint
Mr H has made a wide ranging complaint on behalf of his wife, Mrs H, and several members 
of her family. 
Very briefly, Mrs H and her family are unhappy about the way Lloyds Bank Plc has behaved 
in its capacity as trustee of a family trust.
background
Mrs Hs grandmother,  who I will call Mrs M, died in 1983. Lloyds was the sole executor of 
her estate.
Lloyds told us that the administration  of Mrs Ms estate was completed in April 1987,  with the 
trust commencing shortly afterwards. As at April 1987, all the assets held in the trust had 
been transferred  from Mrs Ms estate.  Lloyds was, and remains,  the sole trustee  of the trust.  
I believe Lloyds and Mrs Ms family agree as to the terms of the trust. I understand there is 
some disagreement  as to what  the terms should  be  and as to what  should  have been done 
when Mrs Ms will was drafted  but there  is no disagreement as to the actual terms of the 
trust. Lloyds  summarised the position as follows:
The late [Mrs Ms] six grandchildren  receive in varying proportions, the income 
generated from the investment portfolio and rental  properties in the Trust. On the 
death of the grandchildren, their respective children will be entitled to a life interest  
in their deceased parents share  of the income for up to a period  of 21 years  from the 
death of the last surviving grandchild. After the 21 year period has ended the capital 
is distributable to the late [Mrs Ms] great  grandchildren  and issue, and the Trust 
comes to an end. The actual beneficiaries who will eventually receive the capital will 
therefore not be known for several  years  to come.
Mrs H and her family have been concerned  about Lloyds actions for a very long time.  Those  
concerns go right back to the drafting of Mrs Ms will in the late 1970s, and continue to this 
day. There has been significant  correspondence  between Lloyds and Mrs Hs family,  
including a previous complaint in 2004.
Following further complaints, Lloyds responded in June 2018. Mrs H and her family were not 
happy with that response, and asked the Financial  Ombudsman Service to consider their 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2020.  I said:
my role
I will start by setting  out what I will  and will not  be doing in relation to this 
complaint.
As our website explains, when we receive  a complaint a case handler will review it 
and then share their initial thoughts with both sides. In most cases  that case  handler 
will be an investigator or an adjudicator.  Here,  given the nature of the complaint  and 
the issues raised, I have  carried  out that initial review myself in my capacity as an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN61058832My aim in issuing this provisional decision is to set out my opinion  as to a fair and 
reasonable resolution to the complaint. I will also explain the points that I consider 
most relevant. 
I am mindful  that this is a complaint where the two sides are very far apart. Mrs H 
and her family take the position that Lloyds has committed fraud,  been  negligent, and 
that its criminality and errors have deprived them of hundreds of thousands of 
pounds. Lloyds position is that it gave a good service, it has done nothing  wrong,  
and it should not have  to pay any compensation at all.
Understandably, both sides have strong feelings  on this matter.  They  have set out 
their respective positions in considerable detail  and I confirm  that I have taken into 
account everything they have provided.  But I have not responded in the same level of 
detail. I do not intend  any discourtesy by that; it simply reflects the informal  nature of 
the ombudsman  service. I am required to reach  an outcome  that I am satisfied is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances, and I am required to give reasons for that 
outcome. But I am not required to respond individually to each point raised  by the 
parties, and I have not done so. Similarly, whilst I am required to take the relevant 
law into account, I am not required to give a detailed explanation of exactly  what  the 
relevant law says.
It appears that Mr and Mrs H would like me to carry out a complete audit of Lloyds 
handling over the trust  including the circumstances  that led to the creation of the 
trust  looking for any errors Lloyds might  have made over that period. But it is not 
my role to carry out an audit. Instead, my role is to consider  all the evidence  and 
decide whether,  overall, Lloyds has acted fairly, and taken reasonable care in acting 
as trustee. That does  not mean I will look at the evidence and decide whether I would 
have taken any of the individual decisions Lloyds made  had I been  in Lloyds place. 
My role is to assess whether Lloyds acted with reasonable  care, not to substitute my 
own judgement  for Lloyds.
Both sides now have a chance  to raise new points, ask me to look again at certain 
issues, and provide further evidence. Their responses to this provisional decision 
might cause me to change my mind about  any aspect of the complaint. If that 
happens, I will issue a further provisional  decision to take account of that new 
evidence  setting  out how and why I have changed my mind. Otherwise, I will issue  
a final decision along the same lines as this provisional decision.
Once I have issued my final decision, the Financial  Ombudsman Services process 
will be at an end. No ombudsman, no matter  how senior, has the power to overrule 
another ombudsmans decisions. It is therefore  very important that both sides make 
sure they provide me with all the evidence they want me to consider before I issue 
my final decision.
my provisional findings
Subject to the limitations I set out below, I have  considered all the available  evidence 
and arguments  to decide what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN61058833Unless either side provides anything that persuades me to change  my mind  on these 
points, I will not investigate:
The validity or legality  of Mrs Ms will. Disputes about the validity  of a will are 
a matter for the courts, not for the ombudsman service.  In this case, I 
understand that probate was finalised more than thirty years ago. But even if 
it had been finalised  more recently,  I would have had no power to interfere  
with it  or with the terms of any bequests within Mrs Ms will.  
Whether Lloyds could or should have invited  a member of Mrs Ms family to 
be co-executer of her estate. I have  no power  to make an order  that would 
have any effect on the administration  of Mrs Ms estate. I note that if a 
member of Mrs Ms family  had wanted  to administer her estate, they could 
have made the appropriate application to the courts  back  in the 1980s. It 
appears they did not do so. Regardless  of why they did not  and regardless 
of whether Lloyds  could or should  have invited them to do so  I have no 
power to interfere with the administration of Mrs Ms estate.
The length of time Lloyds  took to investigate this complaint. I have no power  
to investigate complaints about complaint handling; that is not an activity 
covered by the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
I set out my findings  on the other issues Mr H and his family complain about below.
the quality of the documentation Lloyds has produced
Mr and Mrs H say that Lloyds actions between 1983  and 1990 are a mystery to 
them. They have explained that Lloyds has provided them with thousands of pages 
of records for the period 1992 to 2004, but only a couple of hundred pages for the 
period 1983 to 1990. They would like Lloyds to provide full and complete records with 
respect to Mrs M and this trust from 1983 onwards.  I understand they suspect Lloyds 
failure to provide full records indicates  wrongdoing on its part, in respect  of tax and 
other issues.
Lloyds says it cannot comply with Mr and Mrs Hs request,  because  it does not have 
the records they want to see. It says it introduced a new electronic  system for in 
1990, and it no longer  holds all the paper records created before that date. It says it 
has given Mrs H and her family the available records.
There is also a dispute between Mr and Mrs H and Lloyds about the authenticity of 
some of the documents Lloyds  has produced. Mr and Mrs H note that some of the 
documents are on plain paper rather than Lloyds letterhead, and that some notes 
are handwritten in pencil.  I understand they suspect some or all of those documents 
no longer reflect the original position and have been altered at a later date by 
members of Lloyds staff. Lloyds denies any wrongdoing. 
My own view is that I see nothing to criticise in Lloyds inability to provide complete 
records from the 1980s. Lloyds is not required to keep records  indefinitely, and it 
would not be fair for me to assume that Lloyds has done something wrong purely on 
the basis that its records are not complete. In particular, there isnt enough evidence 
for me to conclude  that Lloyds  made any errors with respect to tax during the 1980s.
Ref: DRN61058834Similarly, I see nothing suspicious in the fact that some of Lloyds documents  are 
handwritten. I acknowledge Mr Hs point that it is easy  to make amendments to notes 
that have been handwritten in pencil. But the fact that it would be easy  to make  a 
change doesnt  imply that Lloyds  deliberately altered any of the documents.
I do acknowledge that Lloyds appears  to have made at least  one mistake.  Mr and 
Mrs H have noted the value of the estate  that was given at probate on 1st July 1983  
includes two property sold values  that happened after probate, one being sold in dec 
1995. Mr and Mrs H say that Lloyds  initially  told them a document had been 
produced in 1983, but later said it had been produced much later.  I appreciate that 
mistakes of that sort will not have done  anything  to increase Mr and Mrs H and their 
familys confidence in Lloyds. But they do not in themselves imply fraud.
I am aware  that some  of the file copies Lloyds  has provided are on plain paper rather 
than headed paper. I note that where records are held in paper format  rather  than 
electronically, it is common for them to be printed on plain paper rather than on more 
expensive letterheaded paper. That does not it itself show wrongdoing.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H say there  are serious discrepancies with Lloyds 
figures, and they believe  Lloyds  may not have been  properly reporting  income  when 
completing the trusts accounts. But they havent specified exactly what those 
discrepancies are, and they havent explained  to Lloyds or to our service   exactly  
how they calculated  their own figures. 
Lloyds believes Mr and Mrs H might have been  trying to match the income  they 
received over particular  quarters with the income recorded on tax certificates. If that 
is the case, then I agree  with Lloyds  that those figures would not necessarily match   
apart from any discrepancies over dates, Lloyds has explained that reserves are 
retained by the Bank from the income  that arises, to be used to meet  larger property 
related expenses that may arise  from time to time.
If Mr and Mrs H provide  more evidence  on this issue  or any other  I will of course  
consider it. But on the basis  on the evidence I have seen so far, I have no concerns 
about the quality of Lloyds documentation.
whether Lloyds has properly considered the beneficiaries interests
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  that Lloyds did not meet them to discuss  their attitude  to 
risk, or to consult with them about  how the trust should be administered.  In particular, 
they say the trust could  run another 60-80 years before being cashed  in, 
investments should  [therefore] be very low risk and gaining  value  slowly  over a very 
long period.
Lloyds says it is required to balance its duties to Mrs H and her cousins with its duties 
to the other beneficiaries.  It says:
Given the number of grand-children entitled  to receive the income and the 
number of beneficiaries entitled to receive the capital in the long term (several  
of whom may be minors and not yet born), it is not possible to obtain 
instructions from all of the beneficiaries in relation to the management of the 
Trust. It is also not appropriate for the Trustees  to ascertain the personal 
Ref: DRN61058835financial circumstances of the beneficiaries but to ensure the Trust is 
managed in a way which balances the interests of those who have an interest 
in the income  and those who have a longer term interest in the capital. With 
this type of trust the way in which the assets are managed cannot be swayed 
by the individual circumstances of any one beneficiary.
I know Mr and Mrs H have strong feelings  on this point, but I am satisfied that Lloyds 
is correct. I am not aware of any law, rule, standard or best practice that would 
require Lloyds to consult with or obtain instructions from all of the beneficiaries. 
Indeed, as Lloyds have  said in this case it is required to balance the interests of 
Mrs Ms grandchildren with the interests of potentially unborn beneficiaries  and so it 
is not even possible  for Lloyds  to consult with all beneficiaries.  
I also note that Mr and Mrs Hs opinion  that very long investment  periods should be 
matched with very low risk is not a universally held opinion. Many investment 
professionals hold the opposite view  that very low risk (or cash) is appropriate for 
very short terms, but those investing  over a longer period  will generally  benefit from 
taking more than a very low level of risk. I see nothing to criticise in Lloyds decision 
not to take Mrs Hs  or her cousins  individual attitudes to risk into account.   
investment choices
Mr and Mrs H have suggested that the investment performance of the trusts assets 
is so poor as to suggest that something must have gone seriously wrong. 
In my view, Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  about investment choices is related to their 
complaint about  the accuracy of Lloyds records. If Mr and Mrs H are right to say that 
Lloyds has not properly recorded  the trusts income and relevant transactions,  then it 
would not be possible for me to even begin to assess the trusts investment 
performance. But as I have said,  I have seen nothing to suggest  Lloyds  records  are 
inaccurate. Lloyds  records are certainly incomplete  in that it cannot say exactly  
what happened during the early years of the trust  but I do not criticise it for that. 
Lloyds is not required to keep records indefinitely.
Overall, I do not see anything here that suggests Lloyds failed to act with reasonable 
care when making investment choices in its capacity  as trustee.
sale of properties
Mr and Mrs H have many concerns about  the sale of properties  formerly belonging to 
Mrs M. In particular,  they are concerned  about  possible  collusion between Lloyds 
staff and the estate  agency and legal staff involved  in the sale of the properties. They 
are also concerned that the personal relationships  between the various 
organisations staff members (and their relatives) amount to a conflict of interest, and 
that the estate  agents staff have acted  fraudulently.
Lloyds denies  that any of the relevant staff have acted in any way inappropriately. 
Having carefully reviewed the evidence available to me, I have  not seen anything  that 
leads me to be concerned about the behaviour of Lloyds or its agents. 
insurance costs
Ref: DRN61058836There is a dispute  about the premium paid to insure  the trusts properties.  Mr H says 
the premiums the trust is paying  are far too high, and he can find quotes for much  
less. Mr and Mrs H have also expressed concern that the rebuild costs noted on the 
insurance policies  for some of the properties are well in excess of that propertys 
value. They feel that the insurance  costs are so high as to indicate  fraud.
Mr and Mrs H are also suspicious that Lloyds  may have made  undeclared claims 
against the insurance policies over the years,  and that that is the reason for the high 
premiums. In addition, they say a tenant had to be evicted in 2019, but the insurance 
policy didnt cover the legal costs for the eviction or the trusts  loss of rent. 
Lloyds says that, in general, it costs more to insure  a property as a trustee than as an 
owner-occupier. It also says it has insured the trust for loss of rent as well as damage  
to physical buildings.
I acknowledge that Mr H says he has spoken to insurers who are extremely  sceptical 
about some  of Lloyds  explanations, but he hasnt  provided me with any comments 
from those insurers. Lloyds explanation is consistent with my own knowledge in this 
area, and I accept it. 
I also note that rebuild cost depends primarily on building materials and labour  costs, 
and in general is not quite  as sensitive to location as property value. For example, it 
is possible for a house in central London  to have a similar rebuild cost to a similarly 
sized house two hundred  miles  away, even though  the London property may have a 
much higher  resale  value.
I accept Lloyds explanations. I see nothing here to suggest that Lloyds has acted 
unreasonably. It may not have obtained  the cheapest possible premiums, but it is not 
required to do that  it is permitted to take factors other than price into account when 
choosing insurance  for the trusts properties.
costs and fees
Mr and Mrs H have questioned whether  the fees Lloyds  charged for acting as trustee 
were justified and legal. They have also asked questions about  the cost of property 
maintenance, and other costs charged to the trust.
I have seen nothing  to suggest that any of the fees charged were inappropriate.  I 
accept that other firms do not have the same  charging structure as Lloyds, but that 
does not mean there is anything wrong in Lloyds charging what  it does. Similarly, 
Lloyds agents  will not always have carried out maintenance in the cheapest possible 
way, but it is not required  to do that.
other issues
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H have  raised  other concerns about Lloyds. I have 
not commented on all of those concerns; instead, I have concentrated on what I 
consider to be the key points of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
I would like to assure  both parties  that I have considered every piece of evidence  
submitted, even where I have not explicitly commented on it. Overall, I have not seen  
Ref: DRN61058837anything that leads me to believe that it would be appropriate for me to order  Lloyds 
to make a payment  to any of the complainants.
Lloyds accepted my provisional findings, but Mr H and his family  did not. They  provided  
detailed explanations of their reasons for disagreeing, and I confirm  that I have read those 
documents in full.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from the outset in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
whilst I am sorry  to disappoint Mr H and his family, there is very little I can add to my earlier 
comments. I have reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision, and I 
now confirm those provisional conclusions as final.
As Ive said,  it is not my role to carry out an audit of everything Lloyds has done  in relation to 
the trust.  Instead,  my role  as set out in our rules   is to determine [this] complaint by 
reference to what  is, in [my] opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. 
The ombudsman service  is not a court of law, and a final decision  is not a court  judgment. 
As an ombudsman, I cannot  provide Mr and Mrs H with a declaration as to what the law says 
in any particular area. But I dont want the parties to think  that means I dont understand the 
relevant law. My point  is simply that I have  the role and powers  set out in the Financial  
Services and Markets  Act 2000 and in our rules.  I do not have the role or powers  of a judge, 
and I do not have the power to call witnesses to give evidence under oath.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H are uncomfortable with my role. They do not want  a 
decision based on my opinion; they want a decision setting  out full lawful  answers, 
explanations and evidence from Lloyds.  But as an ombudsman, my decisions are relatively 
informal  and I am not required  to give the detailed explanations that Mr and Mrs H are 
looking for.
I am satisfied that both Lloyds and the complainants  have had a fair opportunity to provide 
me with all the evidence  they would like me to consider. I am also satisfied that I do not need 
to request any further evidence on order to make a fair decision.  I know  Mr and Mrs H would 
like me to ask Lloyds for evidence from specific individuals, but I see no need  to do that. 
Similarly, I am satisfied with the documents Lloyds has provided. I acknowledge that Lloyds 
has not provided me with all the documents Mr and Mrs H have  requested; it says that is 
because it no longer has those documents. I accept  its evidence on that point. Lloyds is not 
required to keep documents forever,  and I have  no concerns about its inability to produce  
documents from many years ago.
Moving on to the merits of the complaint, I have carefully reviewed the evidence 
Mr and Mrs H have provided  since I issued  my provisional decision. But I have  seen nothing  
in it that persuades me to change my mind. For the reasons I explained  in my provisional 
decision, I have  seen nothing to suggest that Lloyds  has done anything  illegal or unlawful. 
As an ombudsman it is open  to me to uphold  a complaint despite a banks compliance with 
the law. If I am satisfied  that it is fair and reasonable for me to order  a bank  to pay 
compensation, I may make that order even if the bank has done nothing illegal or unlawful.  
Ref: DRN61058838But in the specific  circumstances here,  I see no reason to exercise my discretion to uphold  
this complaint. Overall,  I consider that Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs H, their family, and the 
other beneficiaries fairly. 
I recognise that the parties are now in a difficult position. Mr and Mrs H are firm in their belief  
that Lloyds has fraudulent  deprived them of hundreds  of thousands of pounds  and whilst I 
disagree with them,  I think is unlikely that I have  persuaded them otherwise. The parties 
have little to no confidence in each  other,  and that will inevitably have an impact on their 
future relationship. 
I am aware  that Lloyds has offered to resign in favour of another  professional trustee  
(subject to the agreement  of all beneficiaries). I would encourage Mr and Mrs H to give 
careful thought  to that offer. Whilst I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong, I do think  
that a fresh  start might  be beneficial to everyone. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc. I make  no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the complainants  
to accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2021.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6105883