K820x#14complaint
Mr D complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Bradford & Bingley  plc (Bradford  & Bingley).
background
Mr D took out the PPI when he applied for a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley  in March 
1991. Mr D said that he applied for the mortgage during a meeting, and was advised to take 
the PPI, but he wasnt given  enough  information about it and wasnt aware it had been 
added to his mortgage. Bradford & Bingley said that it had not recommended  the PPI for Mr 
D.
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr D at a monthly  cost 
of £6.50. The monthly  benefit was £130.00.  If Mr D had made  a successful claim, the policy  
couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley  sent in copies of the mortgage  application  form and offer from 1991. As 
the sale took place in a meeting,  I cant know how the adviser explained  the PPI. But I can 
see from the mortgage application  that theres  a section headed payment protection  
insurance, which shows answers to eligibility questions, the level of cover  chosen (Mr D 
couldve had a policy that covered accident and sickness only)  and the amount of benefit. 
And theres  a separate box that he couldve ticked to say that he didnt want  PPI at all. From 
whats on the form I think its likely that there  was some  discussion about the PPI, so as to 
be able to complete  that section of the application.  So overall I think Mr D was aware of the 
PPI and chose  to take it  I think he probably just doesnt remember  doing so as it was all so 
long ago. 
Bradford & Bingley  and Mr D disagree over whether the PPI was recommended for Mr D. 
But this doesnt  affect my decision, because even if I treat this as an advised sale  which 
holds Bradford & Bingley  to a higher standard  it doesnt seem an unreasonable  
recommendation to have  made. 
As Ive said,  I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things  not 
covered. But I cant see that Mr D wouldve been  affected by any of these. 
Mr D told us he wouldve been  entitled  to sick pay from his employer of three weeks full pay. 
He also said he didnt  have any savings at the time,  but couldve relied on his family to help 
out. However, their circumstances  couldve changed, so I dont think  their help couldve  been 
guaranteed. So I think  Mr D couldve found  it difficult to meet the mortgage  payments once 
Ref: DRN61524112his sick pay ended or if he lost his job. And Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve paid out 
for up to 24 months in the event  of a successful claim. 
Its not clear how the cost of the PPI was explained  to Mr D, although Bradford and Bingley 
sent in an explanatory leaflet from the time of the sale,  which  showed example  costs for 
different benefit  levels. So I think its likely that Mr D had some  idea how much the cost 
would be when he applied  for the mortgage  and PPI. 
On balance, although I cant know whether Bradford & Bingley clearly explained all of the 
policy details, I think Mr D would still have bought the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if he couldnt work. And I think Mr D could reasonably have wanted to protect an 
important commitment that was secured on his home.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Which means Bradford & Bingley doesnt  
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But Bradford & Bingley will pay back  
some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:  
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr D about that. Because Bradford & Bingley 
didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford  & Bingley should also pay back to Mr D any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr D the extra he paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bradford & Bingley 
should also pay Mr D 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN61524113my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley plc does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bradford  & Bingley plc does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6152411