K820x#14complaint
Mr R took out a packaged bank account  (PBA) with Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) from 
May 1996 for which  he was charged  a monthly  fee. He says it was mis-sold.
background
Mr R took out the following accounts with Barclays:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current January 1993 No
Additions May 1996 Yes
Additions Plus January 2007 Yes
Current with Tech and Travel pack January 2017 Yes
Mr R says that he was told he had to take out the Additions PBA in order to get an overdraft, 
and he has not otherwise  used much of the benefits  from that account or the PBAs that 
followed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PBA was mis-sold but Mr R disagrees  so the case has come 
to me to decide.
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Rs complaint.
I will look at the sale of each of the fee paid accounts separately. In each case  I need  to 
consider whether he knew he had a choice between taking out a fee free account or the PBA 
he bought; whether Barclays  advised him to take out the account or not; whether Barclays  
provided him with enough information; and, if the sale was advised  then whether the account  
was suitable for him.  
Additions account sale May 96
Due to lack of records  its not been possible to know when this sale took place  exactly. 
Barclays have statements that show that he did have this account in February 1998, and as 
packaged bank  accounts were only available  from May 1996,  Ive assumed this was the 
approximate date of sale.
Mr R has been clear  in his testimony that he believes that he was not given any choice as he 
was told that he could only have an account with an overdraft if he took out the fee paying  
Additions account. Barclays says it did give Mr R a choice.
I dont doubt Mr Rs honest recollections  on this but I think  its more  likely than not that his 
memory is mistaken and he did know he had a choice. I say this because Mr R had 
previously had a fee free account  with Barclays for many years so I think  he would have 
queried any advice  that told him he had to pay a fee for an account. I have no systemic 
evidence from Barclays practices  at the time that it wasnt offering a choice between  fee free 
accounts with overdrafts and fee paying  accounts  with overdrafts. And I also think its more 
Ref: DRN62023952likely than not that Mr R would have known that fee free accounts with overdraft facilities  
were available from many other  banks  and building societies as these were widely 
advertised and used. So I know this will be disappointing for Mr R but Im not able to say that 
I think he was completely unaware  he had other  options as I would have to in order  to 
uphold his complaint on this point.
So I think Mr R did know he had a choice about  whether to take out the Additions  account 
and he chose to do so.
Did Barclays advise him to take out the Additions  account? 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
Additions account to Mr R personally  or advise him to take it out. Mr R says that Barclays  did 
advise him to take out the Additions account. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr Rs needs and circumstances or suitability checks  to show  me clearly 
that Barclays did make a personal  recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mr R and explaining  the benefits of the Additions  account, Barclays  
may have  said or implied that it was good idea to take it out. But this isnt the same as giving 
personal recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of Barclays  sales  
practices throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that Barclays sold the Additions 
account to Mr R on an information only basis. This means  Barclays did not have to ensure  that 
the Additions account was suitable for Mr R at the time of the sale.
So the only requirement on Barclays was to provide him with enough information  for him to 
make an informed choice.
Did Barclays provide  Mr R with enough  information about the Additions account?
The Additions account benefits  included  purchase protection, cardholder  protection,  no fees 
for going overdrawn, and a £100 interest free overdraft buffer.
I dont know what information Barclays gave to Mr R although  clearly  Mr R did have 
substantial discussions with Barclays who were  trying  to sell him the account.
Barclays has provided evidence that Mr R had been going overdrawn  regularly  before the date 
of sale, and he would have paid a £5 fee per month each time he did so. He also continued to 
go overdrawn regularly for a substantial period after the sale.
So I think its more likely  than not that when Barclays explained that the Additions account had 
a monthly fee of the same amount  he was being  charged for going overdrawn each month on 
his fee free account, and that there was no fee for going overdrawn on the Additions account 
and an interest free £100 overdrawn buffer zone, this was of interest  to him. And I think  he 
saw it as useful  enough  for him to decide  to take out the account. I also note that Mr R 
registered for card secure in July 1996  and made a claim on card secure in December 2003.
So in my view even  if Barclays  didnt  provide  Mr R with all the information about  the Additions  
account I think its more  likely than not Mr R wouldve chosen to take out the account  due to 
the overdraft and other benefits. 
Ref: DRN62023953So overall, I dont  think Mr R lost out in the Additions  account sale,  and I cant uphold his 
complaint on this.
Additions Plus sale January 2007
By the time of this sale Mr R was an experienced user of banking facilities,  and for the same  
reasons I gave above I think  he would have been  aware that a fee free account  with an 
overdraft would have  been available to him at this time if he wanted  one. So I think he chose 
to take out the Additions Plus account  and pay the higher fee.
The Additions Plus account  benefits  included travel insurance, car breakdown  cover, mobile 
phone insurance,  a fee and interest  free overdraft facility of up to £250  and cheaper interest  
rate on overdrafts over this level. The cost was £14.50 a month.
In this case I will assume the sale was advised  as it is to Mr Rs advantage and makes no 
difference to the outcome of the case.  If Barclays advised Mr R to buy the Additions  Plus 
account, it wouldve  needed to ensure it was suitable for him. And I think  it was. I say this 
because Mr R travelled  abroad  each  year;  he had a car and used the car breakdown service 
in September  2008 and October  2104; he registered  mobile  phones  for insurance cover  in 
October 2006, January 2008  and February 2013; and he continued  to use the overdraft 
facility. 
Mr R has said that he didnt use all the benefits  of the account. But I think its more likely 
than not that because  of his extensive use described above,  he was aware  of all the benefits 
and couldve  used  others if he wished to.
So overall, I dont  think Mr R lost out in the Additions  Plus account sale,  and I cant  uphold  his 
complaint on this.
Tech and Travel  pack sale January 2017
In 2016, the Additions Plus account that Mr R had had for ten years  cost £16 a month. Its 
main benefits were worldwide travel  insurance,  car breakdown cover, free mobile phone 
insurance, and gadget  insurance.
Barclays says it wrote to Mr R in September 2016  saying it was closing  Additions  Plus 
accounts and it offered  him a current account  with a Travel Pack  and a Tech Pack instead. 
The Travel  Pack (worldwide travel insurance) and Tech Pack (mobile  phone and gadget 
insurance) had the same main benefits  as the Additions Plus account  and cost £18 a month 
together in total. In its letter Barclays explained that he could have a fee free account  but if it 
didnt hear from him, it would transfer  his account to the current  account with Travel  Pack  
and Tech Pack.
Mr R didnt reply  so Barclays says it wrote to him again in January 2017 saying his account  
was now a current account with Travel and Tech Pack, but he could cancel it at any time.
Ive looked at the letters Barclays sent to Mr R in September  2016  and January 2017. They  
are correctly addressed  so I think its more likely than not that he received at least  one of 
these. And I think there is enough information in either of the first two letters to enable Mr R to 
realise what was happening and make  an informed decision.
Ref: DRN62023954So, I think its more likely  than not that he did receive one of the original letters  notifying him of 
the change in September 2106 and January 2017,  and didnt reply,  hence facilitating the 
account change. 
summary
So, overall I think that in each  sale Mr R knew he had a choice and chose to take out the 
accounts, and I dont think Mr R lost out as result of anything Barclays may have done  wrong.  
So I cant uphold Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6202395