K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the way United  Legal Assistance Limited (ULA) have handled his 
claim after he was involved in a road traffic accident.  
background
In late November 2018, Mr G was involved in a road traffic accident. Mr G said he wasnt  at 
fault for the accident, he used the services of ULA,  an accident management company 
(AMC). This meant he didnt make  a claim against his motor  insurance policy.  And wouldnt 
have to pay the excess agreed within  his motor insurance policy  towards the repair  of his 
car.
Mr G gave ULA the details of an independent witness to the accident. Mr G said ULA didnt 
do enough to get the witness  statement. And without this the third-party insurer  (TPI)  
wouldnt accept liability for the accident.  Mr G said hed had to make a claim against his 
motor insurance policy  to get his car repaired. And hed had to pay the excess amount - 
£350, towards the repair of his car. He said ULA, as they hadnt got the witness statement, 
should have negotiated a reduction to the amount of excess he had to pay.
ULA said it had tried several times to get the witness to provide their statement so that they 
could challenge  the TPIs version of events. And theyd recovered the excess  Mr G had paid, 
after his car was repaired through his insurer.
Mr G wasnt happy with ULAs response  and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the delay in Mr Gs claim being settled was because the witness hadnt 
returned their statement  which  he couldnt hold ULA responsible for. He said ULA had acted 
reasonably in what theyd done.
Mr G didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Were an informal dispute resolution  service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means we are impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more  weight  on 
one sides  story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given and use that to decide whats more likely to have happened.
It isnt our role to consider who was at fault for the accident or to investigate  the accident  
claim. But to look to see whether ULA has acted fairly  and reasonably in handling Mr Gs 
claim. 
ULA, as an AMC, aim to provide their customers with a hire vehicle, if needed and repair  the 
damage caused to the vehicle by the accident. And claim these  costs  back from the TPI. As 
part of the claims process ULA have a duty to mitigate costs as the TPI can refuse  to pay. 
Ref: DRN61194432The TPI will act on behalf of their policyholder,  and without  an independent witness 
statement theyd rely on their policy holders version of event. As they did in this case, and 
challenge liability.
I can see Mr G feels  very strongly about  whats happened here, as he had an independent 
witness who he said had clearly seen  that he wasnt the cause of the accident. But the 
provision of a witness statement isnt something ULA can force.  And I can see they tried by 
various methods,  email  and telephone to get the witness  to provide a statement so they 
could challenge  the TPI about  liability. The witness does refer to this contact when he says 
hes unable  to respond due to work commitments. 
I can understand, given  the accident  was in November 2018, Mr Gs frustration about this. 
As liability was still to be decided, Mr G made a claim on his motor insurance  policy  so he 
could get his car repaired. And as he was now claiming under his motor insurance  policy,  he 
had to pay £350  his excess   towards  the repair. 
As Mr G had now made a claim with his own insurer for the repair  of his car, ULA was left to 
recover any financial loss hed had from the TPI. This being £350,  the excess he had to pay 
towards the repair of his car. Mr G has said ULA should have been proactive in negotiating a 
reduction to this amount. But this wasnt their role. Mr Gs excess had been agreed  between 
him and his insurer at the time he took out his motor insurance policy.  And it wasnt  for ULA 
to change that, their role was to recover the amount paid by Mr G.
ULA asked Mr G, in early January 2019, to provide  evidence that hed paid the excess for 
them to claim back the cost from the TPI. But it wasnt until late January that the witness  
returned the completed statement.  And ULA had to allow time for the TPI to await  comments 
from their policy  holder about the content of the witness statement. 
I can see it wasnt until February 2019 the TPI accepted liability.  And upon Mr G providing  
ULA with the receipt they were  able to obtain  full recovery  of the amount hed paid. 
I know Mr G will be disappointed  with my decision. And I can understand his frustration 
about the time his claim has taken to get resolved. But I cant  hold ULA responsible for that. 
So, I wont ask them to do anything more as Im satisfied ULA has acted  fairly  and 
reasonably in what it has done.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6119443