K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about how Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) dealt with payments to a 
company abroad.
background
Mr T says he was in the process of buying a car abroad and called into his BoI branch to 
transfer the money on 22 February 2019. He says he was advised to make  two payments of 
10,000 euros and 7830 Euros over consecutive  days to avoid charges. Mr T says there was 
a computer error in branch and so the first payment  did not go through. He says that he 
made the first payment  on 24 February 2019  which was recorded on his bank statement on 
25 February 2019. And tried to make  the second payment on 26 February 2019 but was told 
he had exceeded  his daily limit for doing  so.Mr T says he then  made a payment in branch  
but then discovered  that the previous transfer had gone through which  meant he had paid 
the company significantly more than he should have due to BoIs mistakes.  He would  like his 
money back, an apology and compensation
BoI says its timeline  is different to Mr Ts. It says its records show the company that was due 
to receive the money was set up on 25 February  2019 and a payment for the first 10,000  
euros was made some minutes later. BoI says it had already scheduled the second payment 
for the following day and that Mr T didnt need  to do anything. It says when  Mr T tried to 
make the second  payment it systems correctly said the limit was exceeded due to the 
scheduled payment.  BoI says Mr T then made  the later payment when the daily limit period 
had passed and authorised the further transaction in branch.
Mr T brought  his complaint to us and our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator  listed 
the payment dates  and amounts and thought it likely  that the second payment had been set 
up in branch and Mr T had made  the mistake by making the additional payments. The 
adjudicator didnt think BoI had made a mistake.
Mr T didnt  accept that view and maintains he made  the online transfer on 24 February 2019 
and tried to make the second payment on the 26th.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr T will be disappointed by my decision  but I am 
pleased to see that he has received his money back from the company.
I appreciate Mr T says he attended  the BoI branch on 22 February 2019 but the payment  
could not go through. I think if that was the case then its likely the company Mr T was trying 
to send the money to would have been set up as a payee before an attempt  was made to 
send the money  to it. But I can see from BoIs  records  that the company was set up as a 
payee at 12.50 on Monday 25 February  2019. So I dont think an attempt to pay a company 
could be made unless it was already set up and I think on balance  that the company was set 
up as a payee on 25 February 2019.  
I can also see from BoIs records and the receipt Mr T has provided that the first transaction 
went through some minutes after the company was registered as a payee. I can see the time 
and date on both documents  is 12.52 Monday 25 February 2019. So whilst I appreciate that 
Mr T says he made the payment himself  on Sunday 24 February  2019  I dont  think on 
Ref: DRN61535532balance that was the case and think it was actually made on the 25 February 2019. I also 
think it likely  that the second payment was scheduled to be made  automatically by BoI the 
following day and that is what  I think happened.
I accept its likely that Mr T was unaware of that as I dont think he would have tried to make 
the second payment if that was the case.  But that doesnt mean that BoI made a mistake  
and I think that is why the payments were  not authorised due to the scheduled payment. Im 
satisfied that Mr T then authorised the following payments  and so I cant fairly hold BoI 
responsible for those  extra  and unnecessary payments. I also think  that the dates Mr T has 
provided do not equate to the dates of BoIs documents  and I make  clear that I have not 
seen any evidence that the dates  on those documents are wrong.
Overall I dont think BoI made a mistake  or acted  unfairly and so I cant  order  it to apologise 
or pay the compensation Mr T would  like. I appreciate that Mr T will have unanswered 
questions about  what took place and I accept that its unclear why BoI didnt tell Mr T that the 
final payment was unnecessary as a simple  check of its records  may have revealed the 
previous payments had gone  through. I know  that isnt the main part of Mr Ts complaint and 
I accept its likely based on what Mr T has told me that he was anxious to make  sure the car 
purchase went through.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6153553