K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains on behalf of his business,  T, that Metro Bank PLC delayed  opening  a client  
account. He also complains that, when he made  a complaint, the bank didnt respond to him. 
He would like compensation for the distress  and inconvenience this caused him. 
background 
In June 2018, Mr O opened a business  account with the bank. Later  that month, he 
requested that the bank also open  a client account for him. 
He says that he had some  difficulty booking an appointment online to set this up so he went  
into the bank branch.  He was asked to wait. After an hour of waiting,  he was told that he 
would need to make an appointment  as the account  couldnt be opened for him there  and 
then. 
Mr O set up an appointment on 16 July 2018.  When he attended  the appointment, he took all 
relevant documents with him. He was told that nothing further was needed  and that the 
account would be opened for him.
He heard nothing  further from the bank  so he says he called them  on 26 September  2018 to 
ask why the account hadnt been  set up. He says that he was told that someone would get 
back to him.
As Mr O hadnt heard  from the bank,  he says that he called again on 2 October 2018 and 
was told, again, that someone  would  get back to him. He says that no one did. 
He says he called again on 8 October 2018  and raised a formal  complaint. 
Mr O says that the bank  sent him a letter on 15 October 2018 acknowledging his complaint. 
He says that they also called him and offered  him £100 that he rejected.  He told them that 
he was seeking  £1,000  compensation. He was told that the bank would look into it and get 
back to him.
Mr O says that he didnt hear back from the bank. 
By 31 October 2018, Mr O had transferred his business account to another bank and also 
opened a client  account with this bank. 
Mr O came to the Financial Ombudsman Service to further his complaint and request £2,000 
compensation. 
The bank told our investigator that they had sent Mr O a letter  setting out their response to 
the complaint  on 23 October 2018. They say that they accepted that they had let Mr O down 
with the service that they had given  him and apologised for this. They also offered him £100. 
Following further inquiries from the investigator  and further representations from Mr O, the 
investigator reached the decision that the bank had given Mr O poor service. She thought  
that, because  of the inconvenience caused to Mr O, £200 compensation was fair. 
Ref: DRN66860942She didnt  agree that the bank hadnt  responded to Mr Os complaint. She found that they 
had sent their final response  letter  on 23 October 2018. Although, Mr O hadnt  received it, 
she couldnt hold the bank  responsible for this. 
Mr O didnt agree with this outcome. He made the following points:
He didnt think that the bank had shown that they had posted  the letter dated 23 
October 2018 to him.
The investigator hadnt properly considered the affect that not having  a client  account 
had on his business. Mr O says that he had to delay  taking on any conveyancing 
work as he wouldve  been unable to complete  without a client account and then he 
wouldve been liable to his clients. 
He spent over 10 hours  trying  to open the account and dealing with the complaint. 
His hourly charge  is £267 so his loss of time amounted to more than £2,000. 
The complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr O wont  be happy with my decision. I think  that compensation of £200 is 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances.  I will explain why. 
I have considered Mr O representations  on whether the bank  sent the letter.  On balance, I 
find that the bank  did address, pre-pay and post the letter. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service is not a court  of law and, as such,  doesnt insist on the strict  proof that might be 
required by the court. As I think that the letter was sent,  I cant  hold the bank responsible  for 
Mr O not getting this letter. 
Regardless of Mr O having received the letter, he still brought the complaint to our service  
within the time limits so he hasnt been  adversely affected by not having seen the letter.  
Furthermore, he was aware  that the bank  had offered him £100 compensation as they 
offered him this amount  when they spoke  to him. .
Mr O says that he was unable to take on conveyancing work without a client account. Whilst 
I appreciate that he couldnt take on the work  without a client  account, I wouldve expected 
him to have  contacted the bank  sooner  to chase up opening the account. In the phone  call 
that he made to them in September  2018, he didnt mention  the client  account. I wouldve 
expected him to have brought the account  up. So, I find that he started  chasing the bank 
about the client account when he contacted  them in October 2018.  Although,  I accept that 
the bank shouldve opened the account by then, I feel Mr O shouldve  been more pro-active. 
I take into account that he says that he was being patient, but as he was running a business, 
I think that he shouldve  contacted the bank sooner so that he could then start taking on 
conveyancing work.  
I appreciate that Mr O feels that he should be compensated in accordance  with the hourly  
rate that he charges for his business.  But, the aim of our service isnt to punish a business. It 
is to reach  a fair and reasonable outcome. We dont take into account hourly charging rates  
in assessing compensation as this could turn out to be unfair for someone  who isnt earning  
very much but has spent  an equal  amount of time on a complaint. Similarly, a court sets, for 
Ref: DRN66860943example, a standard rate for someone who might  be called as a witness. Individual  hourly 
rates are not taken into account.   
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr O hoped for. I think that £200 compensation is 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Metro  Bank  PLC to pay to Mr O, trading as T, £200  
compensation if it hasnt  already done so. I dont require them to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6686094