K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  lent him money 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr R took out four instalment  loans in August 2017.  Mr R says that he was stuck in a cycle 
of repeated borrowing and had to turn to family  members  in order  to keep up with his 
repayments.
Mr R wants Sunny to refund the interest and charges that hes paid and write off any 
outstanding balance. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, 
she thought that it was reasonable of Sunny to agree loans one to three. But the adjudicator 
thought Sunny shouldnt have agreed loan four.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny refund all interest  and charges that Mr R had paid 
on loan four.  And the adjudicator said Sunny should remove  any negative information  about 
loan four from Mr Rs credit file. 
Sunny doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation to uphold  loan four. It says that 
although Mr R had three open  loans  when he applied for loan four, he hadnt missed  any 
repayments. 
Sunny says that it carried out robust checks before agreeing to lend so it doesnt agree that 
it shouldve seen that Mr R wouldnt be able to sustainably repay loan four.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN69401952the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr R. It asked Mr R for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Rs credit file.
loans one to three
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt unreasonable of Sunny to agree these loans based 
on the information it held about  Mr R.
As Mr R hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 
one to three, I dont  think that I need  to say more about them.
loan four
When Mr R took out loan four his three earlier loans were still open. Although Sunny says 
that Mr R had been able to make  his repayments  on time, I think the fact that he was taking 
on new debt before settling his existing debt shouldve alerted  Sunny to the fact that Mr R 
was having problems managing his money.
I take Sunnys  point  that Mr R could have borrowed the money  in one single  loan rather  than 
split it across four different loans.  And that Mr R could have been using the loans for different 
matters. But I still consider the number of loans taken within  a matter of 18 days  was a 
strong indicator  that Mr R was struggling with money and couldnt afford to repay loan four 
sustainably. This is borne  out by the fact that Mr R hasnt repaid any of the loans in full.
Ref: DRN69401953So Im upholding  Mr Rs complaint about  loan four. As Mr R has had the benefit of the 
money lent to him I consider its fair to allow Sunny to apply the refund to any outstanding 
balance on the loans, making  sure that before doing  this it writes off any unpaid  interest and 
charges on loan four.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr R has paid on loan four;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan four;
if it chooses to apply the refund  to any outstanding balances  including the principal 
balance due on loan four before  paying  Mr R the remaining balance (if there is any) **; 
and 
remove the negative  information about loan four from Mr Rs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends to 
apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding balance,  I remind  Sunny of 
its obligation to treat Mr R reasonably and sympathetically if he puts forward  any repayment  
proposals.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019. 
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN6940195