K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited failed to provide a benefit 
(air travel  points) associated with his credit card account. 
background
Mr G has a credit account with American Express. One benefit of that account is that when 
he spends money on his credit card he accumulates air travel points which can then be used  
to purchase flights with a leading  airline.
When he recently tried to purchase  flights for himself and his family, Mr G found that the air 
travel points - and vouchers allowing companions to travel  had not been  transferring into 
the airline account for several  years.
Mr G attempted to resolve  this issue with the airline  and then with American Express  
before he booked tickets  for his planned  trip. However, it wasnt  sorted out in time and Mr G 
had to book and pay for tickets with a different airline.
Mr G complained to American  Express. They said they couldnt identify why the air travel  
points had failed  to transfer into the airline account. But they rectified the problem and 
transferred across Mr Gs previously accumulated points. 
American Express were clear in their final response  to Mr G that because they couldnt 
determine why the error  had occurred, they didnt accept liability.  But they offered to pay him 
£50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought American Express  should pay Mr G £125 for his trouble and upset, rather than 
the £50 theyd offered.
Neither Mr G nor American Express agreed. Both asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. 
American Express say theyve provided  information to show they werent  at fault for what  
happened with Mr Gs air travel points.  Mr G thinks the £125 is not enough  to reflect  his 
trouble and upset.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
American Express told Mr G they couldnt  determine  the cause of the issue with his account. 
They later told us theyd  found a communication  from the airline in 2014 which  showed  
Mr Gs account had been made inactive (and so couldnt receive his air travel  points)  
because the airline didnt  have a UK address  for Mr G.
They say that when they received that communication, their procedural policy suggests they 
would have written  to Mr G to point out the problem  and ask him to contact  the airline. They  
say the passage of time means they cant retrieve a copy of this letter.
Ref: DRN64131132American Express have also pointed out that Mr Gs monthly statements show  the number 
of points Mr G has accrued  and the number transferred  to his account with the airline.  So if 
hed read his statements, he would have identified the issue  much sooner and could have 
raised it with the airline and/or American  Express.
Mr G says he never received a letter from American Express  advising him that his airline  
account had been made  inactive. He also says the explanation is odd given that hes had a 
UK address throughout the relevant time period  and hasnt changed his address details with 
the airline.
He accepts that the points accrued and transferred show on his statements, but says he 
didnt notice them.
Weve seen copies  of some of Mr Gs statements. The information  about his air travel points 
is included, as American Express say, but it is towards the end of fairly long statements (8 or 
9 pages) and it isnt especially prominent.
I dont have any reason  at all to doubt  Mr G when he says he thought his points would be 
available for him to use when he tried to book  the flights in question. American Express 
offered him that benefit as part of his account with them and hes entitled  to think it would be 
delivered.
Clearly, there was an issue with the communication between American Express  and the 
airline which caused the problem. Its difficult to say now with any certainty  who bears the 
responsibility for that, but its clear  its not Mr G. 
American Express say the fault lies with the airline rather  than them. That appears the most  
likely explanation, but even if it were the case,  they failed to deal with Mr Gs enquiries about 
the issue in good time for him to book  his flights with the airline.  
They say they handled things within their own service level agreement (two to five weeks  to 
respond) but whats more significant here as far as Im concerned  is that they had 
information available to them (the 2014  communication from the airline)  which explained  the 
situation. 
So, they could  have provided  an explanation to Mr G - and finally  resolved the matter  
much sooner  than they did. Im not sure this would  have  enabled  Mr G to book the flights  
using the air travel points, but it would  certainly  have saved him the trouble of pursuing a 
complaint  and/or pursuing it for longer than was necessary.
On that basis, I think American Express have  to accept that they are at least  to some  extent 
at fault. And that being the case,  I have to decide what  loss or trouble and upset Mr G has 
been caused.
American Express have now ensured all Mr Gs air travel points and vouchers are available  
for him to use through the airline. He hasnt raised any issues about using them, so I have to 
assume he will gain the full benefit  from the arrangement in due course.
I cant see that Mr G is claiming to have suffered any other financial or material  loss. So, 
American Express have by and large put Mr G back in the position he would have been in 
had the error  not occurred.
Ref: DRN64131133Mr G has spent some considerable  time trying to resolve this issue   and he has suffered 
some frustration when at first he wasnt offered any explanation as to why the problem had 
arisen. 
I can also accept that Mr G had to book flights with an airline he wouldnt have wished to use 
had his air travel points  been available.
Given the level of inconvenience Mr G has experienced,  I agree with our investigator  that 
£50 is insufficient  compensation. 
However, I also agree with him that £125 is enough   and is in line with the kind of awards 
we usually make in these  circumstances. Mr G has suffered some inconvenience  and 
frustration but no serious  or lasting detriment.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
American Express Services Europe Limited  should pay Mr G £125 for his trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6413113