K821x#15complaint
Miss G and Mr R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded or recovered money 
they lost to a scam.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer only to Miss G, as she was the one mainly involved.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.
In September  2017 Miss G made a payment of £3,700 at an HSBC branch from her HSBC 
account she held jointly with Mr R for a car advertised on the online marketplace  Gumtree.  
The car never arrived and Miss G, realising she had been scammed,  contacted  HSBC  to try 
and get her money back. Ultimately  HSBC wasnt able to recover the money and didnt offer 
to reimburse Miss G.
Miss G remained unhappy and referred her complaint about HSBC to us. An investigator 
here recommended that the complaint be upheld. As HSBC didnt agree, the case  has been 
passed to me for a decision.
I sent Miss G, Mr R and HSBC my provisional  decision  in June 2021, explaining why I was 
minded to uphold  the complaint and what HSBC should do to put things right. I said that 
before making  my final decision,  Id consider any more comments  and evidence  so long as I 
received it by 15 July 2021.
Both Miss G and Mr R have told us that they accept my provisional decision.
HSBC has also told us that it has no further comments to make.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of further information and evidence  in response to my 
provisional decision, I have reached  the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons.  I have explained my reasons again below. 
It is common ground that Miss G authorised  the scam payment. She was duped by the 
scammer into instructing  HSBC to make the payment from her joint account  with Mr R for a 
car she would  never receive. The scammer deceived Miss G into thinking  the sale was 
legitimate. I accept that this was an authorised payment even though  Miss G was the victim 
of a scam.  So, although she did not intend  the money to go to a scammer, under  the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, 
Miss G and Mr R are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulator rules  and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Ref: DRN65543702Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.
I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment  where the judge took a different view about  
the Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And 
notwithstanding what the judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have 
a duty to resolve complaints based  on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case,  taking into account  not just the law, but also regulator rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I am mindful  that my fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced  the relevant rules,  codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions,  both to HSBC 
and published  on our website.
I have decided that HSBC did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss G. I say 
this because Miss Gs payment instruction in branch in September  2017 for £3,700 was 
unusual and uncharacteristic  for the account. And I think in a situation like this, HSBC should 
have spoken to Miss G in branch about the payment to check everything was in order,  
before processing  the payment, to protect her from the possibility of financial  harm. 
Miss G says she gave the details  for the payment to the cashier who said there was nothing
suspicious about the payee.  I understand also that HSBC says it is confident its staff 
member would not have  allowed Miss G to proceed  with the payment if they had any 
reasonable grounds for suspicion.  It seems likely, therefore, that there was at least  a brief 
discussion about the payment.
But the fact that some  brief discussion may have taken place in branch isnt sufficient to 
absolve HSBC  of its responsibility  here.  I have therefore thought about what  most  likely 
would have happened if HSBC had spoken   and appropriately so  to Miss G about her 
payment instruction in September 2017 before  it processed it.
Ref: DRN65543703I appreciate HSBC has said it wasnt and isnt required to act as an amateur detective.  To be 
clear, however, Im not suggesting  Miss G should have been subject to an interrogation  
merely, in the circumstances, a basic  level of questioning designed to disturb or unearth  a 
potential fraud or scam and establish  that Miss G was not at risk of financial harm. 
I think HSBC ought  reasonably  to have asked Miss G what the payment was for and for the 
basic surrounding context. I have seen nothing that makes me think Miss G wouldnt have 
responded openly to such  questions.  In which case,  I think  HSBC most likely  would  have 
quickly discovered that Miss G was proposing  to make this payment for a car she had seen  
advertised on Gumtree, that she hadnt seen the vehicle, and that she was at risk of being 
scammed without any real protection  available from the method of payment she was 
proposing to make; and this at a time of increasing  fraud and scams in recent years that 
HSBC would have  been well aware  of. I think,  in other  words,  that the staff members basic  
and reasonable enquiries would probably  have escalated  into significant concerns  and it 
seems likely they would then have asked more  probing questions  and/or given Miss G an 
express warning about fraud and scams (if not actually taking more interventionist steps to 
prevent the payment there and then).
I appreciate HSBC couldnt have known for certain that Miss G was about to be scammed, 
but it could have warned her of the possibility. Some basic context around online 
marketplaces like Gumtree, and the nature of push payments in general and potential scams 
would, in my view, have  made a difference here. So I think HSBC could and should have 
done more in this case. Had it done so, I consider  Miss G and the staff member most  likely 
would have realised  there  were  reasonable grounds for suspecting that something might  be 
amiss and ultimately  not have gone  ahead with the payment, so she would not have lost 
£3,700.
I have considered whether Miss G should  bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence (which  might justify a reduction  in compensation). However,  whilst  I understand 
there is information on Gumtree about  fraud and scams, this would not in itself justify a 
finding of contributory negligence in circumstances where we are satisfied  a customer 
genuinely did not entertain any reasonable grounds for suspicion at the time and was 
therefore not acting carelessly  or turning a blind eye to concerns about risks that were 
reasonably foreseeable to her at the time.
In principle, I can accept that Miss G might have done more with regard to her purchase. But 
this case is not about  whether the vehicle was of satisfactory quality and/or fit for purpose, 
etc; it is about whether  a scammed payment could and should  have been prevented  by a 
bank. Any failing on Miss Gs part was merely part of the background history   it might have 
occasioned the loss indirectly  (insofar as the scam  might possibly have been exposed if 
shed requested a viewing,  depending  on how sophisticated the setup was), but it wasnt, in 
my view, the dominant or effective cause of the loss.
HSBC hasnt persuaded me that Miss G recognised the risk or contributed to her own 
misfortune through  careless acts or omissions  when  making the payment. There may be 
cases where a proportionate reduction in compensation is justified for a customers  
contributory negligence, but I am satisfied  that this is not one of them. In my view, it was the
failure of HSBC that really caused the loss  but for its inaction in the face of unusual or 
uncharacteristic activity,  the loss probably wouldnt have occurred. Any errors  by Miss G 
were effectively superseded by HSBCs errors,  breaking the causal chain, so I am not 
persuaded they played a material role in the loss that actually unfolded. I dont think it can 
Ref: DRN65543704fairly be said that she, the layperson,  was to blame in this scenario  or that compensation 
should be reduced accordingly.
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse 
Miss G and Mr R for the loss they suffered without any reduction together  with interest to 
compensate them for being deprived of the money  they lost.
I understand from Miss G and Mr R that their joint account with HSBC  is still open, albeit 
currently frozen. They have both agreed that any compensation that might be payable be 
paid to this account. I therefore saw no reason, at the time of my provisional decision, to 
direct otherwise. And I note that neither  Miss G and Mr R nor HSBC  have objected or raised 
any further representations in response to my provisional decision on this point, so I am 
satisfied it remains appropriate.  
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to:
pay Miss G and Mr R £3,700 within 28 days of receiving notification  of their 
acceptance of my final decision;  plus
pay Miss G and Mr R interest on that sum at a rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date of loss to the date of refund1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 August  2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
1 If HSBC is legally required to deduct tax from the interest then it should  send Miss G and Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate so they can claim  it back  from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6554370