K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr D bought the policy in 2004 at the same  time as taking out a credit card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint because:
 I think Halifax made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it. 
I say this because  from what we know about Halifaxs  credit  card application form that 
was in use at the time, Mr D wouldve had to complete a box to show  that he wanted 
the cover. I think its unlikely that Halifax wouldve added the PPI to Mr Ds account  if 
he hadnt filled in the form to show that wanted  to take out the policy.  
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr D, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. 
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mr D would have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr D paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr D back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr D.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6712823