K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that she got poor service  from the approved repairer she was referred  to by 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
 
background
Mrs P was directed to garage I by Admiral for repair after her car was damaged  in an 
accident in August 2017. After she got the car back, a local garage doing  a service on it 
noted a crack in the gearbox. Admiral  accepted  it was accident-related. Garage I took two 
months to repair it. Mrs P says when the car was returned to her in January 2018  it was dirty 
and had chipped  paintwork on a door.  Garage I said it had cleaned  the car and hadnt 
damaged the paintwork. Mrs P says its engineer gave her some  paint to put on the door. 
Mrs P was told by a local garage in June 2018  that the cars air conditioning wasnt  working 
because its compressor had been  damaged in an accident. Admiral said Mrs P should take 
the car back  to garage I. It quoted £900 to replace  the part and said Admiral would have to 
approve the work. Mrs P later got a cheque from Admiral for £150  with no explanation.  
Admiral later told Mrs P the £150 was compensation. It thought the gearbox shouldnt have 
needed further repair, and that the repair took too long. It recognised that Mrs P had been  
inconvenienced by that and that shed spent  money calling and travelling to garage I. But it 
didnt agree that the compressor was damaged in the accident.  It said there was nothing to 
show that the car was returned to her in a dirty condition. It said the garage denied  giving 
Mrs P any paint  - and that paint had to be dried on in a special room  heated  like an oven. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mrs Ps complaint.  He thought  it was fair for Admiral to 
rely on the view of an independent assessor, who said the compressor  wasnt damaged  in 
the accident. He didnt  think Mrs P had shown the car was returned in a dirty state. But as 
she had a photo of the paint she said the garage gave her, he thought that was probably the 
case. So he said Admiral  should cover the cost of repairing the doors  paintwork. 
Mrs P said her car shouldnt  have left the garage  with a crack in the gearbox, as it meant the 
car wasnt safe to drive.  She told us shed paid £85 plus VAT for her local garage to check 
the oil leak that led to the crack in the gearbox  being  found. She didnt accept the view the 
investigator took about the compressor.  She said shed get a report  from her local garage,   
but didnt do so as the investigator said Admiral  might not refund the cost of it. 
 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision partly  upholding the complaint as follows:
Admiral paid for the issue with the gearbox to be put right.  It compensated Mrs P for her 
inconvenience, which I think  was fair. But I think it should also refund the £85 plus VAT that 
she had to pay her garage to investigate the leak, as it turned out to be from the cracked  
gearbox. Mrs P wouldnt have had to pay for the inspection had garage I noted  the fault 
when it was carrying out the initial repairs. 
I think its reasonable for Admiral to rely on the view of an independent engineer  that the 
compressor wasnt damaged in the accident. It seems  he thought there  was no impact  
damage to that part of the car. Mrs P hasnt provided any evidence to the contrary.
Ref: DRN69989042Mrs P cant  show that the car was returned to her in a dirty condition. In my opinion,  she 
hasnt provided  evidence to show that garage  I damaged the doors  paintwork, either. We 
asked whether Mrs P had images of the car before it went  into the garage  showing that the 
door wasnt scratched.  Unfortunately she doesnt.  We also asked garage I if it had recorded 
the cars  general  condition when it arrived. It says it didnt - although Mrs P says it did.
Mrs P has provided a photo of a small jar of paint. But I think  that could have come from 
anywhere. I cant see anything to link it to garage  I. The garage says it didnt damage the 
paintwork. Whether  thats the case  or not, I dont think it would have been in the garages 
interests to give Mrs P a jar of paint.  Such  a gesture  might well be misinterpreted.  And if 
Mrs P had used the paint,  I think it could have made matters  worse. If the paint  has to be 
baked on, it seems likely it would  have run had that not happened.  
I dont think its possible to be certain that Mrs P wasnt given the paint by someone at the 
garage. But even if that happened, I dont think providing a small jar of paint would  be 
enough to show  that the garage caused  the damage  to the door.  So from what Ive seen so 
far, I dont think it would be fair to require Admiral to pay for that work. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mrs P said the garage should  
have a record of the cars condition. She said she couldnt show that the door wasnt  chipped 
before it went into the garage.  She also said the engineer had put some paint on the door 
whilst it was at the garage and said if it wasnt  done it would rust. She said she wouldnt 
have got a pot of paint elsewhere and then blamed the garage.  And she said her husband 
and her child were with her at the garage when she got it. 
Admiral queried the £89 charge for investigating  the gearbox.  It said Mrs P had said the 
crack was found during a standard  service. Admiral said had it been told about the 
investigation it would have addressed the issue at the time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Im sure Admiral would have dealt  with the cost of investigating the gearbox had it known 
about it. I dont think  theres  any doubt about  the validity  of the invoice. It was produced by a 
dealership garage  - and the work wasnt part of a normal service. Diagnostic work was done 
because a leak was noted. Mrs P wouldnt  have  needed to have that done  at her garage  had 
Admirals garage dealt with it whilst carrying out the initial repairs. Although the independent 
assessor said there was only a hairline crack I think the garage  should have noted it. And 
Mrs P shouldnt be left out of pocket as a result  of its error.  So I think  it would be fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to refund the cost of the work, plus VAT, to her.
Mrs P didnt say initially that the garage  completed  a checklist of the cars condition, and 
Admiral says the garage has no record of it. Mrs P doesnt have any photos showing the 
door without  the chipped  paintwork that she thinks was caused by the garage.  The garage  
denied causing  the damage  from the outset,  and theres no independent evidence either 
way. So its a matter  of whats more likely to have happened. 
Mrs P cant  show that the garage gave her a pot of paint. In her reply to the provisional 
decision, she said the engineer put some  paint on the door whilst it was in the garage.  
Ref: DRN69989043Mrs P hadnt  said that before, and theres no evidence of it. Although her husband was at the 
garage at the time, Mrs P didnt say he saw it. In any event, hes not an independent 
witness. As the garage denied having  caused  the damage  and Mrs P couldnt prove that it 
did - I cant  see why an engineer would  have given Mrs P any paint. And as I said in my 
provisional view,  even if Mrs P could  show that an engineer did give Mrs P some  paint, that 
wouldnt prove that the damage was caused by the garage.  
Mrs P wanted the door repainting  and thats what normally happens if some of the 
paintwork on a door is damaged. But new paint  needs to be blended in and requires high-
temperature treatment.  Any touching up of chipped paintwork would be obvious. It wouldnt 
solve the issue and is very likely to make  the doors appearance worse.  So I dont think its 
likely that an engineer at an approved garage  would recommend it, let alone do it himself. 
That would only give Mrs P further valid cause to complain about the garage.  
As I dont think Mrs P can show  that the garage caused damage  to the paintwork, I cant  ask 
Admiral to put it right. The independent engineers  report shows the compressor  wasnt 
accident-related, so I dont think Admiral is responsible for that. I think Admiral  has 
compensated Mrs P adequately for the inconvenience caused by having to take the car back 
to garage I for further work. So I think Admiral acted reasonably in trying to deal with the 
aspects of Mrs Ps complaint that it was aware of. It didnt know about the cost of the 
diagnostic checks,  but I think  it should  now refund that cost in order  to put matters  right.  I 
dont think Admiral should pay interest on it, as it wasnt  aware  of the charge until recently.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to refund £85 plus VAT to Mrs P. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Susan Ewins  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6998904