K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Ulster Bank Ltd (Ulster Bank)  mis-sold  him two packaged bank 
accounts. 
Mr M paid a monthly fee for the accounts  and received several potential benefits  in return. 
He thinks that Ulster Bank should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ms complaint. The adjudicator didnt 
think that Ulster Bank mis-sold either packaged bank account to Mr M and didnt recommend  
that it should give him any money back.  
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Ms complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr M and Ulster  Bank  have told us or sent us about the case  and 
Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
Ulster Bank has sent us some information from its records about the accounts Mr M held. 
This information shows that Mr M: 
opened a fee-free account  in March 2000
changed to a packaged  account  called U First  in July 2003;  Mr M paid a fee for this 
account 
changed to another  packaged  account  called U First Gold  in September 2008; Mr M 
paid a higher fee for this account.
This account history  is not in dispute, but Mr M has said that Ulster Bank pressured  him into 
taking  the packaged  accounts,  told him it was mandatory  for him to change  from the fee-free  
account  and didnt  tell him about  the benefits  he could  obtain.  Hes told us that effectively  (he has) 
been  paying  for services  monthly  for a 15 year period  without  being  made  aware  of what the services  
are. Hes also said that on one occasion  he tried to use the travel  insurance  which  he thought  should  
have come  automatically  with the account,  but it was hard to activate.  
Neither Mr M nor Ulster Bank have told us a great deal about how Ulster Bank sold the 
accounts to Mr M. However, on our questionnaire,  Mr M has indicated that it sold the first 
account to him over  the counter and recommended that he should  buy it. 
If Ulster Bank did recommend the accounts  to Mr M, rather  than sell them  on an information 
only  basis,  it would have  had to make  sure that the accounts were  appropriate  for his needs 
and tell him about them fairly and clearly  so could decide if he wanted them. As there  is very 
little other  information  available,  in fairness to Mr M, I have considered  this complaint  on the 
basis that Ulster Bank did recommend both accounts to him. 
Ref: DRN65617242Although Mr M has complained about  similar  things for both accounts, to make sure I have 
reviewed everything,  I have considered  the two occasions separately.  
The U First account 
At the time Ulster Bank sold this account to Mr M, he had held a fee-free  account  for around 
three years. At that time,  fee-free accounts  were also quite widely available in the United 
Kingdom and Ulster  Bank has continued  to offer them.
I havent seen  anything to convince me that Ulster  Bank pressured Mr M to change from his 
fee-free account  to the U First account and to start paying fees. Around 15 years  have 
passed since Ulster Bank sold this account to Mr M and while I accept that he is doing his 
best to remember  what  happened,  I think its unlikely that Ulster Bank told him it was 
mandatory for him to change. I think its more likely that Ulster  Bank  offered the U First 
account to Mr M and he chose to take it. 
As Im satisfied that Ulster Bank didnt mis-lead Mr M into thinking that he had to take the U 
First account,  I think its likely that it told him about at least some of the benefits  of the 
account. After all, Ulster Bank was trying to sell the account to Mr M and it would have 
helped its case to tell him what  he could get in return for his monthly fee. 
At the time in question, the potential  benefits  of the U First account included  banking 
features such as an interest-free overdraft of up to £250 and non-banking features such as 
90-day purchase  protection. I dont know much about the details of Mr Ms financial situation 
or shopping habits  in 2003, but I understand that potentially he had quite a large overdraft at 
around that time, and I think it was reasonable for Ulster Bank to recommend the account to 
him for the benefits  which  came  with it. 
I accept that Ulster Bank may not have done  everything correctly, but I dont think it mis-sold 
the U First account to Mr M.
The U First Gold  account 
 
When Ulster Bank sold this account  to Mr M, it provided a different range of features from 
the U First account. For example, it offered a higher limit for interest-free overdrafts and 
provided worldwide travel  insurance.
As with the U First account, I havent  seen anything  to show me that Ulster  Bank  told Mr M 
that he had to change to this account, rather than keep his U First account (or go back to a 
fee-free account). Again, I think its more likely that Ulster Bank told Mr M about the account, 
which was relatively  new at that time,  and he chose  to buy it. 
Mr M has told us that he travelled, so he may have needed or wanted travel  insurance and 
he may also have found the higher limit for interest-free overdrafts useful. So I think  it was 
reasonable for Ulster  Bank to recommend the account to Mr M. 
Im not sure why Mr M found the travel insurance hard to activate, but Im satisfied that the 
account did offer this feature and I dont think the difficulties that Mr M encountered meant 
that Ulster  Bank had mis-sold him the account. 
Ref: DRN65617243Again, I dont know exactly what Ulster Bank  told Mr M about  the account,  but it must have 
described at least some  of the features to him, otherwise he wouldnt have known about the 
travel insurance. I dont think Ulster Bank  mis-sold the U First Gold account to Mr M. 
So in summary,  from the evidence  I have seen, I dont think that Ulster Bank pressured Mr M 
into buying either packaged  account,  or failed to tell him about the potential benefits he could 
obtain in return  for his fees. I think its more likely that Ulster Bank gave him a choice  about  
these accounts  and a fee-free alternative.  I dont think that Ulster Bank mis-sold either 
account to Mr M.
In correspondence  with us, Ulster Bank  has also said that due to Mr Ms financial 
circumstances, it has already refunded some of the fees Mr M paid for the packaged 
accounts. Its told us that at present  charges are suspended and that Mr M has not paid 
any packaged account fees for the last six years (so since  approximately 2013). It has sent 
us copies of some statements which it says illustrate  this point. 
Mr M has denied  that Ulster  Bank has sent him any refunds. He has told us that its 
categorically incorrect.  As I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about mis-selling, this part 
of the dispute  does  not directly affect this decision and I have not considered it here.  Mr M 
may wish to ask Ulster Bank for more information if hed like to look into this in more detail. 
Mr M has also told us that in 2011  he asked Ulster  Bank to cancel the U First Gold account, 
but it failed to do so. Hes told us that at the time he didnt follow this up, but he hasnt given 
us any further information,  so I havent  considered this issue as part of this decision. Again, 
Mr M is free to raise  this with Ulster Bank  if he so wishes. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint that Ulster Bank 
Ltd mis-sold him two packaged bank accounts.  I am not going  to tell it to give him any 
money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6561724