K820x#14complaint
Miss F makes a number  of complaints about Nationwide Building  Society.
background
Miss F says she bought  an item with her Nationwide account card but she was sent an 
incorrect size. She asked Nationwide to raise  a chargeback but it said she needed to provide  
it with evidence that the item had been  sent back. Miss F says she has a disability and that 
would make it extremely difficult  to return the item and provide that evidence. She says 
Nationwide has failed  to make reasonable adjustments and isnt keeping  to the Equality Act. 
She also says she had problems speaking to Nationwide about this and complains  about  
Nationwides complaints process. Miss F would like reasonable adjustments made as well as 
compensation.
Nationwide says it couldnt raise a chargeback until it received evidence that the items Miss 
F bought had been returned. It says it doesnt  set those rules but accepts it gave Miss F 
misleading information about the chargeback process. Nationwide  has apologised for that 
and paid Miss F £75 compensation.  It says its reviewed the calls between  the parties and 
says it dealt appropriately with them and ended the call when Miss F acted inappropriately 
on a call. Nationwide says it dealt with the complaint within its time limits and processes.
Miss F brought her complaint to us but our investigator thought Nationwide  had dealt fairly  
with it. The investigator  didnt think it was our role to decide if the Equality Act had been 
complied with and thought  Nationwide  wasnt responsible for the chargeback rules. The 
investigator didnt  think  Miss F had suffered any financial  loss as she received a refund  for 
the item she bought. The investigator thought the compensation paid of £75 was reasonable 
for the level of inconvenience she was caused  by the incorrect information.
Miss F doesnt accept  that view and says her disabilities havent  been considered  and that 
shes been discriminated against as she struggles to leave her home.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Miss F will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  what took place.
The chargeback rules are not set by Nationwide  but are set by the account  card provider. So 
I dont think Nationwide  is responsible for those rules and requirements and I think correctly  
told Miss F that to process a chargeback it needed  evidence of the return of the item. I 
appreciate that was extremely difficult for Miss F. But equally Im satisfied Nationwide  was 
following the chargeback rules  and requirements and if Miss F believes that request was 
unreasonable, then I think  she will need  to raise  that issue  with the card provider. In any 
event I can see that Miss F has now received a refund.
I appreciate that Miss F says that Nationwide and or the card provider has not complied with 
the Equality Act. But I think it would be for a court to decide such  matters and in any event 
for the reasons I have  explained Im satisfied Nationwide was following rules  set by the card 
provider.
Ref: DRN68712552There is no question that Nationwide  did give Miss F conflicting  information about the 
chargeback process.  But Im satisfied it corrected the information Miss F was given within a 
relatively short period  of time and that Nationwide paid what I think  is a fair and reasonable 
amount of £75 compensation  for that mistake.  I think  that award takes  into account that Miss 
F didnt suffer any financial loss but did spend  some time on the telephone  to Nationwide.
I have listened  to all of the calls between the parties and I appreciate  how strongly  Miss F 
felt about the difficulties  the chargeback rules would cause her. But Im also satisfied that in 
the circumstances of the relevant call that Nationwide didnt act unfairly or unreasonable  by 
ending that call between  the parties. And that it tried to explain to Miss F that it wasnt  
responsible for the chargeback rules.
Overall Im satisfied Nationwide has dealt fairly with this complaint and has fairly explained 
on a number of occasions that it isnt responsible for the chargeback rules. Im also satisfied 
that in any event Miss F received a refund for the item she bought and in those 
circumstances I dont  need to consider what else Nationwide could have done to have 
resolved the position. Im satisfied Nationwide  dealt with this complaint within  a reasonable 
length of time. And in any event its not our role to tell a business what its complaints process  
and time limits should be as we are not the regulator  of banks and building  societies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6871255