K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs K bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as arranging  a credit agreement  at an 
electrical store.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Mrs K says she didnt know the PPI had been  added to her account,  and that she 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it if it had been offered. Ive noted everything Mrs K has 
said. 
But I note that the credit  agreement Mrs K signed  was completed to show  that she 
wanted the PPI. I accept  its possible  PPI wasnt discussed when Mrs K arranged  her 
credit agreement, but its equally likely  that it was  although I can understand why Mrs 
K may no longer remember this, given the amount of time thats passed since  the 
policy was sold. 
Without anything  else to support what Mrs K has told me, I dont  think it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to say that FICL didnt make her aware  that the PPI was optional. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt  have  to ask about  any other means  Mrs K might  have  had to 
cover her repayments.
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mrs K would have  been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
Ref: DRN62621922my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6262192