K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax will not help her clear her credit  
card debt.
background
Mrs H says she has tried to work  with Halifax to try and find a solution to clearing her credit 
card debt. But she says its response has been  to threaten  to increase interest or default her 
account. She accepts  making a mistake  with a repayment and says Halifax agreed to a three 
month interest free period which was extended  by another three  months. Mrs H says she 
then received conflicting information from Halifax about the debt and has been  told her 
minimum monthly payment will increase to just over £300 which  is causing  her difficulties. 
She would like the debt converted into a loan.
Halifax accepts giving  Mrs H conflicting information  when the interest free period ended  and 
has apologised and paid £150 compensation. It says it will not offer a loan but will work with 
Mrs H to try and find a solution. But it says to avoid further interest  then the account would 
have to be closed  which Mrs H has said she wants to avoid.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Halifax had dealt fairly with it. 
The adjudicator accepted  Halifax  had given Mrs H conflicting information but thought the 
compensation paid was fair and reasonable. The adjudicator  also thought Mrs Hs options  
were limited and that the only way to avoid  the interest being repaid would be for the account  
to be closed which would affect Mrs Hs credit file.
Mrs H has asked that an ombudsman review her complaint  and maintains a loan would be a 
solution as she would  like to repay  her debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mrs H will be disappointed  by my decision.
There is no question here that Halifax did give Mrs H conflicting information  about her 
account when  the second interest free period ended. I have no doubt that caused  Mrs H 
distress and inconvenience in trying  to find out what was Halifaxs  position.  And I also accept 
that Mrs H was caused stress by what took place.  But Im satisfied Halifax has fairly 
apologised for what  took place  and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount  of 
compensation.
I accept that what Mrs H would like is for this debt of over £10,000 to be converted into a 
loan as I can see the monthly  interest  is over £200 on the credit  card account. But whilst Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mrs H that is not something  I can fairly order Halifax to do. Im satisfied 
its for Halifax  to make  such decisions when exercising its commercial judgement and not 
something I can fairly interfere in. Mrs H is of course free to apply for a loan at a different 
business.
I appreciate that Mrs H is making  the monthly minimum repayments and that the debt is 
unlikely to reduce  by doing so. But I think Mrs Hs options are limited as to avoid the interest 
that would  mean the account  be closed  which  would  impact  on Mrs Hs credit file. So I 
Ref: DRN65005452understand the dilemma Mrs H is in and I hope  she approaches Halifax to discuss  her 
limited options.
Overall Im satisfied that Halifax  has acted  fairly  by paying  compensation  for the conflicting  
information. And Im also satisfied that its tried to help Mrs H by allowing  her an interest free 
period. So I dont require it to do anything  further  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6500545