K821x#15complaint
Miss F has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds service following a 
claim on her motor  insurance policy.
background
Miss F was in an accident. Admiral repaired her car and settled the other  drivers claim.  
Miss F was unhappy with a number of aspects  of Admirals service  and the increase in her 
premium at renewal.  She brought her complaint about that to us.
Our adjudicator didn't think  that everything  Admiral  had done was fair. So he said it should:
Recalculate Miss Fs premium based  on the actual amounts it had paid out for the 
claim and reflect the claim costs on internal and external databases.
Pay any refund to Miss F following that recalculation and add simple  interest  to it.
Send  Miss F a letter to confirm the full amount that Admiral  had paid out to settle the 
claim.
Miss F didn't think that went far enough  and Admiral  didn't reply. So the complaint's  been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as our adjudicator recommended.
In bringing this complaint Miss F has made  a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything she and Admiral have said very carefully.  But in this decision I will focus on what I 
see as being the key outstanding points.
fault for the accident
Miss F ran into the back of another drivers car after he braked suddenly. Miss F accepted 
that she would be found partially  to blame  but felt that Admiral should have argued that the 
other driver was also at fault for braking without warning.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Miss Fs policy  allows 
Admiral to settle claims as it sees fit. That means  it doesnt require Miss Fs consent  to 
decide how to settle a claim and it may make  a decision that Miss F doesnt  agree with. But 
Ill look to see that its done so reasonably.
As I understand it all insurers generally consider that its the responsibility of the driver 
behind to leave  enough room to be able to stop without  hitting  the car in front,  even if the car 
in front stops suddenly. Its apparent Miss F believes she only hit the other car because  the 
driver hadn't  anticipated a pedestrian would step out onto a crossing. That might  be the case  
but Im also aware  that the opposite argument is that, as the driver behind, Miss F should 
have left enough space that she wouldn't have hit the car in front, no matter  how suddenly  
he braked. And insurers say the responsibility for an accident in that case  will still be with the 
Ref: DRN64585802driver in the car behind.  That's been Admirals  approach in this case and I think that's 
reasonable.
Also, when considering how to handle claims,  insurers like Admiral  need to consider what 
would be likely to happen if the matter went to court. And, given that its generally accepted  
that its the responsibility of the driver behind not to hit the car in front, Admiral would have 
thought it was unlikely to successfully defend  any court action. So it decided  to pay the 
claim. And I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
costs to settle the claim
Miss F thinks  that given  the accident was at relatively low speed  Admiral paid too much to 
settle it. In particular she doesn't agree with how much it paid for the other drivers hire car 
costs or personal injury  claim.
I've seen that Admiral paid for repairs to both Miss F and the other  drivers car. It also paid 
the other drivers excess and some legal  costs - for which it received receipts  and those 
items came to around £5,000. And those costs  seem reasonable in the circumstances as 
they are in line with expenses  I would expect to see following  an accident of this type.
Miss F was unhappy that Admiral had paid out over £6,000 in hire car costs.  If it didnt,  its 
other option would  have  been to dispute  the costs  in court. But its apparent that Admiral 
didn't think  it was likely it could successfully win such an action. I've seen  that those costs 
were based  on recognised industry  rates for a similar car to the one damaged in the 
accident. And the period  it paid for doesn't seem  excessive  in the circumstances. So I think  it 
was reasonable  that Admiral felt it made more sense to settle the claim rather  than risk 
incurring further  expense if it challenged those in court and lost. And in the circumstances, 
where the other side used recognised industry rates, I think  that decision was reasonable.
Miss F was also unhappy that Admiral settled the other drivers personal injury claim for 
around £1,900.  She doesn't think it likely he would have been hurt in such a low speed 
accident. But Im aware that insurers regularly receive claims following low speed  impacts 
that have resulted in soft tissue injury that wasn't  apparent at the time of the accident. And 
insurers like Admiral have vast experience in attempting to defend such claims. And it will be 
aware that where theres  been a certain level of damage to the cars involved in an accident, 
as was the case here, then its not unusual  for drivers to suffer soft tissue injuries. So it 
appears that Admiral  again decided it was better to settle the claim rather  than to run the risk 
of incurring higher  costs  if the claim went to court. I've also noted that Admiral manged to 
negotiate a lower settlement than the one the other side was initially looking for. And in the 
circumstances I think its actions were  reasonable.
how Admiral recorded  its claim settlement
At the time that Miss Fs premium was due for renewal Admiral hadnt  settled the other 
drivers personal injury  claim. So it estimated what it might settle that claim for and added 
that sum to the amount that it had already  paid out for the claim when working out Miss Fs 
renewal premium. But I've noted  that its estimate for the settlement of the personal injury  
claim was vastly inflated compared  to the amount that it eventually  actually  paid out for it. So 
I don't think it was fair that Admiral  used this higher sum when working  out Miss Fs renewal 
premium.
Ref: DRN64585803In order to put things  right I think that Admiral should add up the costs  that its actually paid 
out for the claim. It should then recalculate Miss Fs premium based on that figure  rather  
than the partly estimated figure it had used previously. If that recalculation results in a lower 
premium(s) then it should  refund her the difference  between that and the amounts  she 
actually paid. It should add simple interest to that refund at a rate of 8% a year, from the 
date(s) Miss F paid her premium(s)  to the date it reimburses her.
Also, where possible, it should reflect the reduced  claim costs  on internal and external 
databases. It should also provide Miss F with a letter to confirm the actual costs of the claim 
that she can give to other  insurers should she wish to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Recalculate Miss Fs renewal premium(s) based on the amounts it actually paid for 
the claim against her policy, rather than the partly  estimated sums  it had used 
previously. If that recalculation results  in a lower premium(s) then it should refund her 
the difference between that and the amounts she actually paid. It should  add simple  
interest to that refund at a rate of 8% a year,  from the date(s)  Miss F paid her 
premium(s) to the date it reimburses  her1.
Reflect the reduced claim costs on internal and external  databases. 
Provide Miss F with a letter to confirm the actual  costs  of the claim that she can give 
to other  insurers should she wish to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss F how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6458580