K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  irresponsibly gave him 
loans he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Mr B 6 loans between  July 2016 and December 2017. 
A summary  of Mr Bs lending is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 07/07/2016 05/08/2016 1 £100.00 £123.20
2 05/08/2016 31/10/2016 3 £200.00 £111.46
3 01/11/2016 03/01/2017 3 £200.00 £113.06
4 03/01/2017 30/06/2017 6 £700.00 £267.86
5 30/06/2017 29/12/2017 6 £400.00 £165.86
6 29/12/2017 outstanding 12 £1000.00 £231.83
 
Mr B says that proportionate checks werent  carried out before the loans were  provided. He 
says if these had taken place Mr Lender would  have realised  he was reliant on short  term 
loans and gambling and that the loans werent affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Mr Bs employment and says based on the information it gathered  
the lending was affordable. Mr Lender says it asked  what  the loans were  for and Mr B gave  
reasons that didnt  include repaying other debts. It offered to recall the outstanding debt and 
write off interest and charges  but Mr B didnt accept that offer.
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that loan 1 to 3 shouldnt have been 
provided. However, at the point of loan 4 Mr Bs borrowing  pattern should  have alerted the 
business that Mr B was having problems managing his money and it shouldnt have given 
him any further loans.  He thought that by the time of loan six, given  the length of time Mr B 
had been borrowing the business should  have realised that Mr B was persistently relying on 
these loans. 
Mr Lender didnt accept  our adjudicators view and said it lacked detail and reasoning.  It said 
that Mr B often repaid his loans  early  and the repayments were a small proportion of his 
declared disposable income.  Mr B did not show any difficulty  repaying  his loans until the final 
loan.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
Ref: DRN69887912complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans  - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loans one to three should 
not have been provided.  I have looked  at the information gathered,  including income  and 
expenditure information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender 
should not have provided these loans to Mr B.
Looking at Mr Bs borrowing pattern I can see that he asked to take out loan 4 on the same  
day that loan 3 was repaid. He asked  for an increased amount over a longer period. This 
would suggest  that he was having problems managing his money and couldnt afford  to pay 
back what he had borrowed without borrowing again. Although  the loan looked easily 
Ref: DRN69887913affordable on the figures Mr B gave,  it was clear that this was not the case. I think that Mr 
Lender should not have  continued to lend to Mr B without a more thorough check of his 
circumstances. I dont  think  asking  Mr B about the purpose of the loans was enough.  I think  
at this point Mr Lender should  have taken steps to verify what Mr B was saying about  his 
financial circumstances as they appeared at odds with his borrowing pattern. If Mr Lender 
had carried out more robust checking  of Mr Bs circumstances it would  have seen that Mr B 
wasnt responsibly managing his money,  had other payday loans and was gambling  so 
further lending  was unsustainable.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Bs lending with Mr Lender to see if there was a point 
at which  Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender  shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend 
more money to Mr B.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I agree with the conclusions  of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan six. I say this because:
When Mr B took out loan six, hed been borrowing continually  and wasnt making any 
inroads into the amount that he owed and the amounts  were  steadily  increasing.
Loan six was taken out on the day loan five was repaid. It was for £1000 and repayable 
over 12 monthly instalments. This was the largest loan to date and Mr B had been  
borrowing without a break since July 2016.  
So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about  loans 4 to 6.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding  debts it should buy these back  before doing what  I 
have outlined below.  If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the following:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr B having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and 
move to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr B. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Mr Lender  should  try to agree  an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr B.
Ref: DRN69887914E.Remove all adverse entries  from Mr Bs credit file for loans 4 and 5. The number of 
loans taken from the point of loan 6 means  any information  recorded about this loan 
is adverse. So all entries about  loan 6 should  be removed from Mr Bs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should  put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6988791