K821x#15complaint
Mr P as a director of B (a limited company) complains that Barclays  Bank UK Plc (Barclays) 
wont refund  a payment he made  after falling  victim to a scam.
background
In November 2018 Mr P received a call from one of Bs clients,  saying theyd made  a 
payment into Bs account in error. Mr P checked  Bs account and saw the credit for £4,923.  
Using his online banking Mr P set up a new payee from Bs account  and returned the funds  
 using account information he was given by the client. Later the same day a further credit 
was received to Bs account  for the same amount of £4,923.
It turned out that Mr P hadnt received a call from a client, he had been  contacted  by a 
scammer. The funds B received came  from another fraud victim at a separate  bank (Bank A) 
as part of a larger scam.  The account information  that Mr P was given for sending  on the 
funds were for a third separate account with Bank  C.
Barclays received an indemnity from Bank  A asking them to return the funds as their 
customer had been a victim of fraud.  Barclays debited Bs account for £9,846  being  the 
value of both credits B received  - and returned  the funds to Bank  A. This meant  that B ended  
up out of pocket by £4,923.
Barclays contacted  Bank  C to try and recover the payment Mr P had made but was only able 
to recover £94.39, as the balance of the funds had already been removed from the account.
What Mr P has told us
He had no reason  to believe  that the call wasnt from a client
B had received payments  from the client for services rendered previously, but had 
never made a payment to them   so didnt already hold their account information
The caller told him they had accidentally selected his details from their list of payees 
while making a payment   which didnt seem suspicious to Mr P.
The funds were  showing in Bs account,  so he had no reason to doubt  what  he was 
told
What Barclays has said
They contacted  the beneficiary bank (where Mr P sent the funds) in good time, but 
only £94.39 was recoverable
As Mr P had willingly  made the payment, they couldnt refund him
But they accepted that Mr P had been  a victim of fraud
Mr P wasnt  happy with Barclays response, so he brought a complaint to our service  on 
behalf of B.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. They  felt the payment wasnt  
sufficiently unusual or out of character whereby it shouldve flagged with Barclays.  Therefore 
they didnt feel Barclays missed an opportunity to prevent the payment from being  made.  
And they were satisfied  that Barclays had done what it could  to try and recover Bs funds.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion,  so the case was passed to me to review.
Ref: DRN67190542Having reviewed the complaint, I wasnt satisfied that Barclays  had acted reasonably in 
debiting the funds from Bs account  and returning  them to Bank  A. As I was reaching a 
different outcome than the investigator and for different reasons, I put this to Barclays  along 
with my reasoning and asked for their response.
Barclays replied saying  they disagreed with me for the following reasons:
Under the terms and conditions  of Bs account  they were  entitled to debit Bs account  
if a mistake had been made. They felt the senders  intention  was not to send the 
funds to Bs account, therefore the transfer  into Bs account should  be considered a 
mistake.
Under Regulation 90 of the Payment Service Regulations 2017  (PSRs), they 
considered it fair to return the money to the original sender
They had an obligation to make reasonable efforts to assist  the payer in recovering 
their funds  in line with the indemnity  they received from Bank A
Also, under  Claytons Rule, theyre required to return  the funds
I considered the points  that Barclays raised and explained that they didnt change  my initial 
thoughts that theyd  acted  unfairly. As Barclays still disagreed, Ive reconsidered the case 
and the points theyve raised in order to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes taking into account  law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good industry practice at the 
time.
Its not in dispute  that B was a victim of fraud,  or that the funds  paid into Bs account came  
from another victim of fraud.  But having reviewed everything Im not persuaded that Barclays 
acted fairly  in debiting  Bs account  in order to send the funds to Bank A, and Ill explain why.
The relevant  considerations  to this case
A bank  is expected to follow their customers instructions and make  payments as requested 
in line with the mandate. The banks obligation  to make the payment only occurs if the 
payment instruction complies with the mandate, which is usually set out in the terms and 
conditions of the account.
This is overlaid by a number of regulatory  and legal obligations that banks must follow. And 
there are situations in which  a bank cannot  or should not follow  the mandate.  An example of 
this is where the bank  is in doubt  as to whether it was the genuine customer  giving  the 
instruction.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) say that the payer gives  his or her consent 
to the execution of a payment transaction by employing the form and procedure agreed  
between them and the bank (which is usually  set out in the terms and conditions). The payer  
is the one who has to give consent, this cant be done by a third party.  If the payer  doesnt  
give consent, the transaction will be considered unauthorised.
Ref: DRN67190543Did the terms and conditions of Bs account allow Barclays to debit the funds?
Barclays has relied on a clause in the terms and conditions of Bs account,  which  they say 
allowed them to debit  Bs account.
Theyve referred specifically to term 8.24 which says
what happens if money is paid into your account by mistake
Rarely a payment  could  go into someone elses account by mistake.  If this happens to you, 
we can:
Take the payment  out of your account
Put a hold on the money so you cant spend  it
We dont have to tell you before we take the payment back  
Barclays have explained they feel the sender  of the funds was misguided when they made 
the payment to Bs account.
But having  considered the circumstances of this specific  case, Im not persuaded that the 
payment to Bs account  should be considered  a mistake. 
Its clear from the call Mr P received from the fraudsters and the story  they provided in order 
to convince him to send the funds  onto another account, that the credit to Bs account was 
deliberate. Albeit that it was made by a fraudster  and was part of a larger sophisticated 
scam. An example  of a mistaken  payment  may be where a customer at the sending bank 
enters the wrong  account number in making  a payment  which is very different to what  
happened in this case. Im satisfied the term about  mistake only covers  payments made  in 
error, not as in this case as a result  of a fraud or scam.
So, I dont agree with Barclays  interpretation or application of this term as giving them the 
authority to debit Bs account. And I havent  seen any other terms in the terms and 
conditions of the account that do so either. Therefore, I dont think  Barclays had the authority 
to debit Bs account  and didnt act fairly and reasonably in doing so. 
Did the indemnity obligate Barclays to return the funds?
Barclays has also insisted that they had an obligation to send the funds back to Bank A after 
being issued with an indemnity. But I dont agree that is the case. 
An indemnity  is a promise between two banks,  which protects  the receiving bank if they 
choose to send the money back.  In this case its not in dispute that B wasnt  complicit in the 
fraud or scam, and was acting in good faith when they made payment on to Bank C. The 
indemnity doesnt  obligate  Barclays to return the refunds, and in this case where their 
consumer was clearly a victim of fraud  it doesnt feel reasonable for them  to have sent the 
funds back to Bank A. Also, the indemnity doesnt  override the starting principle  that 
Barclays didnt have  the right to debit Bs account for the funds.
Ref: DRN67190544How does regulation  90 of the PSRs  2017 affect  this?
Barclays also raised a point saying under regulation 90 they were expected to make  
reasonable efforts to recover the funds for Bank  As customer. 
Regulation 90 refers  to where the unique  identifier  provided by the payment service  user is 
incorrect. The payment  service provider must make reasonable efforts  to recover the 
funds and the payees payment service provider  must co-operate with the payers payment 
service provider in its efforts to recover the funds. .
I have taken this into consideration  in reaching my answer, but this particular regulation  
relates to incorrect unique identifiers and not a scam  report   which is what happened in this 
situation. And as Ive explained previously, Im not persuaded that the payment was made to 
Bs account as a result of a mistake,  or even due to an incorrect unique  identifier as set out 
in the regulation. But regardless  this regulation  doesnt address or negate  the fact that I dont 
think Barclays had the mandate to take the funds out of Bs account in the first place. 
Does Claytons Rule apply?
Barclays further referenced Claytons Rule, but I dont agree that this affects Bs complaint. 
This rule relates to the order in which  credits are paid into an account  and the subsequent 
order in which the funds are then allocated/drawn  out. In this case I cant  see a basis  for 
Claytons Rule to be engaged as Barclays hasnt  established to my satisfaction that B acted 
fraudulently or that they were entitled to take the funds  out of Bs account under the terms 
and conditions of the account  in the first place. Therefore, I dont  consider that Barclays  was 
entitled to return  the funds  to Bank  A and Claytons Rule doesnt  affect  that.
Ultimately, I dont think Barclays had the mandate to take the funds out of Bs account  and 
havent acted  fairly  and reasonably in doing  so  therefore they should put B back  in the 
position they wouldve been  in by refunding them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK Plc.
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Refund B the £4,923   less the £94.39 already recovered and paid to them
Pay interest at 8% simple from the date the funds  were taken from Bs account to the 
date of refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P on behalf  of 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 16 July 2021.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6719054