K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2009 to 
cover a hire purchase agreement. Mr D and Ms E say First Response  Finance Ltd mis-sold 
them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Ms Es case.
The PPI covered Mr D only so I have mainly  considered his circumstances at the time it was 
sold.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why.
First Response had to make Mr D and Ms E aware the PPI was optional  and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their hire purchase agreement. Mr D and Ms E took their hire 
purchase agreement  alongside a car purchase. In order to get finance  for the purchase,  
Mr D spoke with First Response over the phone. Ive been able to listen to a call recording of 
the conversation  between  Mr D and the First Response advisor. And Im satisfied that the 
advisor explains that Ms D had a choice about  purchasing the PPI. The advisor gave 
Mr D a quote for the finance with PPI and without PPI and Mr D decided to take the policy.
The credit agreement that Mr D and Ms E agreed  to also refers to the PPI as Optional 
Payment Protection  Insurance.  Mr D and Ms E have said there is a signed copy  that hasnt 
had PPI selected. But I can see there  is also a signed copy  or the agreement  with the option 
to take PPI selected. Taking all of the evidence into consideration, Im satisfied that First 
Response gave Mr D and Ms E a choice about  purchasing PPI and they agreed to take it 
out.
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr D so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr D has told us he would have been entitled to generous sick pay from his employer at 
the time he took the policy, and would  have received a redundancy payment. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Ds sick pay, and for longer than he would have 
received full pay. It would  also have covered Mr D in circumstances  that his redundancy 
cover wouldnt  have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ds circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information First Response gave Mr D and Ms E about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But as I think they chose to take it out - it looks  like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr D and Ms E have said - but these points dont change my 
decision. 
Ref: DRN64057252Ive also thought about the commission Mr D and Ms E paid on the PPI  and whether 
First Response treated them unfairly.  
First Response has told us that the commission for Mr D and Ms Es PPI was less than half 
of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked  at how First Response has been working 
this out and based on what  weve seen  it looks like its right  Mr D and Ms Es commission  
was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats  the case, I dont think  it needed to tell them 
about the commission  so I dont think First Response treated them  unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay Mr D and Ms E back any of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6405725