K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about advice she received from Ellerton Knight (Ellerton)  in 1990 to 
transfer her occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits to a personal  pension plan. 
Mrs H says she was told that the personal pension plan benefits  at retirement were 
guaranteed to at least match the foregone OPS benefits. However, she has recently learnt 
this is not the case and so has been  financially disadvantaged.
background
Mrs H transferred her OPS benefits  to a personal  pension plan in 1990.  Mrs H did so on the 
advice of Ellerton.  Subsequently, in 1999, Mrs H was invited to have that advice reviewed 
under the then industry wide Pension Review. Mrs H completed  a questionnaire and the 
advice was subsequently reviewed by Ellerton.
Mrs H has complained to Ellerton that its advice was misleading and that it had told her the 
plan benefits would  match those of the OPS which is not the case.
In response to complaint,  EK said it had carried out a review  of Mrs H pension plan. It 
said this was carried out in line with the guidelines that were issued by the regulator.
It set out the conclusion of their review in their letter to Mrs H dated 24 May 2002.  
The letter said:
In accordance with regulatory guidelines first announced in October  1994, we have carried  
out a review of the sale of your personal  pension plan. We have found that the advice we 
gave you was compliant  with the Financial Services Act 1986. We do not therefore propose  
to review your further unless you inform us of a concern which you would like examined.
It therefore rejected  Mrs Hs complaint. It also raised a time bar objection . 
Unhappy with this response,  Mrs H referred her complaint  to this service. Our adjudicator  
concluded that we could  consider the complaint. However, the adjudicator said that as the 
review of Mrs Hs plan had been  carried out in accordance with the regulators requirements 
under the Pension Review, the complaint could not be upheld. 
He added that he had not seen evidence to persuade him that Mrs H was told by Ellerton 
that her personal pension  plan would be guaranteed to at least match  the OPS benefits.
Mrs H did not agree. She reiterated that was given such a guarantee and referred  to 
documents she had sent this service in support of that assertion.
As agreement was not reached, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN62233652If the evidence  is incomplete or not available,  as in this case, I base  all or part of my decision  
on the balance  of probability.  In other  words  what I consider is most likely  to have happened 
in all the circumstances.
I have noted the exchanges between the parties  in respect of our jurisdiction to consider  this 
complaint. In particular,  I have noted  that Ellerton says that as it reviewed  Mrs Hs transfer 
advice under the Pension review and concluded its advice had been suitable (and informed 
Mrs H of this in 1992) her complaint  should  be time barred.
I have also noted  our investigators response  that this complaint should not be time barred 
as Mrs H had no reason to doubt Ellertons findings  and so in 1992 would not have been 
reasonably aware,  of cause to complain. 
I note neither party drew  any conclusions  from the annual statements Mrs H has 
presumably received  from her plan provider over the years  her plan has been  in force and if 
these might have given Mrs H cause to complain  sooner than she did.
 
However, as Ellerton subsequently dropped its time bar objection,  I do not intend 
commenting further on the matter  of jurisdiction except to say that I am satisfied Mrs Hs plan 
was reviewed in line with the regulators guidance. But my decision here does not rely alone 
on that judgement.
In responding  on 12 September 2019 to our investigators assessment, Mrs H said:
..a key point of my complaint  is that I was advised  the transfer  carried  a guarantee  
that, regardless  of the performance  of the stock market over time, I would receive,  
under the guarantee,  the minimum  benefit   to which I would have been entitled  under 
my pension  scheme .
I am surprised  by Mrs Hs assertion.  I say this because Mrs H completed  a questionnaire 
in April 1999 in response to an invitation  to have her pension  transfer  reviewed. This was 
part of the then industry wide Pension Review.
The opening  question  on the questionnaire  was:
Did you understand that what youd get from your personal pension could be less than what  
youd get from the employers  pension  scheme  you left?
Mrs H answered  yes to this question .
I cannot reasonably  conclude  from this anything other than Mrs H understood at the outset 
that the benefits of her personal  pension plan might be less than those of the scheme she 
transferred from.
Notwithstanding this apparent recognition by Mrs H in 1999 that her plan may produce lower 
benefits than her OPS,  I have considered  Mrs Hs point that the Pension  Review  would not 
have  included her concern that she was told her plan benefits were guaranteed  to at least 
match her OPS benefits.  Mrs H says this concern has only recently  come  to light following  
her attendance at a pension seminar in 2018.
In a submission to this service  of 10 October 2019, responding to our investigators 
conclusion that Mrs H had not been  given such a guarantee,  Mrs H said:
Ref: DRN62233653I note you say you have seen  nothing in EK's file regarding  the guarantee.  Can I refer 
to the documents  I sent with my original letter. You will see on forms  BP2 and 3 from  
(xxxxxxx)  Director  of Finance,   copies  of which  should  be with EK's file if it is complete,  
to the policy  having to provide as a minimum  the GMP benefits  to which the former  
employee  is entitled.
I was sold the policy on the basis this was the minimum  under my employer's  scheme, 
not, as it proved to be, under the state  scheme .
The documents to which  Mrs H refers are from her former employer to her personal  pension 
plan provider confirming  amongst other things, the amount to be transferred from that 
employers OPS to Mrs Hs personal  plan provider.
I have considered these  documents. Mrs H is referring to a statement which  says:
 A Policy  must  provide  as a minimum the GMP  benefits to which the former employee is
entitled   and the insurance company  must revalue  the GMP at a rate fixed  by the DHSS.
I understand why Mrs Hs interpreted this to mean  her personal pension  plan was 
guaranteed to match the benefits  of her OPS although there is no explicit  reference to 
suggest such a link was intended. 
Mrs H has confirmed that it is this statement that her complaint relies  on. It is the only 
documented evidence that Mrs H referenced.
However, that statement was not made  by Ellerton. It came from the administrator of her 
former OPS. If Mrs H feels  this statement misled her into transferring away from the OPS 
then that is a matter  to be taken up with the administrator of her former  OPS.
I have not seen documented evidence that Ellerton endorsed its meaning as interpreted by 
Mrs H or was even aware of Mrs Hs interpretation  of it. I think  that if this was Mrs Hs 
understanding of the plan and had she told Ellerton  of this, it would more likely than not have 
corrected her misunderstanding. 
It would not be fair or reasonable to hold Ellerton to account for Mrs Hs interpretation of a 
statement made not by it but by a third party or to uphold this complaint only on the basis of 
an unsubstantiated assertion.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs H. But taking everything  into account, including her response to 
the 1999 questionnaire, I do not have  a fair and reasonable  basis to uphold her complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.                                    .   
Terry Connor
Ref: DRN62233654ombudsman
Ref: DRN6223365