K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains about the level of service provided by Call Assist Ltd under her roadside 
assistance insurance policy. 
background
Ms Ds car broke down on a motorway in the evening.  Ms D called Call Assist  but it took 
several hours for it to arrange for Ms D to be towed home. Ms D said she wasnt  told that 
she would  have to pay mileage charges for this. Call Assist offered her £50 compensation 
for the level of service  provided but it is pursuing  Ms D for the mileage charges.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought Call 
Assist had caused  delays  in the recovery by two or three  hours. In this time, Ms D was 
waiting on a busy motorway with a child. Ms D had to call Call Assist  for updates.  So the 
adjudicator thought Call Assist should pay her £125 in total compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.  He thought  Call Assist could have reminded  Ms D that her policy only covered 
recovery for 10 miles. But he thought this was what the policy provided. And so he thought 
Call Assist was entitled to charge the additional mileage charge. 
Ms D replied  that she wanted the additional  mileage charge waived in view of the poor 
recovery service  she received and because she wasnt told about  it when  she called for 
recovery.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D said she was first told that she would  be recovered within 45 minutes. But it took over 
four hours for someone to attend.  She said she was told that she had been forgotten.  Then  
her return  journey had to be made  in two stages. 
Call Assist agreed that there had been delays in the recovery, caused by human error  and 
miscommunication. It offered Ms D £50 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. 
But I agree  with the adjudicator that this doesnt  go far enough in the circumstances. 
This is because Ms D would have  been  further delayed  except  that she called Call Assist for 
updates. I cant  see that Call Assist kept her informed about the recovery in the initial period. 
I think this and the avoidable  delay  in the recovery of two hours  warrants further 
compensation. The adjudicator recommended £125 in total. I think  thats  fair and reasonable 
as its what Id require  in similar circumstances.   
Ms D was concerned that her recovery was in two stages. But I can see that she was first 
recovered from the motorway to services  from where she was later towed home. I think this 
was fair and reasonable as it ensured Ms Ds safety  whilst the second  stage of the recovery  
was arranged. I can see that she only had to wait a short time at the services.  
Ref: DRN62884002When Ms D first called Call Assist  for help, she asked if she would be towed home.  It told 
her she would, but made no mention  of the charge for additional mileage. I can see that the 
policy provides recovery  for up to 10 miles.  This is explained in the exclusions at the start of 
the policy document and then several times  in the policy section on Recovery. 
I think it would have  been good customer service  for Call Assist to have  told Ms D about the 
additional mileage  charge  at the time. But I think this is clearly  set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. And I dont think Call Assist  misled  Ms D by telling her that there would be no 
charge for the additional mileage. So I cant say its wrong for Call Assist  to apply the charge.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Call Assist Ltd to pay Ms D a 
further £75 (£125 in total)  for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6288400