K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold him a credit  card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr F applied  for the card and PPI in November 1995 (with the account going live in January 
1996) during  a meeting in a branch of Barclays.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr F says he didnt  make the decision about  adding the PPI, Barclays  made  it for him. Ive 
seen a copy of Mr Fs application  form. There is a separate section for PPI and there were 
Yes and No boxes  that could be ticked to either accept or decline the policy.  These options 
have equal prominence and neither had been  pre-selected. I think Mrs R would have 
understood from the wording and layout of the page  that the PPI was optional. Mr Fs form 
has a tick in the Yes  box to accept the PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr Fs recollection of the 
sale has faded. Looking  at the available  evidence, it seems to me that he decided to take out 
the policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Barclays say they advised  Mr F to take out the policy, therefore  they needed to ensure that it 
met his needs. And from what Ive seen of Mr Fs circumstances at the time, the policy  was 
suitable for him.
Mr F says he would have received at least six months sick pay from his job. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer  than he would have received 
full pay for. Mr F says he would  have  had some savings at the time (although  he cant 
remember how much). But having the policy would have allowed him to retain his savings or 
use them  to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr F has mentioned some sporting injuries  that hed had prior to taking out the policy. Hes 
says that the worst one was a dislocated shoulder  that needed treatment to put right.  But 
these were one-off  injuries and Mr F hasnt  provided  any evidence that they affected him on 
an on-going basis.  So I dont think they would  have been considered as pre-existing medical 
conditions for the purposes of the policy.
Mr F has said that he became self-employed  two or three  years  after taking out the policy. 
He says that Barclays should  have  known that people of his profession tend to become self-
employed. Therefore,  as PPI isnt suitable  for self-employed  people,  Barclays shouldnt  have  
Ref: DRN62470752sold him the policy. Firstly, I dont consider it would be reasonable to expect Barclays  to 
predict that someone  is going to become self-employed some years in the future.  And 
secondly, having looked at the terms of this particular  policy,  it was no more difficult for a 
self-employed person to make a claim for unemployment  than an employed person. So it is 
not the case that the PPI was not suitable for self-employed people.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide  as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Mr 
F wasnt  affected by any of those  things. As I think that he had an interest in the policy  and 
decided to buy it, I dont  think  that further information would have caused him to change his 
mind.
This means  that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But 
Barclays does have  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because:  
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr F about  that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr F, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has offered  to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank Plc does not have  to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr F.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr F any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should make arrangements to do this now if 
it has not already  done so. I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6247075