K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Cova Life Limited  (Cova) didnt pay him the full amount for a 
Permanent Total Disability (PTD) claim following an accident. 
background
The background to this decision  is set out in my provisional decision (a copy of which  is 
attached below).  But Ill summarise  each partys position here.  
Mr B had an accident in 2005 but didnt  make a claim  until 2015 as he had forgotten  about  
the policy. Cova  paid Mr B £18,000  as a gesture of goodwill for 30% disablement  but Mr B 
felt it should have paid £60,000 - the full benefit  amount  available,  as he hadnt worked since 
his accident.
Our investigator didnt  think Cova  had done anything wrong because it had made a 
decision based on what would have happened  in 2006, had Mr B made  a claim at that time. I 
also didnt think Cova  had done anything wrong. Cova provided new expert  medical 
evidence to show that Mr Bs fall in 2006 wasnt the sole factor  in his PTD  and so I thought  
the payment made by Cova was fair in the circumstances.  
Neither side has responded  to my provisional findings and so there  arent any new 
arguments for me to consider.
And so I will now make  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. 
My reasons  for doing so have already been explained as part of my provisional findings. 
Neither party has provided any further  comments for me to consider.  I therefore see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN62429442Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Cova Life Limited  (Cova) didnt pay him the full amount for a 
Permanent Total Disability (PTD) claim following an accident. 
background
Mr B held a personal  accident insurance policy underwritten by Sterling Insurance  Company  
Limited which was later taken over by Cova Life Limited. He had an accident  in May 2005  
but had forgotten that he had a policy with Cova. 
He contacted Cova in 2015 to make  a claim for PTD as a result  of the accident in 2005. As 
a gesture of goodwill,  Cova  paid Mr B £18,000 on the basis of 30% disablement. Cova 
referred to a doctors  note from 2006  which said that Mr B was still able to work.  The policy 
provided £60,000 for full payment under this benefit.  So 30% was £18,000.
Our investigator didnt  think Cova  had done anything wrong as it had assessed the medical 
evidence from 2006 which was a year after the accident. It therefore made the decision  
based on what would have happened  in 2006, if Mr B had made  his claim at the time. 
Mr B disagreed and says that he was fully incapacitated from the date of the accident. He 
says he has never seen the doctors  note before and doesnt  agree with it.
And so the case has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Bs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Under the Permanent Total  Disability  section  of the policy, it says:
Assessment of your eligibility for the permanent total disability benefit will be delayed 
for 12 months from the date your claim is received by us so that an independent  
doctor of our choice  can assess  your claim.  However if it is shown  by medical 
evidence that the disability is total and permanent, then we may at our discretion pay 
a benefit before the end of the 12 months.
The policy defines  permanent total disability as follows:
Permanent total disability means  total and permanent  disability which  medical 
evidence confirms will last for the rest of your life and which permanently stops you 
from doing any paid job for remuneration or profit.
The policy goes on to say:
If the affects (sic) of an accident on you are made worse because  you already had a 
sickness, disease, naturally occurring condition  or injury then we will ask a doctor to 
assess the effects that your sickness, disease, naturally occurring condition or injury  
Ref: DRN62429443has on your bodily injury and we will reduce your benefit by an amount decided  by 
the doctor to take this into account.
Under the what to do if you wish to claim section, the policy says:
If you wish to make  a claim under this policy, please ask for a claim formThe claim 
form must  be filled in and sent to us at the above  address.  All claims must be 
submitted within  three calendar months of the date of the accident  or as soon as 
possible.
In this case, Mr B notified Cova of his claim more than 10 years after the accident. Covas 
policy terms say it will assess any claim for PTD 12 months from the date the claim is 
received. Cova looked at the available medical  evidence and relied on a doctors note 
which confirmed that Mr B was able to work.  But Mr B says he wasnt aware  of this note. 
Cova also considered a medical report from 2008 which  another  insurer  relied on to pay a 
similar claim - this said Mr Bs injury  at the time amounted  to 30% of total disablement  and 
so Cova paid an amount  equivalent  to 30% of the full benefit available.
As Cova  werent  notified of the claim earlier, it says this has prejudiced its ability to carry 
out an accurate  assessment. And I agree that this is the case due to the passage  of time. 
But Cova has now obtained  a further  medical report from an independent expert  who 
concludes that Covas offer of 30% was generous. He refers to Mr Bs thin bones and the 
increased risk of fracture. He has also detailed Mr Bs medical  history  and issues  with his 
spine and osteopenia for which Mr B has been prescribed bone  strengthening medication. 
I appreciate Mr B disagrees  with the note from 2006 which  said he was able to work. But this 
is no longer relevant due to the medical  report that Cova  has recently obtained. 
Having considered the information on file and the medical experts  opinion,  I am persuaded 
that the fall in 2005 wasnt the sole factor in Mr Bs PTD. There  were  several other  factors 
and years of medical  history which contributed  to his inability to work following his fall. And 
as the policy  allows Cova to make an adjustment  and reduce the benefit  by the amount 
decided by the doctor, I am persuaded that the 30% paid to Mr B was fair taking into account 
all the circumstances.  
I therefore dont  think Cova needs to do anything more here. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN6242944