K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about advice he was given by Quilter Wealth  Limited to start a personal  pension 
plan rather than make additional  voluntary contributions (AVCs) to his occupational scheme. 
The advice was given  by a firm which is an appointed representative of Quilter, but Ill just 
refer to Quilter in this decision. 
background
In November 2012 aged 45 Mr S sought  advice from a Quilter independent financial advisor  
(IFA) about how to meet a future  financial obligation. As part of his divorce  settlement the 
family home was transferred into Mr Ss sole name,  but half its value (£220,000) was to be 
held in trust for his two children, with each  receiving £110,000 at age 30 (in 2027 for the 
elder son, the other one a year later). So under the terms of the trust declaration Mr S 
needed a tax efficient way to be sure he could raise  £220,000 in 15 years,  when hed be 62. 
The advisor completed a fact find of Mr Ss personal circumstances, including his financial 
needs and objectives. Mr S was making  monthly contributions of 8.5% of salary (about £460)  
to his occupational pension scheme (OPS), with his employer adding 5.1%. The advisors 
analysis was that even if Mr S was able to take his OPS benefits at 62 rather than normal 
retirement age of 65, the maximum amount of tax-free cash wouldnt be sufficient to meet  
the obligation even to one son.
Mr Ss disposable monthly  income was to increase by £1,200 when his mortgage was paid 
off.  Rather than saving  into an ISA as Mr S had assumed, the Quilter advisor recommended 
he pay £1,250  per month (gross) into a personal pension plan with provider S, to benefit 
from tax relief on his contributions. As a higher  rate tax payer  Mr Ss savings would grow 
more quickly to provide  the necessary funds for his children, and any surplus would enhance  
his income in retirement. The suitability report dated  28 December 2012 discounted making 
AVCs to his occupational scheme as Mr Ss employer wouldnt match those contributions.  
And a personal pension  would enable Mr S to invest in a managed fund to achieve  better  
returns in line with his attitude to risk (ATR), which had been assessed as dynamic. The 
advisor later provided a separate suitability letter dated 9 January 2013  about also 
contributing to an ISA, which is not part of this complaint.  Mr S accepted the advice and 
started contributions  to the pension plan with S. He had annual reviews with the same  
advisor, and his ATR remained dynamic until the 2018 review when the advisors records 
show Mr S chose to reduce it to moderate. 
Mr Ss occupational defined benefit  (DB) pension scheme closed  in 2018, and now offers  a 
defined contribution (DC)  scheme. Mr S consulted another financial advisor who arranged  to 
transfer his pension savings from S to make AVCs to the occupational  DC scheme.  
Mr S complained to Quilter saying instead  of starting  the personal pension  he should have 
been advised to make AVCs via salary sacrifice  from the outset, as when he came to take 
his benefits any AVC contributions would be prioritised for tax-free  cash, avoiding  
commuting valuable defined benefits. He requested compensation for six years of 
contributions to a personal pension plan he didnt need. 
Ref: DRN67687402Quilter didnt uphold  the complaint, saying in summary:
The personal pension met Mr Ss objective to raise  £220,000 for his children in 15 
years, which he prioritised over his own retirement income;
AVCs had been discounted  as although Mr S could  take 25% of his overall  benefits  
including any AVCs  as tax free cash, any surplus would  have to be used to purchase  an 
annuity and wouldnt  increase his DB pension as he appeared to believe;
AVCs would only be accessible without  penalty at the same time as he took benefits 
from the occupational  scheme at age 65. Whereas he could take benefits  from the 
personal pension  plan earlier and more flexibly;
AVCs would limit his investment options whereas  a personal pension gave access  to a 
wider fund choice  necessary to achieve  the required returns  over the 15-year term;
The advisors analysis of Mr Ss OPS suggested hed only be able to take a maximum 
tax-free cash  of around £108,000  without having  to commute  defined benefit  income;
As the scheme had closed Mr S couldnt continue to make contributions;
Mr S hadnt lost out financially as his status as a higher rate taxpayer  means  
contributions to a personal pension benefit  from 20% additional tax relief resulting  in a 
higher plan value in 15 years time than making  AVCs  via salary sacrifice. 
Mr Ss ATR was consistent with the initial discussion and the IFA had reviewed the fund 
choice for both Mr Ss pension plan and ISA annually even though  no ongoing advisor  
fee agreement  was in place. 
Although his fund holding no longer  matched Mr Ss chosen ATR of moderate hed 
decided against  changes to his fund holdings or a further  review;
Mr S chose not to exercise the right to cancel  hed have been given with the personal  
pension documentation  from provider  S. 
I issued a provisional decision in November 2020 as although Id come to the same overall 
outcome as the investigator Id explained  my reasoning in more  detail. 
My provisional findings 
In my provisional decision I said in summary:
Because of the trust deed,  Mr S had a legal obligation, not merely a desire or objective,  
to generate £220,000 for his children in 15 years. 
It was this, rather  than his own income in retirement Mr S had asked Quilter to prioritise 
supported by the suitability letter dated 28 December 2012 which reads  You confirmed 
your highest priority  is to save on a regular basis to build  up a sufficient lump sum in 15 
years time for your childrens trust fund;
As this sum was half the value  of the property, there was a risk Mr S would have  to 
sell his home;
Mr S had originally wanted to save into an ISA, but the personal pension  benefitted  from 
additional tax relief, enabling him to reach his savings goal more quickly;
Having reviewed  the trust document I thought the advisor had interpreted  it as requiring 
the trust fund to be held separately  from Mr Ss own funds, as it mentions a separate 
savings account . 
Mr S wanted the plan owner to be himself. While any AVCs Mr S paid to his OPS  would 
ultimately benefit him, I thought  it likely the trustees of the OPS  would be considered the 
owners of those funds;
Ref: DRN67687403As well as being  against  Mr Ss wishes, the advisor might  have been concerned this would 
leave Mr S vulnerable  to acting outside  of the trust requirements, and I was reluctant to say 
that paying more into Mr Ss existing pension (which is what making AVCs effectively is) 
met his obligation  to generate the funds for the specific  benefit  of his children;
The initial fact-find and all of the annual  reviews except the last one in 2018  assessed 
Mr Ss ATR as dynamic using an industry standard risk questionnaire. According to the 
definition dynamic  investors are described  as happy  to take investment risk and 
understand this is crucial in generating long-term  return  (ten years and over). As Mr S 
doesnt recall requesting his ATR be reduced to moderate then I thought it reasonable 
to say he accepted  the dynamic assessment.
The personal illustration showed  Mr Ss plan was invested in 18 funds  in line with his 
ATR ranging  from corporate bonds, and UK, European, US, Asian  and global.  The 
suitability letter  notes  that the deductions for charges  are assumed to bring  investment 
growth down from 7% to 5.1%  per year, and taper over time;
A stakeholder plan had been discounted despite  the capped charges  due to the limited  
range of funds, and provider Ss website showed  their stakeholder plan is now closed 
to new investors;
The AMC for AVCs to the OPS is low and varies with investment choice, but it only 
provides a choice  of four funds - a UK equity fund, a Global equity  fund, a with-profits  
fund and a cash  fund, so harder to invest in line with his ATR;
Like the investigator I didnt  think the incomplete copy of the suitability report was 
significant in determining the complaint;
I understood  Mr S has now transferred  his savings  with S into AVCs in his OPS on the 
advice of his new advisor;
But I didnt think this meant the Quilter advisor wasnt  acting in Mr Ss best interests,  as 
importantly his OPS  is now defined contribution rather than defined benefit as it was in 2012,
And AVCs may not have satisfied  the terms of the trust declaration as explained earlier.
So my provisional conclusion was that while Mr S couldve  made  AVCs  to his OPS,  that 
didnt make Quilters advice to save into a personal  pension unsuitable. 
Both parties  responded to the provisional  decision.
Mr S made the following  points (in summary) 
Quilter should have explored the options available  with his occupational scheme;
The wording  of the trust deed  makes  no difference  as he could  have completed  an 
additional expression of wish in favour  of his children;
His employer didnt  need to contribute to the AVC as they were already providing  a 
good pension;  
The OPS  changed to CARE (career  average)  in 2009 so only contributions from then to 
when it closed  in 2018 require benefits to be taken at age 65;
If hed been given the option he definitely would have chosen to make AVCs;
He wasnt sent the suitability letter following  the November 2012 meeting, the 
incomplete version is the only one hed seen;
Its a large house, and he did discuss selling it and downsizing  at age 62 with the 
advisor, but this wasnt mentioned  in the report.
Ref: DRN67687404Quilter accepted the provisional decision but made  the following points:
The suitability  letter  dated  28 December 2012  was correctly addressed and would  have 
been sent to Mr S at the time on the advisors firms  headed paper;
If Mr S had always intended  to sell his house  and downsize at age 62 to generate  the 
funds for his children, why would he consult  an advisor  to ask how he could save 
towards this goal 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions reached  in the provisional decision.  But Ill first respond to the points raised. 
Options with the OPS
I think its with hindsight  Mr S says he wouldve made AVCs to his OPS in 2012 if he knew 
he could. Firstly I think he always knew he could make AVCs, as this information would have 
been available to him as a member of his OPS. He knew how to contact the scheme  
administrators as he did so to obtain  a valuation prior to his meeting with Quilter.  And the 
advisor relied on information about  AVCs hed obtained  from Mr Ss OPS  during their 
meeting. If Mr S had simply  wanted to use his additional disposable income to enhance his 
own retirement benefits he could have arranged  to make AVCs direct  with his OPS.  
The OPS  information  provides a choice of four funds (UK equity, global equity, with-profits  
and cash) and says Choosing where  to invest your AVCs may seem  a little daunting. If you 
are not sure about  your investment choices you could contact an independent  advisor for 
help, although  they may charge a fee.  So if Mr S had decided to make AVCs he may have 
needed to consult Quilter  (or another IFA) about his investment options.
The OPS  information  from 2012  states HMRC allows  you to take 25% of the capital value of your 
total [scheme name] benefits including AVCs  as a tax-free cash sum. So Mr S could  have 
calculated that as long as his total OPS  benefits  including any AVCs  hed made  exceeded 
£880,000 by 2027 he could release  the amount he needed as tax free cash,  with any residual 
AVC funds being used to purchase an annuity. But this information also says AVC benefits can 
only be taken when  your [scheme  name ] benefits  become payable, suggesting if this was his 
only way to meet his obligation to his sons,  Mr S would have to take his pension at 62, whether 
this suited his wider personal circumstances or not. And this might be less certain if Mr S is 
correct that benefits  from contributions made in the nine years between 2009  to 2018 cant  be 
taken until 65, (accepting  the closure of the scheme  in 2018 wouldnt have been known in 2012). 
Ref: DRN67687405Mr S approached Quilter  not about enhancing  his own retirement, but about the most efficient 
way to meet his legal  financial obligation  to his sons. His monthly budget  was £1,200  and had 
he done nothing  more than save this amount each year for 16 years  (to cover both sons  
turning 30), with no investment growth,  hed likely  raise enough,  although investments can fall 
as well as rise. The fact-find records that Mr S initially enquired about starting  an ISA although 
annual contributions of that level would have exceeded the relevant ISA allowance  at the time. 
But I think this reinforces  his primary objective wasnt boosting  his pension.  Instead of an ISA, 
Quilter recommended Mr S save  into a personal  pension to benefit from the tax relief  on his 
contributions to reach his savings goal sooner. And in a separate  recommendation letter  said 
he could afford to invest £300 a month  into an ISA. But a key reason for discounting AVCs 
was in relation  to the terms of the trust. Which sets Mr Ss circumstances apart  from someone  
who simply wanted to use their surplus  income  towards their own retirement.  
The terms of the trust 
Mr S is right to say AVC contributions would  also benefit  from tax relief. But paying additional 
funds into Mr Ss own pension, which AVCs effectively are, may not satisfy  the requirements  
as set out in the trust declaration to generate  funds  specifically for the benefit of his sons. I 
think the wording is relevant, as it makes clear  Mr S had a legal obligation to release a 
significant amount  of money at two fixed dates. So it was essential  Mr S could  generate 
sufficient funds in 15 years,  and that the funds were ring-fenced for this purpose.  
Expression of wish
The OPS  annual benefit statement as at March  2012 shows  Mr Ss expression  of wish in 
favour of his sons.  He could complete a separate one in relation to any AVC contributions.  
But as the name suggests such a document captures the members wishes  in respect of 
their pension benefits in the event of their death. They  are not legally  binding  as the scheme 
trustees or administrators can usually exercise discretion if other dependents come  forward. 
At the time of the advice Mr Ss sons were  in their early teens, so would be considered 
dependent, but that wont be the case at age 30 when Mr S is required to pay them.  So Im 
not persuaded completing an expression  of wish would be enough  to ensure the funds  would 
be paid to Mr Ss children at age 30. 
The incomplete suitability  report
With its final response letter to Mr Ss complaint in 2018 Quilter included  some supporting  
evidence including  a copy of the suitability  letter  dated 28 December 2012. Unfortunately it 
was an incomplete  version with some missing information. As Mr S said he didnt recall 
receiving the original, the poor quality undermined  his confidence in the advice. And he 
thought the investigator had based  his conclusions on the incomplete report without  
commenting on it. Quilter provided  a complete  copy of the letter which  it says would have 
been sent to Mr S by the advisor on his firms headed paper following the meeting. The letter  
told Mr S to expect a separate suitability letter in relation to saving into an ISA and that letter  
is dated 9 January 2013. 
Ref: DRN67687406The suitability letter is a record of the information  captured and the advice given in the 
meeting. Mr S hasnt  disputed the meeting with the adviser took place,  so he received the 
advice verbally prior to receiving the written confirmation. And I think its likely he knew to 
expect something in writing, so had he not received the letter dated 28 December 2012,  or 
received a version with gaps I think hed have  queried it with the advisor on receipt of the 
second letter  about the ISA, or when  he received  the paperwork from provider S. Although 
he may not recall receiving it now and found  the contents unfamiliar due to the passage  of 
time, I think on balance he did receive  it at the time. 
Selling his house
Mr S says he discussed the potential to release funds by selling his home prior to 62, and 
that its a probability  as its a large house. But this is an uncertain  solution as Mr S or the 
advisor couldnt predict property values, the housing market or Mr Ss personal 
circumstances 15 years into the future to be sure selling his home to raise  the sum he 
needed at the specified time was realistic or convenient. Mr S (and his live-in partner) would 
effectively be homeless, if he was left with insufficient funds to purchase a suitable property 
once hed paid the £220,000 and any fees.  And Im persuaded by the advisors argument 
that if this was Mr Ss intention all along hes unlikely to have involved a financial advisor. 
Summary
Mr S had a particular reason for consulting Quilter, so any comparisons with the effect on his 
own pension  entitlement if hed chosen  to make  AVCS into his OPS must be considered  in 
that context. AVCs may have been  a better  option  if using  his surplus income  to boost his 
own retirement was his priority. And there  are some complicating factors which werent  
known at the time, like the pension fund closing in 2018 and whether and how much  of his 
benefits he could  take earlier than 65 without  penalty. 
Any pension contributions benefit from tax relief and there are advantages  by doing so 
through salary  sacrifice. But for the reasons explained above,  that doesnt  overcome the 
difficulties of satisfying  the trust agreement that the funds must be available  at particular 
dates and should be held specifically for that purpose, while  owned  by Mr S. Mr S may be 
correct that he could take his combined pension benefits at 62 and prioritise the AVCs for 
the tax-free cash element. But the AVC information provided by the OPS  does make clear 
any residual AVCs funds  would be used to purchase  an annuity. And the Quilter advisor is 
right that Mr S can take his personal  pension benefits separately  from the OPS,  earlier  and 
more flexibly. But if he did so, Mr S could only take 25% tax-free which may erode the tax 
advantage on his contributions. Which makes me think theres no perfect solution to 
Mr Ss very particular requirements. 
On balance I cant say Quilters advice was unsuitable as it provided  Mr S with a tax efficient  
means of raising  the funds for his children while satisfying the trust declarations requirement 
for the funds to be held specifically for that purpose. And once  his obligation to raise 
£220,000 had been met hed also enhance  his own pension in retirement. 
So for the reasons Ive explained  I dont uphold this complaint.   
Ref: DRN67687407my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6768740