K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the Royal London Mutual Insurance  Society Limited (Royal London) 
wont allow  him to make  additional  contributions  to his personal pension  plan. He complains 
that Royal London made this change in 2001 but it didnt inform him until recently. 
background
Mr M took out a personal pension plan in 1991.  He increased his contributions in 1993  and 
1995. In 2001 the government introduced stakeholder pensions  and Royal  London stopped  
accepting new business for personal  pension plans. This included  making  additional 
contributions to existing  plans.  Instead it offered its own stakeholder  pension.  Then  in 2015 
Royal London stopped offering stakeholder pension plans. 
In 2019 Mr M enquired  about increasing the contributions to his pension  plan. The business 
informed him he was unable to do so as it had stopped accepting additional contributions  in 
2001. Mr M was also informed that a letter had been  sent to plan holders at the time 
informing them of this change.
Mr M complained to Royal London.  He said he hadnt been  informed at the time that 
additional contributions would no longer be accepted. 
Royal London didnt  uphold his complaint. It said it had made a business decision not to 
accept new business  for personal pensions following the introduction of stakeholder 
pensions. It apologised  that Mr M had been  incorrectly informed that Royal  London had 
written to its pension plan holders at the time.  Royal London said its agents had been  made  
aware that it had stopped accepting additional contributions in 2001. So they would have  
explained this to customers if, and when, customers applied to increase their pension 
contributions. 
Mr M disagreed and referred  his complaint to our service. Our investigator  considered  his 
complaint but didnt  think it should  be upheld. She said Royal  London was entitled  to make a 
commercial business  decision not to accept  additional contributions.  The investigator noted 
the introduction  of stake holder pensions at that time. She also took into account that agents 
acting for the business would have explained  this change if customers approached them to 
discuss increasing their pension contributions.
As no agreement could be reached  Mr Ms complaint was referred  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M took out a personal pension plan in 1991.  There is limited documentation  from the 
point of sale but the benefit schedule document sets out the way the plan works. In 
consideration of the payment of premiums the plan would provide the plan holder, Mr M, with 
certain retirement benefits.
Ref: DRN69313512In schedule 1 of the benefit schedule it said:
(2) The Member has by means of a proposal  and declaration proposed to effect with the 
Society a policy  to provide benefits  upon  the terms hereinafter expressed.
In 1991 Mr M made an application (or proposal) to Royal London (or the Co-operative 
Insurance Society Limited  as it was then)  to pay a certain premium  or regular contribution  in 
return for certain pension  benefits.
So I think the application was a proposal  which Royal London  could accept or decline.  Royal  
London accepted Mr Ms application and his pension plan was put into effect. 
The benefit  schedule  indicated there  was also an option under the plan to make additional 
contributions.
In Schedule 3 under  the heading Conditions and Privileges it said:
(14) The Member may at any time complete a further proposal and declaration  to pay 
additional premiums  under  this policy and the benefits provided by such  additional premiums 
will be effected as part of this policy by endorsement issued by the Society. The Scheme 
Administrator may refuse to accept the said proposal if the resulting total premiums payable  
to the Scheme by the Member would be less than the minimum amount specified in The 
Pension Schemes (Voluntary Contributions  Requirements  and Voluntary and Compulsory 
Membership) Regulations 1987 as amended from time to time.
So similarly  each time Mr M has wanted  to make additional contributions,  for instance in 
1993 and 1995, he applied to Royal London to do so. On those  occasions,  which  were  prior 
to 2001, Royal London accepted his applications  and Mr Ms contributions were increased.
While I consider there was an option to increase contributions under the contract Im not 
persuaded on balance that Royal London had to agree to any such application.
Royal London has said it would have refused any such application after 2001 as it was no 
longer taking on new business.  If a plan holder wished  to increase their pension  
contributions they could  do so by taking out a stakeholder pension. 
I am satisfied that this was a commercial business  decision  which  Royal London  was entitled 
to make.  I accept that this came  about  against  a background of changes  to pension  
legislation and the introduction of stakeholder pensions. I also take into account this was not 
something personal to Mr M. All existing personal  pension plan holders who wished to 
increase their contributions after that date would have been in the same  position. 
In addition if Mr M had enquired into increasing  his contributions  at that time he would have 
been able to so do by taking out a stakeholder pension. So I dont consider the change left 
him with no other options. 
I also take into account that Royal  London is still honouring the existing agreement as set 
out in the original application and subsequent accepted proposals. Mr M is still able to make 
his regular contributions.  
Ref: DRN69313513Information provided to Mr M and other  pension plan holders
 
Mr M complains that Royal London  didnt  tell him in 2001 that it was no longer accepting  
additional contributions.  He also complains  Royal London didnt tell him prior to 
implementing that change. Mr M says if it had done  so he could have  increased  his 
contributions or explored other options.
Im not convinced that Royal  London was obliged to inform  its plan holders  as soon as it took 
the commercial business decision  that it wasnt going to accept new business. Royal  London 
wasnt changing the existing contract  to pay a specified monthly premium so there  was no 
immediate impact on its plan holders. Indeed  unless  plan holders wanted to increase their 
regular contribution there would be no impact.
Royal London has explained that if plan holders  wished to increase their pension 
contributions this had to be completed via one of its agents who would review  the customers 
situation. This would  involve  the completion of a new application form.
Royal London relied upon its agents  to inform existing pension  plan holders  that they could 
no longer increase their contributions to their personal pension plans. If, and when, plan 
holders approached the agents to apply to increase their premiums.  So plan holders were 
given this information, if and when, it became relevant.  If pension  plan holders wanted to 
make additional  contributions  they would have been  able to do by taking out a stakeholder  
pension instead.
I think it would have  been good customer service  to send out information to existing pension  
plan holders at the time Royal Londons  decision not to accept additional  contributions was 
implemented. So plan holders were made aware  of the change.  But I dont think on balance 
that Royal London was obliged to do so as this change didnt have an immediate  impact  on 
plan holders.
I also take into account that this all took place in 2001 and so I have to consider Royal 
Londons actions  against the business standards and practice that applied at the time. 
I take into account that whilst plan holders were  unable to make  additional contributions  to 
their existing plans  they still had the option to contribute to a stakeholder pension plan which 
was generally considered  to be a reasonable option  because this type of plan was flexible 
and charges were  capped.
 
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy that he was not informed by Royal London at the time. I can 
see why Mr M is disappointed that now he is in a position to make additional contributions to 
his personal pension plan, he is no longer able to do so and I have sympathy for his 
situation. 
But Im not convinced on balance that if Mr M had been informed by Royal London  in 2001 
this would have  resulted  in a different outcome.
 
Mr M didnt  enquire about making additional  contributions until 2019.  So it seems  unlikely  on 
balance he would have  increased his contributions before that date.
Ref: DRN69313514Mr M could  have made additional  contributions  before  then but that would have depended 
on his circumstances  and objectives at the time. In 2001 Mr M was much further away from 
retirement so making pension contributions  was probably not as pressing as it is now.
Mr M has also explained his circumstances have changed in recent  years  and he is now in a 
reasonable financial position  to make additional contributions.  He has explained his decision  
to make additional contributions came about  as a result of an overarching financial review as 
he changed from employed work to being  self employed. Mr M has also said he set up 
another pension  plan in 2017.
I take into account that Mr M didnt seek to increase his contributions  until fairly recently and 
I dont consider on balance that he was in a position  to increase his contributions prior to that 
date. Or in any event, Im not persuaded on balance that he wanted to do so. It seems likely 
that Mr M approached the business  in 2019 because his circumstances had changed and he 
had more available income. 
Overall I am not persuaded that the business has acted incorrectly  or unfairly in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ms complaint against The Royal London Mutual  Insurance 
Society Limited is not upheld for the reasons outlined in this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6931351