K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about how Tesco Underwriting Limited handled a claim made on his motor  
insurance policy following  an accident.  He wants his claim paid or repairs to his car 
completed.
background
Mr A said he was involved in an incident  with another  car that hit him from behind. Tesco 
had an engineer inspect his car and he didnt think the claimed for damage was consistent  
with the collision  or the damage to the other car. Tesco  couldnt  establish what  damage had 
been caused by the other  car. So Tesco declined to pay for any repairs.  Mr A was unhappy 
with this and that he was asked to collect his car from the garage  when  it hadnt  been 
repaired. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  there 
were inconsistencies  in the testimonies  Mr A provided and the damage to his car. Tesco 
couldnt establish what damage  was accident-related. So she thought Tesco  had reasonably 
decided not to pay for any repairs. She also thought Tesco had tried to provide Mr A with a 
hire car whilst his was being  repaired. She said she couldnt hold Tesco  responsible for the 
hire car firm declining to make one available.
Mr A replied  that hed lost his car through no fault of his own.  He said the speed of the other 
car caused the damage to his that made it a total loss. He asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has told us that the other drivers insurer accepted liability for the accident and hes 
now had his personal injury claim paid.  But hes still waiting for his car to be repaired. The 
other insurer has refused  to deal with the repairs as Tesco had refused the claim.  Its now 
almost two years since the collision.  I can appreciate that Mr A has been  caused frustration 
and inconvenience  as he says hes been without his car for this time.
Tesco said it declined the claim because there  were  discrepancies between  the accident  
circumstances and the damage Mr A said had been caused to his car. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
repairs.
Tesco had an engineer inspect Mr As car. He found heavy damage to the rear and other  
damage around the car. He didnt think the rear damage  was consistent with the collision 
and so Tesco had an inspection made  of the other car. The engineer  said that the damage  
between the cars wasnt consistent. 
Ref: DRN60451462Mr A said his car was left unattended for two days before Tesco recovered it. He said further 
damage was done in this time at the garage it was recovered to. But Tescos engineer said 
the damage claimed for couldnt have been  caused  by vandalism. So Tesco  then decided to 
decline the claim as it said the accident  hadnt happened as described.
I think Tesco reasonably  investigated the claim and considered the evidence  before making 
its decision to decline the claim. I think it can rely on the expert evidence provided by its 
engineer. I cant see any further evidence it should  have considered. I can see that Mr As 
policy requires him to provide accurate information  about his claim at the risk of having  the 
claim declined.  So I think Tesco is entitled  to decline the claim and I dont require it pay for 
the repairs to Mr As car. 
I can see that Tesco provided Mr A with one hire car and then the firm asked for his second 
hire car to be returned. But I think Tesco attempted to provide a hire car as required under  
the policy terms and conditions. Unfortunately, the hire company were  unwilling to extend 
the hire. But I cant reasonably hold Tesco responsible for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6045146