K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Covea Insurance plcs handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Covea includes their agents.
background
Mr W had a policy with another insurer that he had applied for online and taken out through 
a broker. During the online application he said his occupation was an administration  
manager.
In December 2017, Mr W called his broker to amend his address, the insured car and to add 
his partner to the existing  policy. But the existing insurer  wouldnt  provide cover for his 
partner so the broker suggested  a Covea policy. Mr W agreed  and took out a new policy  with 
Covea. The new policy was issued on the basis of the information Mr W had given when he 
had taken out the previous policy, together with the new details he gave about his partner. 
During the call in December 2017, Mr W said that his partner didnt have any motoring 
convictions, licence  endorsements or penalty  points in the last five years.
In February 2018,  Mr W made  a claim on his policy following an accident that caused 
damage to his car. While  making his claim he was asked what  his occupation was to which  
he replied, housing  officer. Covea later found  out that Mr Cs partner had received penalty 
points for speeding  in September  2014. Covea said that had they known about Mr Ws 
correct occupation  and his partners penalty  points, his premium would have been 24.01%  
higher than he was charged when he took out the policy in December 2017. For that reason,  
Covea proportionately reduced  Mr Ws claim settlement by 24.01%.
Mr Ws car was deemed a total loss. Covea said they would pay him the cars pre-accident  
market value. They first valued the car at £5,360.  They  later increased that to £6,000 and 
then to £6,420.  They  said they would deduct 24.01% from that final amount along with the 
policy excess.
Mr W complained.  He said Covea had undervalued his car and that it was worth  more. He 
also said it was unfair  for them to deduct  24.01%. Covea accepted  that their service  should 
have been better, so they paid Mr W £150  compensation.  But they didnt uphold the main 
aspects of Mr Ws complaint. Mr W brought his complaint to our service.
Two of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws complaint. One of them  felt that it was unfair  for 
Covea to make a proportionate deduction from the settlement because of the non-disclosure 
of Mr Ws partners penalty points.  The other  said we couldnt consider Mr Ws complaint 
about the cars total loss valuation under  this case reference because he hadnt raised it as 
part of his complaint from the start.  But she said it was reasonable for Covea to make a 
proportionate settlement  based on the non-disclosure  of Mr Ws correct  occupation.  As Mr W 
didnt agree with our adjudicators, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 September 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr W, but Im not intending to uphold  his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN63900252It would appear that when  our service got involved in this complaint, Covea agreed 
not to make  a proportionate deduction  for the non-disclosure of Mr Ws partners 
penalty points.  But they didnt agree that in relation to the non-disclosure of Mr Ws 
correct occupation.  But Covea wanted an ombudsman to consider all the issues  
together. I should  also say that Mr W did complain about the cars valuation  being too 
low to both Covea and our service when  he first approached us. So, I will first 
consider that issue in this decision.
valuation
Mr W had what  is known as a market  value policy. That means  in the event his car 
was deemed a total loss, Covea would have to pay its market value immediately 
before the accident. 
I feel that the starting point when trying to establish  the market  value  of a car is to 
look at the industry  trade guides,  and that is what Covea did, as I would expect. The 
guides are based  on extensive  nationwide  research of likely selling prices. The three  
guides Covea  used returned  values  of £5,273; £5,320; and £6,420  respectively. 
Where one guide is markedly out of line with the other  two, we think  its reasonable 
that the insurer disregards the one that is out of line. But in this case  Covea used the 
highest guide for its final valuation, which I think was reasonable.
Mr W said that a number  of adverts he found  for similar cars were asking for higher 
prices. But we find the guides reliable  and more persuasive than the asking  price  
for a car advertised. The advertised asking price  for a car is not necessarily the price  
it sold for, nor is it necessarily the true market value. And often the advertised price 
may be inflated to allow for negotiation.
I feel the settlement  offer Covea made  was fair and reasonable, and that they 
followed the industry accepted valuation method that our service expects. And I 
havent seen any convincing evidence to show that the valuation should  have  been  
higher, so Im not intending to ask Covea to increase their offer.
Mr Ws duty to provide accurate information
Covea said that Mr W not disclosing his correct occupation and his partners penalty 
points amounted to, what is known  in the insurance  industry, a careless  
misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers 
may do in such a situation. It says that if an insurer would have charged a higher 
premium had they known  about a fact that hadnt been disclosed, they may reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim.
During the online application  Mr W said he was an administration manager. And 
when he took out the policy with Covea, they sent him documentation confirming they 
had insured him on the basis that he was an administration manager.  The 
documentation asked  him to read the information  carefully and advise Covea 
immediately should  any of it be incorrect. It warned of consequences, including a 
claim not being paid in full, were the information to be incorrect. But Mr W didnt 
correct it.
Ref: DRN63900253Ive listened to the call from February  2018 when Mr W said he was a housing officer. 
When he was challenged  by Coveas call handler about having  previously  said he 
was an administration  manager, he accepted that the two job descriptions were  
slightly different. I have also seen information from Mr Ws employer. They  
confirmed that while  Mr Ws job title did change  during his employment from Sales & 
Business Support  Officer to Right to Buy Officer, his role and responsibilities  
remained the same throughout. He was at all times a housing officer.
Mr W told our service that during the online application where he had to state his 
occupation, the drop-down menu didnt have an exhaustive list of occupations  to 
choose. He said choosing housing officer  wasnt an option, so he selected  
administration manager  as what he believed to be the closest job description to his. 
But Covea have  shown  me a screenshot  of the relevant  page  Mr W has described.  It 
shows that once  the letters hous are typed  into a blank box, a list of occupations 
automatically appear containing  the words house  and housing. The list includes 
housing officer. The question asking Mr W for his occupation was clear,  so I think 
he should have  answered it by selecting  housing officer, which would have  been  a 
correct description of his occupation. But he didnt. I should add that on the page 
where the occupation question was asked there was a note that said,  Insurance  
companies take your occupation and type of business into account when they 
calculate the cost of your insurance,  so I think Mr W should  have been aware of the 
importance of accurately  stating his correct occupation.
During the call in December 2017, Mr W was asked  if his partner had any motoring 
convictions, endorsements or penalty  points in the past five years.  He answered no. 
But she was given penalty points in September 2014 for speeding. As Mr W was the 
policy holder it was his responsibility to take reasonable care to provide all the correct  
information about the named driver,  but I don't think he did so.
I therefore think that Mr W made  a careless  misrepresentation in relation to the 
information he gave  about his occupation and his partners driving history.
Covea have said that had he given the correct information his premium would have 
cost 24.01% more  than he was charged initially. As a result, in accordance with 
CIDRA, Covea were entitled  to reduce the claim by that amount. So, Im not 
intending to uphold this part of the complaint as I think  Covea  acted reasonably by 
settling the claim proportionately. 
the increased cost of the premium
Mr W said that it wasnt fair for the premium to be higher  when the policy was 
corrected with the information  about  his occupation  and his partners penalty points. 
He didnt think they should make  a difference and said that Covea had failed to 
provide him with the information  showing how the premium increased.
It might help if I explain that we're not the industry  regulator. That means it's not my 
role to tell an insurer how much they can charge  for their policies. And our service 
generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat 
customers with similar circumstances  in the same way - insurers  are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Ref: DRN63900254When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of 
risk rating factors. In other  words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder 
poses and the likelihood of them making  a claim in the future by looking at many  
different factors. It might  help if I give just a few examples  of the hundreds  of factors 
insurers may consider:  the type of car insured; where the car is kept;  the 
policyholders occupation;  the policyholders age; the type of licence the policyholder 
has; the length of time the car has been owned; the number of years  the policyholder 
has been driving; and past driving incidents the policyholder  has been involved in. 
But its not down  to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account  
when assessing  risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Different insurers will 
have different views  on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats 
essentially a matter of commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to 
compete with other policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its 
fair to interfere with.
And one of the reasons  why different insurers charge different premiums for the 
same risk is because insurers have different views on risk. So, different insurers give 
differing levels  of importance to different factors. For example, one insurer might 
consider a policyholder with a certain  occupation  to pose  a higher risk than other  
occupations and therefore charge a higher premium to reflect that risk. But another 
insurer might  not consider  that occupation to be a higher risk, so their premium might  
be lower. Insurers  base  their views on risks using statistics and other data. In Mr Ws 
case, Covea feel that there is a difference in risk between a housing  officer  and an 
administration manager. And Im aware that Covea, like most insurers,  consider 
drivers with penalty points  in recent  years  to pose a higher risk. As insurance is 
essentially an assessment of risk, I dont  think theres anything wrong with insurers 
considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher risk groupings  and so 
wish to charge a higher premium to cover  that risk.
Covea provided  me with information to show how Mr Ws increased premium was 
calculated. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Mr W. I 
know that is frustrating  for Mr W but, having  looked at it carefully, Im satisfied that 
Covea treated Mr W in the same  way as they would other policyholders  in similar 
circumstances. So, I think they calculated his premium reasonably.
the named drivers penalty points
Mr W said that as his partners penalty  points were  more than three years old, they 
were spent and didnt have to be disclosed.
But, in addition to the penalty  points, Mr Ws partner  also received an endorsement 
which applied for five years. So, while the points may have become spent after three 
years, the endorsement remained and had to be declared by Mr W until September 
2019. So, Covea  were entitled  to take it into consideration when setting Mr Ws 
premium.
The New Guidance on the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (the Guidance),  
states under  What are the rehabilitation periods for motoring offences?:
An endorsement [my emphasis]  for a road traffic offence listed  in Schedule  2 
to the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988,  imposed either by the court or by 
means of a fixed penalty notice (FPN) is a sentence for the purposes of the 
Ref: DRN639002551974 Act and may become spent after 5 years  [my emphasis] (or two and half 
years where the offender is under  18). Road traffic  legislation specifically 
provides for a FPN [fixed penalty notice] in these circumstances to be treated 
as a conviction and dealt  with as such under the 1974 Act. Penalty points and 
a driving disqualification imposed by the court  on conviction may become 
spent when they cease to have effect  (penalty points have effect for three 
years as set out in road traffic legislation).  Where  the court imposes more 
than one sentence or penalty for the offence then the longest rehabilitation 
period determines  when  the conviction  may become spent.
Immediately after the above text, the Guidance gives  the following example:
An adult is convicted of a road traffic  offence,  and the court imposes  a fine 
(rehabilitation period 1 year), an endorsement (rehabilitation period 5 years),  
penalty points  (rehabilitation period 3 years) and driving disqualification for 1 
year (rehabilitation  period  1 year); the rehabilitation period for this conviction  
will be 5 years because the endorsement carries the longest rehabilitation 
period.

Once the conviction becomes spent,  the person is not required to declare it 
when applying for most jobs, or (motor) insurance.  
So, I think Covea acted  reasonably when taking  the endorsement into consideration 
when calculating Mr Ws premium.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Covea accepted  my provisional  
findings. But Mr W didnt and made the following points:
The information he provided hadnt been considered.
My provisional decision was biased in Coveas favour.
Our service took too long to deal with the complaint after the first adjudicator left our 
service.
My provisional decision was rushed.
The two adjudicators who dealt with his complaint initially  came  to different views.
When taking out the policy online,  there  was no option of selecting right to buy 
officer.  So, he selected the closest job description, which was administrator. So, he 
didnt make a misrepresentation and it was unfair  for Covea to say his premium 
would have been higher.
He asked his partner if she had any penalty  points  but she said she didnt because 
she forgot about them. In any event, they were spent. So, he didnt make a 
misrepresentation and it was unfair  for Covea to say his premium would have been  
higher.
He disputes  Coveas valuation of the car.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not changing my 
decision.
I can understand that Mr W is upset with my decision because it isnt the outcome he 
wanted. But that doesnt mean I didnt consider the information he provided or that I was 
Ref: DRN63900256biased in Coveas favour. I confirm that I fully reviewed  and considered all the information 
that has been provided by both Mr W and Covea. I havent referred to every  bit of 
information Ive considered in my decision.  Ive only referred to the information  I think  is 
necessary to explain how I reached my decision.  So, just because  something hasnt been 
referred to doesnt  mean I havent  considered it.  
Mr W said he thinks I rushed my decision. But as Ive mentioned above, Ive considered all 
the information provided to our service and weighted that carefully before reaching my 
decision. So, I dont  agree that my decision was rushed.
Mr W also pointed  out that the two adjudicators  who considered  his complaint came to 
different conclusions. And that one of them found in his favour.  I should  say that it isnt 
unusual for different adjudicators to come to different  opinions.  But, ultimately, where a party 
is unhappy with an adjudicators view its for an ombudsman  to make a final decision. An 
ombudsman isnt bound by the view of an adjudicator. An ombudsman  job is to consider all 
the evidence afresh  and to reach  an impartial decision. And that is what Ive done  in this 
complaint, as I do with every complaint I deal with.
Mr W said that part of the facts I outlined in my provisional decision was incorrect.  Mr W 
said: You also claim in your letter  that I had insurance with another insurer  and applied 
online, so please can you liberate on where  you got this information from?  To make this 
clear, when I updated my existing policy on 4th December 2017  to include my partner, 
change of address,  this was not online as you claim but via a phone call to the broker.  Mr W 
went on to say when  he first took out his policy in March 2016, through  the same broker,  with 
a different insurer he did so online.  But that is exactly  what I said in my provisional decision.
I said: Mr W had a policy with another insurer that he had applied for online and taken out 
through a broker. So, I said that hed originally  taken  out a policy  online through a broker,  
that is the policy Mr W took out in March 2016.  I added, During the online application  he 
said his occupation  was an administration manager. In December 2017, Mr W called his 
broker to amend his address, the insured car and to add his partner to the existing policy. 
But the existing  insurer wouldnt provide cover  for his partner so the broker suggested a 
Covea policy. To clarify,  Mr W took out his original policy in March  2016 with a different 
insurer. He did that online through a broker and gave his occupation  as administration 
manager.  In December  2017, he called the same  broker  to make amendments  to his policy.  
As the then insurer wouldnt  provide Mr W with insurance on the basis of the amendments, 
the broker suggested the Covea policy. The broker  had to use all of Mr Ws details to set up 
the new policy. But, because it was the same  broker from the March  2016 policy, they 
already had the details he gave online back then. So, during that conversation, the broker  
asked Mr W if all the other details on his policy (that he gave in March  2016) were the same.  
Other than the new details he called to give, namely  the change  of address, the new car and 
adding his partner,  Mr W confirmed his details were the same. So, the broker  took that as 
meaning he was still an administration manager.  The broker  then sent Mr W his new policy 
documents that confirmed all the details they had for him, including  his occupation  as being 
an administration manager. The policy documents  asked  Mr W to check  all the details and to 
tell Covea if anything  was wrong. But he didnt  correct his occupation.
Mr W said that when taking out the policy  online (in 2016), there  was no option for him to 
select right to buy officer. I note he had earlier said there was no option to select housing 
officer. So, he selected the closest job description,  which was administrator. But what he 
selected was administration manager. And when he spoke with Covea in February  2018,  to 
report the accident and he was asked  what his occupation was, he didnt say he was a right 
Ref: DRN63900257to buy officer, he said he was a housing officer. And when he was challenged, he accepted 
that the two job descriptions were slightly  different  and went on to explain his role, and 
again confirmed  he was a housing officer. Mr W also said that it was probably  the broker 
that recorded his occupation as administration manager. But Mr W gave that job description 
when he applied for the 2016 policy online, so it wasnt added by the broker.  And the 
description of his job role provided to our service by Mr Ws employer is akin to a housing 
officer and not an administration manager,  which I think  is something  totally different. Given 
that, and given Mr W himself told Covea during the call in February 2018 that he was a 
housing officer, I think Mr W felt that his role was of a housing officer, which  was an option 
available for him to select when he took out the policy in 2016. But, instead of selecting that, 
he chose administration manager.  My conclusion is that Mr W didnt use reasonable care 
when answering  the question  and, as a result, he made a careless misrepresentation.
Mr W said that the difference  between a housing officer  and an administration  manager  
couldnt mean his premium would have been 24.01% higher. And he asked to see how 
Covea calculated his increased premium. As explained before, that information is 
commercially sensitive  and isnt something I would expect  Covea  to disclose to Mr W or any 
other customer. But, I have seen  that information  and I think  Covea calculated his premium 
reasonably. And I think that had Covea known  about  the penalty points and Mr Ws correct  
job description from the start, they would have  charged him 24.01%  more than they did.
Mr W has made submissions, and has referred  me to certain legislation and guidance, in 
arguing that his partners  penalty points were  spent after three years,  which he says means 
he didnt have to declare  them. Mr W is correct that penalty points for motoring offences may 
become spent when  they cease to have  effect  after three years.  But, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, in addition to the penalty  points,  Mr Ws partner also received an 
endorsement as part of her overall sentence. And, in that case,  the endorsement was only 
spent after five years. 
Not all motoring offences attract  an endorsement.  Some may only be given penalty points. 
But speeding offences receive  an obligatory endorsement. And Covea  specifically asked for 
details of motoring  convictions, driving licence endorsements and fixed  penalties. Mr W 
also highlighted the fact that a fixed penalty  notice (FPN) isnt a conviction which  means the 
Road Traffic Act 1974 doesnt apply. It is correct that a FPN on its own isnt a conviction. But 
the road traffic  legislation specifically says that a FPN for an offence listed in Schedule 2 to 
the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 that attracts an endorsement, as was the case  with    
Mr Ws partner,  is to be treated as a conviction and dealt with as such under the Road Traffic 
Act 1974.  So, given  he was asked  a clear question about whether or not his partner had any 
endorsements, I think he should have told Covea, via the broker,  about his partners 
endorsement.
Turning to the point that Mr W did ask his partner if she had any penalty points, but she said 
she didnt. The policy was in Mr Ws name. So, the onus of taking reasonable care to give 
accurate information  to Covea was on him. But the information he provided wasnt accurate.  
So, I dont think he took reasonable care which led to a misrepresentation being  made.
Finally, Mr W said he didnt think Coveas valuation of his car was fair. But the information  
Mr W provided hasnt  called  into question  the valuations in the trade guides that I referred to 
in my provisional decision,  so I havent  changed my decision.
Ref: DRN63900258my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.  
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6390025