K820x#14complaint
Mr K says the following events occurred,  between 12 and 13 November 2018, in his 
Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) trading account:
He was unable  to close particular positions on both dates.
He also experienced problems in the trading platform when he tried to place  
particular preview trade orders  on both dates.
IB unreasonably  delayed margin close  outs of his positions.  They occurred at a 
price(s) that significantly increased his loss, whereas they could  and should  have  
taken place much earlier  at significantly less loss (or even profit) to him.
background
IB disputes  the complaint.  In the main,  it says:
The complaint  primarily  relates  to Mr Ks margin trading in his execution only online 
trading account;  to the ongoing margin  requirement he had to satisfy at all times as 
part of his trading;  to the margin deficit that occurs whenever the requirement is not 
satisfied; to the need for either a cash deposit  or closure of open positions by the 
client to rectify the deficit; and to its right, as the broker, to liquidate  positions in the 
account  through forced  margin close outs of open positions  where the margin  
deficit is not rectified by the client. The terms and arrangements  in these respects 
were as agreed in the terms for the account, and were followed.
Mr K did not contact IB on 12 November with regards to any problems he was facing. 
Had he done so, it would have helped to address any such  problems.
Mr Ks account was in margin deficit between 12 and 13 November, so his options to 
rectify this  which had to be done  as a priority   were  to deposit  cash  into the 
account or close open positions.  It was not a permissible option for him to open new 
positions or preview and process orders which would worsen  the deficit, which  is 
what he sought to do. He also tried to close positions in a manner that benefited him 
but not the deficit  and was at risk of increasing the deficit  so this was declined on 
13 November.
The terms for the account  gave it discretion over the manner of applying margin  
close outs. It closed  Mr Ks positions reasonably,  and consistent with that discretion.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be upheld  
 for reasons broadly  similar to those given by IB. Mr K disagreed with this outcome. In the 
main, he says:
IB has still not justified  its delay  in applying the margin close  outs to his position.  It 
had opportunities  to do so when his positions  were in profit and up to when they had 
much less loss than the loss that was crystalized when IB eventually liquidated them. 
There was nothing  in the market throughout  the day that prevented  IB from applying  
the liquidation much  earlier in the day.
The same  point  applies to the problems he faced  in trying to close  his positions. It is 
logical that closing his positions would have reduced the margin deficit  and not 
increased it as IB has argued.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN64619082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liquidation Arrangements
The agreed terms for the account present the correlation, as described  by IB, between  
ongoing maintenance of the margin requirement,  the margin deficit that arises upon  breach 
of that maintenance and requirement, the need to either fund an account with cash  or close  
open positions upon a margin  deficit,  IBs right  but not obligation  to liquidate  open 
positions in an account where a margin deficit has not been rectified and its discretion over 
the manner in which such liquidation takes  place.
I consider that IB conducted itself within the above  agreed arrangement  and within its 
liquidation related discretion. I understand Mr Ks argument about how IB could have 
liquidated positions in the account in a manner that would have been less detrimental  to him. 
However, it is an argument that benefits  from hindsight  hindsight  which  shows that an 
earlier liquidation  could  have reduced  his losses. IB did not have this benefit at the time of 
the event and, importantly, it had full discretion on how to apply the liquidation process.  
I do not suggest that it would have been  fair for IB to use its discretion in an unreasonable or 
unduly delayed  manner. However,  the balance of evidence suggests that it applied  a part of 
its discretion towards trying, without  success, to help Mr K with his positions before the 
liquidation was applied. In addition, whilst I note Mr Ks argument that there was nothing  in 
the market preventing a prompt liquidation,  the key points are that there is an absence of 
evidence showing that IB intentionally and/or negligently delayed the liquidation and that IB 
was not obliged to execute a prompt liquidation. As stated above, it had discretion over the 
manner in which it executed liquidation  after an unresolved margin deficit. It should also be 
noted that Mr K had the opportunity to avoid the liquidation by either funding his account or 
closing positions  himself. I have not seen evidence that he funded  the account in response 
to the margin  deficit. I address the matter of his closure attempts below.
Preview Orders and Closure Attempts
Available account activity  evidence  shows that orders Mr K sought to place were  due to be 
detrimental to the margin  deficit.  I do not consider that it was unreasonable  for IBs system to 
decline those orders. 
Mr K also says his idea to close positions was bound to reduce the deficit. He says he 
attempted to do this on 12 November and faced problems on the trading platform  which 
prevented him from doing so. There is no evidence that he contacted IB directly, over the 
telephone, to get assistance with any such problems on this date. On balance, I accept IBs 
explanation that it would  have helped him had he done so. I do not consider it reasonable to 
hold IB responsible for an alleged  problem  with the platform  that was not brought to its 
attention at the time. I also have not seen enough  evidence to establish  the alleged  problem.
With regards to events  on 13 November IB says the manner in which  Mr K sought to close  
his positions would have worsened  the margin deficit, but Mr K says the opposite. I consider 
that both sides  genuinely sought to have the margin deficit addressed. Mr K had the 
opportunity to do so before IB proceeded with the forced liquidation. 
Ref: DRN64619083On balance, I do not consider that IB would have declined Mr Ks attempt to close positions if 
that would  have had a positive effect  on the margin deficit. Both sides  had a mutual interest 
in addressing that deficit so it stands to reason that IB would have facilitated such  an 
attempt. It appears that Mr Ks preference,  in terms of closure, was considered by IB to bear 
risks of worsening the margin  deficit.  In such circumstances it was reasonable for it to have 
suggested an alternative that effectively  or more effectively  addressed the deficit.  
Evidence suggests that Mr K declined the alternative that was suggested and that he was 
aware that, thereafter  and in the absence of a resolution to the deficit, forced liquidation  of 
his positions will take place. He also should have been aware that the liquidation  would take 
place at IBs discretion.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject  my decision 
before 17 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6461908