K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 1994. The policy  was taken 
out when Mrs B applied  for a loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. Mrs B didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. I explain why below.
Barclays had to make Mrs B aware  the policy was optional.  Barclays  told us the policy  was 
sold during a meeting at a branch along with the loan. The policy  was sold over 25 years 
ago, so it isnt surprising that neither Mrs B nor Barclays still have copies of the paperwork 
completed at the time. I also have to take into account that memories  can fade over time. In 
cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have 
happened
Mrs B provided a copy of the credit agreement that shows that Barclayloan Protection was 
added to the loan by a single premium, that it attracted interest and increased the total 
monthly payment.  Barclays  has provided a sample loan application form which  it says was in 
use at the time the policy was sold. I think its more likely than not Mrs B was asked to sign 
an agreement like this to get her loan funds.  On the sample loan agreement  there  is a 
section called Barclayloan Protection and Yes and No boxes in the section to indicate if 
cover is required. So it seems most likely  that Mrs B selected the cover  and thats  why it 
appears on the credit agreement. As there  was a No box, I think its more  likely than not 
Mrs B would have been aware she had a choice  about buying  the PPI policy  and that she 
chose to take it out. 
Mrs B told us she agreed to the cover but had felt under pressure to do so. I have no doubt  
this represents  her best recollection of the events of the sale.  But this is a subjective area 
and I have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably  conclude  that Mrs B only 
took the policy because she was put under pressure to do so.
Barclays say the policy  was sold with a formal  recommendation whilst Mrs B cant  recall 
whether advice was given  or not. Because it places a higher test on Barclays  whilst making 
no difference to the outcome of the complaint,  I will assess the sale as if advice had been 
given. 
Ref: DRN61995572So, Barclays  needed to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs B. And it seems  to have 
been right for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time.  I say this 
because Mrs B was eligible for the policy and she wouldnt  have  been  affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And I think Mrs B would have found the policy  useful. I 
say this because  Mrs B told us her sick pay at work was for at least six months,  but that after 
that time she may have had to rely on her savings  and her husband for support. Mrs B hasnt 
provided details  of the size of the savings she had available to her at the time of the sale.  
But Mrs Bs loan was for a modest amount, and yet she had chosen to protect her savings at 
the time  in that she hadnt wanted  to use them to take a loan for a reduced amount or to 
have had no loan at all. Ive also considered that the PPI policy would have covered the loan 
repayment for the remaining  term of the loan if Mrs B was off work sick and for up to 12 
months per claim if Mrs B lost her job. So, as this would have further protected  any savings 
Mrs B may have had at that time, and as it would  have reduced her reliance  on her husband, 
I think Mrs B would have found  the policy useful.  
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the policy was unaffordable to Mrs B or that she 
had a need to keep  costs  down. Whilst I could understand if Mrs B thought  the policy 
expensive now, given  how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mrs B made a 
successful claim, she could have got back quite a bit more  than she paid for it. 
Mrs B may have got back  only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if Barclays thought  about this when it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs B. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs B 
thought shed repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt  right for her. 
Its possible that the information Barclays gave  Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But for the same  reasons  that I think  the policy was suitable, I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped her from buying it.
I realise Mrs B will be disappointed by the outcome.  But on balance,  for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think Mrs B has lost out because of anything  Barclays  may have done  
wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
I make  no award against them.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6199557