K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society  Limited (trading as 
Scottish Provident)  hasnt  been able to explain why her whole of life assurance policy  
premiums have increased by so much.
background
Mrs B took out a whole  of life assurance  policy in 2003 with Scottish Provident. The policy  
provided a benefit  of £200,000 for a premium of £145.75 per month.
The policy was subject  to reviews. At its first review in September 2013, Scottish Provident 
told Mrs B the premium she was paying  wasnt enough to support the sum assured of 
£200,000. She was given the option to increase the premium to maintain the sum assured, 
or reduce the sum assured if she didnt  want to pay more. Mrs B chose to increase  her 
premium to £203.84 per month.
In September  2018 the policy was reviewed again and Mrs B was told shed need  to 
increase her monthly  premium to £542.58  to keep the sum assured at £200,000. 
Alternatively it said she could keep the same  premium but the sum assured would be 
reduced to £94,901.
Mrs B complained. She wanted  to know  why the premium had increased so significantly.
Scottish Provident told Mrs B the cost of providing life cover  had increased substantially. In 
addition, it said her policy had been set up on a maximum cover basis,  meaning increases 
to premium payments  would most  likely be higher as she got older.
Mrs B didnt think Scottish Providents response  was satisfactory. She said it hadnt provided 
any actuarial evidence to justify the increase so she referred her complaint  to our service.  
Mrs B added that Scottish Provident had increased her premiums  without her consent. 
However when she complained,  it refunded  the extra sum, reduced the sum assured to 
£94,901 and paid her £50 for any inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Mrs Bs concerns may lie with the 
business that sold her the policy if she wasnt expecting  such significant increases to her 
premiums. He also didnt  think  Scottish  Provident  was obliged to provide actuarial evidence 
as this was commercially sensitive. He thought  the policy terms explained  that increases 
would be required in the future  if the premiums didnt support the sum assured. And despite 
the significant increase, the investigator didnt think this was particularly unusual  for this type 
of policy. He also thought Scottish Provident  had dealt with Mrs Bs complaint about  taking 
the increased premium  fairly.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said she wasnt  complaining about the 
adviser who sold her the policy.  Mrs B thought  Scottish  Provident  shouldve provided 
predictions or indications  about how much the policy premiums  could  increase  in the future. 
If it had done so Mrs B said she wouldnt have continued with it.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to make a final 
decision on the matter.
Ref: DRN61441752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B as she feels  very strongly  that Scottish 
Provident hasnt  treated  her fairly. But based  on what Ive seen, I think  it has provided her 
with enough information about  why her premiums  have  increased so significantly.  So, I wont 
be asking it to do any more.
Mrs B has made it clear  that she isnt complaining about the adviser  who sold the policy to 
her  she didnt understand why the investigator  had made any reference to this. But I think  
its important to understand that when the adviser  sold the policy  to Mrs B, it was their 
responsibility to explain  how it worked and the risks involved  with this type of policy 
compared to other  products that provide life cover.
I appreciate that the increase in premiums Mrs B experienced at each policy  review  has 
been significant. But because of the nature of whole of life assurance policies, I dont think  
the increases  are unusual. It may be helpful  if I explain how the premiums Mrs B pays are 
used. In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy  is split two ways.  The first part is 
used to pay for the cost of cover  in that month and the rest is invested.  The cost of the cover 
is not fixed and actually increases with age. The hope is that the investment element will 
grow enough  to fund the shortfall when  the policy reaches the point that the cost of cover 
becomes greater than the premium. Unfortunately, investment performance has been  lower 
than expected since Mrs B took out the policy.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Bs application form and it shows she was given the choice whether 
to apply for cover on a maximum  basis or a standard basis. The application shows Mrs B 
opted for cover on a maximum  cover basis. So, it carried a higher risk of significant 
premium increases when  the policy was reviewed. This is because  most of the initial  
premium was used to pay for life cover, with very little invested. A plan set up in this way is 
much more likely  to require a significant increase in premium  at review. If Mrs B had chosen 
to take the policy  out on a standard basis, she wouldve paid more  for her policy initially,  but 
increases at review  were  likely to be less significant. I dont think it was Scottish  Providents  
responsibility to explain  the risks associated with choosing cover  on a maximum or 
standard basis; that responsibility  lay with the adviser that sold the policy  to Mrs B.
Scottish Providents terms clearly set out that the premium will increase if it isnt sufficient to 
support the sum assured when the policy is reviewed. And the personalised key features 
document produced when the policy was sold in 2003 clearly stated that the premiums  
would likely  increase at the first review in 10 years. I dont think Scottish Provident couldve 
provided any indication  of how much the increase was likely to be at this time.  This is 
because any increase would be dependent on a number of factors, including mortality rates 
and investment performance. So, I dont think it couldve provided  this information at the 
point of sale. I think it was enough  to highlight  the likelihood  of an increase after 10 years.
Scottish Provident explained that at the 2018 review, Mrs Bs premiums had increased 
because the cost of life cover had increased.  I know Mrs B doesnt find this to be a 
satisfactory explanation,  but I dont think there is much more I can add. Scottish  Provident  
has declined  to provide their actuarial  calculations;  as this includes commercially sensitive 
information, I dont  think thats unreasonable. So I cant say Scottish Provident has treated 
Mrs B unfairly by not providing this information.
Ref: DRN61441753my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6144175