K820x#14Complaint
The late Mr C had a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy  for a mortgage with Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). Mrs H and Mr C2 have complained  on behalf of the late 
Mr Cs estate, saying Halifax mis-sold him the policy. 
Background
Mr C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2001. Mr C paid for the PPI with a regular  
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H and Mr C2 disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done that, Ive not found  that Mr Cs policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats  passed, understandably  neither side has all the relevant 
documents from the time.  But Ive thought carefully  about whats most  likely to have 
happened based on the information I have.
Mr Cs mortgage application  didnt have any requirement about taking PPI. According to 
Halifaxs records, Mr C applied for the policy over the phone,  which looks like it wouldve 
been done separately to applying for the mortgage  itself. There  isnt still a record  of the call 
because of all the time thats passed, but Ive not seen  any wider problems with Halifaxs 
sales process from the time. Nor have  I seen any evidence which shows Halifax  didnt  give 
Mr C a fair choice about buying PPI. I can see they then sent Mr C a letter following his 
application for PPI, which included  the insurance certificate and asked him to check  the 
details matched what hed applied for. I havent seen any record that he raised a dispute  at 
the time.  Overall, it seems most likely  that Halifax made Mr C aware he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr C, so it had to check  it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks  like Mr C 
was eligible for cover  and wasnt  affected  by any of the main exclusions or limitations. He 
doesnt appear to have  had any other  significant protection  in case he was off sick or lost his 
job, whereas the PPI wouldve covered  his mortgage payments  for up to 24 months in any 
one claim.  Its worth  bearing  in mind that this mortgage was Mr Cs sole responsibility, and if 
he fell behind on the payments he couldve lost his home. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
really been useful for Mr C in protecting his home and giving some peace  of mind.
Ref: DRN69369422Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr C about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  Mr C wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, and it couldve  really  been useful for him in case  something went wrong. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mr C could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better  information  was likely to have  put him off taking out 
the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I have  not found  that this PPI policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H and Mr C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 August  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6936942