K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
with a credit  card in 2003. She says she doesnt recall ever agreeing  to PPI.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs G has already received some  money  back for the commission  Barclays  received from 
selling her the PPI. However, she still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and 
disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
These events took place  a considerable time ago and I certainly  dont doubt Mrs Gs 
recollections about being mis-sold the PPI are genuinely and honestly held. Records show  
that she actually  applied for her credit card through the post. We know  this because weve  
been sent the postal  application  form she filled out and signed.
We know quite a bit about these types of Barclays credit card sales  from 2003. This is 
because weve seen  quite  a few similar  ones. As a consequence, we know a lot about how 
the sale process normally worked.
We know, for example,  that during this time period, applicants  werent  asked about PPI at 
all on the application  form. We also know that Barclays normal  procedure, for a time, was 
to ask consumers  about  whether or not they wanted PPI with their new card during a 
subsequent phone call. I can see from Barclays records that this is what  happened in this 
case.
Weve also looked  carefully at what  we think consumers  were told over the phone.  
Barclays telephone  advisers typically followed a script during these calls at the time. And 
we have copies  of these which do show that the PPI was only meant  to be added  after the 
permission of the consumer was properly  obtained. 
After over 15 years, we no longer have a recording of the actual call, but given what the 
script says, I think its more likely Mr G agreed  to the policy.
I also think Mrs Gs credit card statements would have showed the PPI being  regularly 
charged on her account over many years. In my experience, these costs  were described on 
the statements  as Payment Protection  Plan. So I think if Mrs G hadnt ever agreed to the 
policy, she would have  wanted to know why these  charges had started to occur.  
Ref: DRN67551212Barclays concedes that it probably recommended the PPI to Mrs G during the call. This 
means it had an additional duty to ensure this type of cover was suitable  for her. Overall,  I 
think it probably was.
This is because Ive looked at Mrs Gs situation.  I think she was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  The PPI policy  
would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed 
needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition to any other  means she had at that time.  I 
also see that the cost was around  79p for every £100 outstanding on the card,  which I think 
would have been affordable for her.
So I think this policy was suitable for her.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mrs G 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. We 
simply dont have that information now.  However, I do think Mrs G would  have probably  
been given some written  and verbal  information  about the policy.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs G but I think the evidence shows she most likely chose the policy  
and would have  known it wasnt something  she needed to have. This means Im not 
upholding her mis-sale complaint.
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mrs G about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  To put that right,  it has already paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Barclays  Bank Plc has already paid her for the commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6755121