K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains Tradex Insurance  Company  Limited unreasonably settled a claim from a 
third party against  his taxi insurance policy.
background
In February 2018  Mr Z was driving his taxi. He was involved  in a collision with a pedestrian.  
Some months later the pedestrian made an injury claim  against  his Tradex  taxi insurance 
policy. Hes unhappy Tradex paid the claim  leading to an increase in the cost of his 
insurance. He says the pedestrian was at fault  not him.
After he complained Tradex said it had made a reasonable  decision  to settle the claim.  It 
said it didnt think it would  be likely to win if the case went to court. Tradex didnt agree to 
Mr Zs legal  expenses cover being  used  in a claim for uninsured losses.  That was because  it 
didnt think it would  have  a good enough  chance of success. 
Our Investigator  thought  Tradex had acted fairly and reasonably.  Mr Z didnt accept  the 
assessment. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Tradex  
do anything differently.
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats  the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted  in line with the policy  terms and made a fair 
and reasonable decision.  Under Mr Zs policy Tradex has the right to defend or settle any 
claim on his behalf. That means it might  make a decision he disagrees with but the policy 
allows it to do so. I can consider whether the decision it made was reasonable. Having done 
so, I think it was. 
Mr Zs unhappy  the claim was settled  as he feels he wasnt  at fault. He says the pedestrian 
was. She walked into his taxi whilst  looking at her phone. He says the police told him she 
was unhurt by the incident.
Tradex have explained its reasons  for settling. It said it didnt agree a photo Mr Z provided 
showed the pedestrian to be at fault.  It said there  was no dash cam footage  to support him. 
Tradex pointed to Mr Z saying he had failed to see the pedestrian  in his statement. Based on 
that it felt it likely a court  would find Mr Z responsible. Considering  that, and the pedestrians  
medical evidence,  I cant  say Tradexs decision was unreasonable.
Mr Zs unhappy  Tradex wouldnt allow a claim under the legal expenses  part of his policy.  
The policy terms require, for an action to be covered,  there to be a reasonable chance  of 
success. Tradex didnt  think  there  was. Based  on what Ive outlined  above, I cant  say that 
was an unreasonable decision.  
Ref: DRN66692422my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Tradex Insurance  Company Limited do 
anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6669242