K820x#14complaint
Miss J says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her two payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss J bought the policies in 1996  at the same  time as taking out two credit cards. This was 
a dual account and Miss J applied for both credit cards and the PPI through  one postal 
application form. 
At the time,  Miss J was employed as a customer  advisor. She has told us she was entitled  to 
at least six months full sick pay, as well as redundancy pay and death in service pay. Miss J 
has said she had a childhood illness around  30 years before the PPI was taken out.  
 
The PPI provided  cover for life, accident,  sickness, and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Miss Js credit card balances  in the 
event of a successful claim. It also wouldve cleared  Miss Js account balance  up to a 
maximum of £10,000 in the event a successful claim on the life element of the policies. At 
the time,  it cost 70p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premiums would 
continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim and would attract  interest. 
Barclays has sent us evidence to show that both credit card accounts had closed before 6 
April 2008.
Miss Js representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Js representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Barclays  wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Barclayss  
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Miss J about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss J and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Miss J received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN66818872Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Miss J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreements themselves concluded before 6 April 2008. That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
Ref: DRN66818873these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Js case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Miss J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Miss J sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss J, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss J suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss J and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Miss J know she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI was optional. Ive seen a copy  of Miss Js credit  
application. On it is a section related to PPI where the box opting for the PPI has been 
ticked. If Miss J hadnt wanted the PPI she couldve ticked the No box, which has been left 
blank. Miss J has signed the form so I think its likely to reflect  what she wanted. Taking 
Ref: DRN66818874everything into account, I think its more likely that Miss J knew the PPI was optional and she 
agreed to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Barclays provide  advice?
 Barclays says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Miss J disagrees and it did provide 
advice. Looking at what happened when Barclays sold Miss J the PPI, Im not persuaded 
that it provided advice.  
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss J. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Miss J to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the PPI, including drawing to her attention and highlighting 
 in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the PPI and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Barclays has provided us with Miss Js application  form  showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve received, 
including the PPI terms and conditions  which I accept  on a balance  of probabilities  
applied to policies  like Miss Js. 
Looking at the information provided to Miss J at the time,  I dont think  Barclays gave Miss J 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policies. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policies as 
providing cover against unemployment, accident, sickness and death.  It also informed Miss J 
that the premiums  would be debited from her account.
The information provided would have given Miss J a broad sense of what  the policies 
covered and she would have known  they werent  free. But it was Barclayss  responsibility to 
draw to Miss Js attention  the important information  i.e. the key information about the 
nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and limitations which  might  be relevant to 
her decision.  
Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the PPI was made clear to Miss J, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that Barclays adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the PPI and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Barclays gave Miss J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including drawing  her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policies and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN66818875In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Js representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Js. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Js representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss J about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss J has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have  on Miss J? To what extent did Miss  J 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold these policies to Miss 
J. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss J 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss J 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Barclays done things properly. 
Miss J says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss J had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policies against  the benefits offered and the potential consequences  if she didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss J chose to take the PPI out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss J thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss J has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss J ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Barclays didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Miss J 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the PPI on and found  acceptable. 
Ref: DRN66818876Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss J thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The PPI excluded claims  relating to any sickness,  disease, condition or injury which 
Miss J knew  about  or which she asked  about or received advice, treatment or 
counselling for from any doctor, during  the 12 months immediately before the start 
date of the policies; 
The PPI limited, and in some situations, excluded  unemployment  cover  if Miss J 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss J be unable  to 
do her own job, or any similar job or any paid work  which  her experience,  education 
or training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss J pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the PPI 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss J from taking out the policies. 
The evidence about Miss Js circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the PPI wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. Although Miss J says she had a medical condition before the 
PPI was taken out and the policies wouldnt have provided cover had she needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better  information about this exclusion would 
have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because the episode  of illness  Miss J had occurred 
over 30 years before the PPI was sold. I dont think she wouldve thought it likely it would 
cause her to take time off work in the future. And I havent seen any evidence  to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the other  significant  exclusions. So I still think she had some  
good reasons  to take the policies out.
The PPI didnt exclude back or mental  health  conditions, or place any additional restrictions 
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss J would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policies  without  first providing  some evidence to 
support that claim.
If Miss J had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her 
job, any similar job or any paid work which her experience, education  or training reasonably  
qualified her to do, it might have played  into her thinking about  what  she would do. And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although given Miss Js circumstances, on 
balance, I still think she would have  been  interested in taking out the cover.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss J would  still have taken out the PPI. The PPI was sufficiently close  to what  
she thought she was getting  and I think the PPI could provide a useful benefit in a difficult  
time, notwithstanding her employment benefits.  And in those circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not that she would have  taken out the PPI in any event.  
Ref: DRN66818877Miss Js representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss J would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss J 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss J believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the PPI. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss J in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the PPI, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policies 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Miss J compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss J thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policies in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Miss J, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1996 when providing information  about insurance policies. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Js representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Barclays negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss J and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN66818878and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss J in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6681887