K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr W says Barclays  Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the application  form Mr W completed at the time. I 
can see that to get the PPI Mr W had to tick a Yes box for it. I note there  was a No 
box that Mr W could have  chosen.  So I think that Mr W would  have understood this 
was something he could say No to. 
Mr W bought the policy at the same time as he took out a credit  card by a postal 
application. So I think its unlikely that Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it 
didnt need to check that the PPI was right for him. But it did need to provide Mr W 
with information  that was sufficient  for him to work  out if it was right for him. Its 
possible the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I dont think that better information would have put Mr W off the 
PPI. I say that because based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that Mr W was most likely eligible  for the policy  and wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And he seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover. I say this as he told us he was entitled to no sick pay and that he had no other 
means he could rely on if anything  went wrong.  This policy  couldve covered 10% of 
Mr Ws monthly balance for up to 12 months  in the vent he was too ill to work,  or if he 
lost his job. So, I think Mr W couldve found this cover  useful.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission  
and profit  share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN68258742Barclays has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr W any extra  interest Mr W 
paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr W the difference 
between what Mr W owes and what he wouldve owed  if the commission  and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr W 8%* simple 
interest if Mr W paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6825874