K821x#15complaint
Mr M says American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited (AMEX), mis-sold him 
credit card payment protection insurance  (PPI) in 1996. 
background
I can see Mr M has already been  paid some money by AMEX. But this is for the commission 
AMEX received from selling him this PPI with his card. 
One of our adjudicators then assessed the mis-sale element of the complaint and said this 
too should be upheld. AMEX disagreed with this and asked  for the complaint to passed to an 
ombudsman, for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in full.
This crux of this case is the type of work Mr M did when he was sold the PPI policy. This is 
because we now know the PPI policys rules made it quite difficult for someone who was 
self-employed to ever make a successful  claim for unemployment. It required, for example, 
that the self-employed person could only claim solely due to your insolvency.
Our adjudicator thought this would  have been a problem for Mr M because of the type and 
nature of work  that he did. And I agree that these rules made it difficult  for self-employed  
people generally,  to make a claim specifically for being unemployed. 
We were told Mr M was self-employed. But AMEX said it would require proof of this and it 
set out examples of the type of documentary proof it would consider, such  as tax returns.  
Because no such proof was forthcoming, it said it didnt agree to upholding Mr Ms mis-sale 
complaint.
Ive thought carefully about this situation  and looked at all the evidence we have. I note Mr M 
is in his mid-80s. I also think  its quite  unrealistic to expect this type of documentation from 
23 years  ago to still be around. I also note that AMEX  itself hadnt appeared to ask Mr M 
what his employment  status was on the application  form it sent to him back  in 1996.  In fact, it 
was a very short form with very little information  on it. So I dont think  its fair to require Mr M 
to produce such comprehensive information, when AMEX cant either.
Ive spoken personally with Mr M who told me he was self-employed  and gave me details of 
the work  he did. I was able to also use records we have of another  matter  relating to Mr M 
where consistent testimony  about his work seems to have been provided.  
The rules  Ive mentioned  above are contained in the policy document  which I doubt very 
much Mr M would have been prompted to read through.  I myself found the relevant section 
difficult to find and so I think Mr M would have too. Taking account of what  the rules said,  I 
Ref: DRN65266862dont think Mr M would have ever wanted the PPI under  these circumstances. I think  hed 
have considered it poor value for money and decided the PPI wasnt for him.
Mr M was entitled to information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading, so he could make an 
informed decision about what  he wanted  to do. He didnt get this and so Im upholding his 
complaint in full.
What AMEX needs to do
AMEX should  put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt ever taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. AMEX  should find out how much Mr M would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it. It should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest 
charged on those  premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by 
the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those  charges.
AMEX  should then refund the difference between what  Mr M owes  and what  he would 
have owed. If Mr M made a successful  claim under the PPI policy,  AMEX can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. It can also take off the 
commission element  it has already paid to Mr M.
B. If when  AMEX works out what Mr M would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr M 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, AMEX should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr M paid.  And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr M 
wouldve owed  AMEX something  on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year. 
C. AMEX  should tell Mr M what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  AMEX  to take off tax from this interest. AMEX must give Mr M a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I direct  American Express  Insurance Services  Europe  Limited  
to pay the Mr M the compensation as above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6526686