K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK plc:
removed his name from a joint account  without his authority; and
allowed the other account holder to withdraw  £80,000 from the account.
background
Mr W and his then wife had a joint account with Santander. Towards the end of 2016,  while  
they were going  through divorce proceedings, the account was closed. On the same day, 
Mrs W withdrew £80,000 from the account.  Mr W says he didnt find out about either of these 
things until some time in 2018. 
When, early this year, Mr W raised his concerns with Santander, it said,  in summary:
the mandate on the account meant  that either party to it could withdraw funds;  
its records of how Mr Ws name  came to be removed from the account were limited,  and 
so it was prepared to pay Mr W £100 in recognition of any inconvenience  caused to 
him. 
Mr W didnt accept the banks explanation  and referred the matter  to this service.  Our 
investigator was broadly  in agreement with Santander, but indicated  that he thought a 
payment of £200  was more appropriate. Santander accepted that, but Mr W still didnt think 
this went far enough and asked that an ombudsman review  things.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am however broadly in agreement with 
the investigator here.
Ill deal first of all with the transfer of funds. Santander says, and I accept, that the joint 
account was set up so that either  account  holder could  give instructions on it. Mr W does not 
appear to have challenged that. He points out though that the transfer was for a significant 
sum and was made at the same time as the instruction to close  the account; that should 
have alerted Santander that something  might be wrong. 
I disagree with Mr W on this. The instruction given  to Santander  was validly  given and it was 
therefore entitled (and quite possibly even obliged) to act on it. It wasnt  for Santander to 
investigate the background to that payment  or to enquire whether the other joint account 
holder knew about  it or agreed  with it, any more than it would have been if Mr W had 
withdrawn money. To do so would have been  inconsistent with the either  to sign mandate  
on the account. 
Santander says its records  of how the account  came to be converted  to a sole account  are 
limited. Mr W says he was unaware for two years that this had happened,  and that he wasnt  
present when it did. Santander  accepts that it made an error in closing the account,  and that 
it didnt obtain  the authority of both parties as it should have  done.  Whilst it initially offered 
Mr W £100 in recognition of that, it agreed with the investigators assessment that £200 
would be a fair offer. The issue that I have  to decide is therefore whether £200 is a fair offer 
or whether Santander should  increase it. 
Ref: DRN64991522I note that Mr W didnt  know  for some time that his name had been removed from the 
account. That indicates to me that he wasnt expecting to use it, and didnt  attempt to do so 
for more than two years. Mr W hasnt suggested  that hes lost out financially as a result  of no 
longer having  access  to the account. But, since Mrs W was able to operate the account  in 
any event, it seems most unlikely. And if shes taken money to which  he believes hes 
entitled, its not because of anything  Santander has done or not done. 
In the circumstances, I believe the offer of £200 is reasonable. I will however make a formal  
award, so that its binding  on the parties if Mr W decides to accept it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of his complaint, Santander UK plc should  
pay Mr W £200 (to include anything already paid).  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
31 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6499152