K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about the way they have  been treated by Nationwide 
Building Society. They say they have been  treated  unfairly and reasonable adjustments 
havent been made. 
background
Following an error  from one of their utility providers where a £3000 payment was taken 
twice, Mr and Mrs J contacted Nationwide in an attempt to recover one of these payments. 
One of the payments had been through a cheque and Mr J was made aware that it was not 
possible to cancel the cheque, as it had already been cashed  by the utility provider.            
Mr and Mrs J requested  a copy of the cheque from Nationwide.  
A few days  later Mr J contacted the Nationwide branch where he had made the request, to 
chase the copy  of the cheque. Mr J spoke to an employee of the branch and a manager. The 
manager says that she warned Mr J about his verbal and aggressive behaviour and 
following the termination of the call, an incident  report was completed. 
Mr J was then written  to by a Nationwide  Local Director. He was told that following the recent  
incident, any further unacceptable behaviour could result in their account  being closed 
without further  notice. 
Mr J was unhappy with this letter and raised  a complaint with Nationwide. He said he found  
the letter threatening and that his disability was not taken into consideration. Nationwide 
responded that they felt the letter was an appropriate course  of action. They  have also said 
that since being made aware of Mr Js disability they have  attempted  to make  reasonable 
adjustments. They did compensate Mr and Mrs J £50 for one of their telephone associates 
not being aware of the previous actions of the branch and the impact this had. 
Mr and Mrs J brought  their complaint to us. Our investigator felt that Nationwide  could have  
done more to make staff aware sooner of any requirements and reasonable adjustments  to 
help Mr J. She felt that an apology  should  be given but, Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the frustration started for Mr and Mrs J when they realised they had made 
an overpayment to one of their utility  providers. They were contacting Nationwide  to try and 
rectify the situation  and so I have firstly  looked  at whether Nationwide  could have done 
anything more at this time and whether the information they gave them was correct.  As the 
cheque had already been cashed in, they were not able to cancel it and refund the amount 
to Mr and Mr Js account. 
Ref: DRN64017082Mr and Mrs J requested  a copy of the cheque from Nationwide as they attempted  to recover 
the overpayment  from their utility provider.  I am satisfied that this was requested and 
actioned promptly and fairly by Nationwide. 
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with how they were  treated at this time and subsequently by 
branch staff,  and in particular the letter they received from the Nationwide  Local Director.   
Mr J has said that he felt discriminated  against  as he was behaving in a certain way due to 
his disability and that he had made Nationwide aware of this. I have looked at whether 
Nationwide have treated Mr and Mrs J fairly and reasonably. 
Mr J has confirmed that he did not intend to come across in a threatening or abusive way to 
staff. Nationwide have  acknowledged that they were aware  of Mr Js disability prior to this. I 
agree with the investigator that if they had acted  fairly and reasonably  in light of what  they 
knew, other branch  staff could have been  made  aware. The letter  sent to Mr J from the 
Nationwide Local Director might not have needed to be sent and Mr J has said this caused 
him significant upset,  which Nationwide have  now apologised  for. 
However, I think this is sufficient and I wont be asking them to do anything further. There 
have been subsequent issues in branch  after Mr J was told he could deal solely  with the 
branch manager.  So whilst the letter being  sent when it was might have been avoided,  I 
cannot conclude  that earlier adjustments would have avoided  this upset eventually for Mr J.  
Nationwide have a responsibility to take reasonable steps to remove  barriers that people 
face as a result of their disability, so that, as far as possible, people with a disability dont 
receive a lesser level of service. This is a duty to make reasonable adjustments.  Nationwide  
have also confirmed that they can provide two specific points of contact  for Mr J, who are 
aware of his disability,  at another convenient branch for him. I think this is a reasonable 
response and outcome  to this complaint.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed by this decision, I wont  be asking 
Nationwide to do anything  further  here. They have apologised they did not do more sooner 
and have put steps in place to support Mr J further  going forward. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6401708