K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  declined her claim against her private  
medical insurance policy in relation to treatment  for her infant daughter,  who I will refer to as 
G.
background
In March 2018, Mrs P made a claim against her private medical insurance policy for cranial 
osteopathy for the treatment of Gs torticollis.  Torticollis is a condition in which  muscles of 
the neck cause  twisting of the head to the side.
AXA PPP refused the claim. It said that it doesnt  pay for treatment which hasnt been 
established as being effective or which is experimental.  It also said that it didnt have the 
medical information it needed. 
Mrs P got further information for AXA PPP. In April 2018, G became a beneficiary of an 
employers group private medical insurance  policy. Mrs P made a claim under that cover and 
AXA PPP authorised a number of sessions  of osteopathic treatment for G. 
Mrs P complains that AXA PPP paid for her daughters  osteopathic treatment under her 
group private medical insurance  policy  but not her private medical  insurance  policy.  She 
says that torticollis isnt an excluded condition. Mrs P says that Gs paediatrician and GP 
referred her to the osteopath. She says that both her private medical insurance policy  and 
her group private medical policy cover  complimentary  practitioners fees.  
Mrs P says that policy was mis-sold to her as providing the best cover.  She complains about 
how AXA PPP handled  her claim and has concerns about how it handles personal  
information. 
Mrs P says that AXA PPP should  cover  Gs osteopathic treatment from March  to April 2018. 
She also wants it to review its complaints handling  and ensure that customers are treated 
fairly by appropriately trained staff. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He said that both the private and 
group policy cover established  medical  treatments and dont cover treatments that are 
experimental or which  have not been established as being effective. The investigator said 
that cranial osteopathy isnt currently an established  treatment. So, AXA PPP hadnt acted 
unfairly in refusing the claim. He said that when AXA PPP authorised  osteopathy for G it did 
so in error,  which it is willing to honour, subject  to the other  terms of the policy.  
The investigator said that he wasnt able to investigate whether the policy  was mis-sold  to 
Mrs P, as she hadnt raised  this with the business  who sold her the policy. 
Ref: DRN62436942Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. She said that:
AXA PPP gave her different reasons for declining her claim:  on one occasion, it 
said it doesnt pay for treatment which hasnt been established as effective or 
which is experimental and on another occasion, it said it didnt  have the medical 
information it needed. 
She got a medical report as AXA PPP said that it needed further  information.
She doubts that AXA PPP made a mistake  in authorising the treatment. She 
wants to know if it covered osteopathic treatment for torticollis  for anyone else in 
the last five years, as it may be that AXA PPP treats  beneficiaries of corporate  
group policies more favourably than it treats individuals. 
Exclusions should be made clear. 
The treatment isnt experimental or not established: it was effective for G. 
She had found  an article supporting  osteopathic treatment for torticollis. 
There were further exchanges  between the investigator and Mrs P, which I wont  set out 
here. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint  was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs P has very strong feelings  about this matter. Shes provided detailed  
submissions to support  the complaint, which I have read and considered. However,  I trust 
that she will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central  
issues, that is, whether  AXA PPP acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ps claim. 
The rules, which set out what we can look into, dont include complaint handling by a 
business. So, I cant consider the part of Mrs Ps complaint about how AXA PPP handled her 
complaint. And it isnt for this service to decide  if a business has breached  data protection  
laws. Mrs P can contact the Information  Commissioners Office  (ICO)  if shes concerned  
about the way AXA PPP handled  her personal information. 
the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of Gs cover. Mrs Ps private medical  insurance  
policy and the group private medical  insurance policy  both include the following:
[Your] [The]  plan covers  you for established medical treatments .
There is no cover for any treatment or procedure that is experimental  or that has not been 
established as being effective.
We will also pay for treatment  not listed in our Schedule of Procedures and Fees if, before 
the treatment begins, it is established  that the treatment  is recognised as appropriate by an 
authoritative medical  body. This means procedures and practices must have undergone 
appropriate clinical trial and assessment, and be sufficiently evidence in published  medical 
journals.
Ref: DRN62436943What is not covered?
We will not pay for treatment that has not been  established as being  effective or which  is 
experimental.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that AXA PPP has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint because I dont  think that AXA PPP treated her unfairly. 
I say that because: 
Both policies cover  established  medical  treatment or treatment recognised as 
appropriate by an authoritative medical body, that is, which  have undergone clinical  
trial and assessment and which are sufficiently evidenced in published medical  
journals. 
2004 guidance by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence  (NICE)  says 
that standard treatment for cervical dystonia  the overarching condition  that includes 
torticollis - includes  physiotherapy, drugs  to reduce spasm, injections of botulinum  
toxin and surgery. It doesnt include cranial osteopathy.
A 2016 systematic review of the scientific literature about the efficacy of cranial 
osteopathy published in a medical journal at 
https://www.evidence.nhs.uk/search?q+Cranial+osteopathy concluded that strong 
evidence on the efficacy of cranial  osteopathy  is almost  non-existent.   
Ive noted  Mrs Ps reference  to a medical journal 
https://www.ipeds.com/article/S0022-3476r05)00523-8/fulltext. Thats a letter sent to 
the editor in 2014  about the effectiveness  of cranial osteopathy in treating torticollis. It 
doesnt show that cranial osteopathy has undergone  appropriate  clinical  trial and 
assessment. 
I can quite understand  that Mrs P wanted her daughter to have osteopathic treatment 
and that she found  it effective.  But I have  to decide  if AXA PPP acted unfairly in 
declining the claim under  the terms of the policy. I havent  seen any evidence  to 
show that cranial osteopathy  is an established medical treatment for torticollis or 
recognised as an appropriate  treatment  by an authoritative medical  body. So, I dont 
think that AXA PPP was wrong  to decline Mrs Ps claim. 
AXA PPP could have been clearer about its reasons for refusing Mrs Ps claim and 
has already apologised for its delay in responding to Mrs P. I dont think  that those 
issues alter the outcome  here. 
AXA PPP mistakenly authorised treatment for cranial osteopathy under the group 
private medical insurance and its continuing  to honour that, subject to the group 
policy terms and conditions. I think thats fair. 
Mrs P has enquired about what AXA PPP may have done in other cases. I dont have 
power to compel  AXA PPP to disclose that information. I need to decide whether 
AXA PPP did anything wrong  in declining Mrs Ps claim. For the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think it did. 
Ref: DRN62436944my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6243694