K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled his car insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes their agents.
background
Mr C took out car insurance with AXA in August 2017. In November 2017,  Mr C was
involved in an accident. He said a bus struck one of his wing mirrors causing damage. He
also said that the incident was witnessed  by a police officer. Mr C exchanged details with the
bus driver  and reported the accident to AXA.
Mr C asked AXA to contact the police to get information about  the accident  from them  and to
get CCTV from the bus. AXA said that Mr C told them he didnt want  his car repaired until
the other driver had accepted liability for the accident. AXA said they asked for CCTV but
were told there wasnt any. And they asked the police for an incident  report but the police
hadnt provided it. AXA said that as the other driver disputed  liability, there wasnt  any proof
that the other driver  caused the damage  to Mr Cs car.
When Mr Cs policy came to renew with AXA in August  2018,  his premium increased  by
around £200.
Mr C complained. He said AXA had failed to investigate the accident properly; they failed to
gather vital evidence;  his car wasnt fixed;  the matter had been going on for a long time; he
suffered distress and inconvenience; and that his premium increase was unfair.
AXA didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Mr C didn't  think that was fair so he brought his
complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He said that
although AXA had asked for the CCTV and police report, they could have been more
proactive when requesting them and chasing  them up. AXA then looked into the cost of the
renewal premium. They said that when it was calculated in July 2018,  Mr Cs no claims
bonus (NCB)  years  should  have been 11 and not 10 years, and the outstanding accident
should have been recorded  as a non-fault claim. AXA therefore  said the renewal premium
should have cost £140.60 less. Our adjudicator recommended that AXA refund that amount 
to Mr C and pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that he
experienced.
But Mr C was still unhappy  as he said his original claim that the other driver caused  damage
to his car hadnt  been resolved. And his car was still damaged. He said to resolve his
complaint he wanted AXA to remove any record of the accident  from his driving record  as
though it had never happened. He also wanted to cancel his policy  mid-term without penalty.
Our adjudicator didnt  think it would be fair to recommend that. As Mr C didnt agree with our
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 4 July 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
the investigation into the accident
Ref: DRN67473002Mr C reported the accident to AXA straightaway;  he gave an account of what 
happened; he gave the other drivers details; he told AXA there was potential CCTV 
and asked them to get a copy; he also told them that a police officer  had witnessed 
the accident and asked  AXA to contact the police  for a report;  and he later gave a 
further detailed  account to AXA with sketches.
AXA immediately wrote to the bus company that owns the bus that Mr C said caused 
the accident. AXA asked them if they accepted  liability for the accident, they didnt. I 
can see that AXA did ask for any CCTV at the end of March  2018, but was told there 
wasnt any. I can also see that AXA asked the police for a report at the end of March 
2018. They  followed up that request with a further  email to the police in early  July 
2017.
Where CCTV  is in issue, time is of the essence. AXA asked for CCTV more  than four
months after the accident. I think they delayed in asking for it. Most companies  dont 
keep CCTV beyond 28 days. But I note that AXA have said that the bus company 
told them  there was no recording  made  at the time. That would mean that had AXA 
asked immediately after the accident  it would  have made no difference  as there was 
no recording. But AXA wouldnt have known  that until they had asked.  I think  the 
delay of more  than four months in asking doesnt  reflect well on AXAs  investigation.
Likewise, it was over four months after the accident  that AXA asked the police for a 
report. AXA waited  almost three months before following up that request. As far as 
Im aware, AXA never received the police report. While I accept the police report, like 
the CCTV, is not within AXAs control  as it is material owned by a third party, I still 
think AXA could have  done more. They should  have  contacted the police  much  
sooner than they did and persisted more with their follow up contact. In relation to the 
police report, AXA said in their final response letter to Mr C: it is doubtful that this 
[the police  report] would be of any value as this would not prove the third party  bus 
caused any damage. The third party are stating that no collision occurred and we 
have been unable to obtain any proof  that they are responsible for any damage  to 
your vehicle. I disagree with AXA. I have seen an email from a police officer to Mr C, 
which I understand he also provided to AXA. In that email the officer  said:  If the 
insurance company  require any information from me, they can request this through  
our disclosure unit and I can provide a statement on the incident. Mr C said that the 
police officer witnessed the accident  and that he (Mr C) discussed the matter with the 
officer. So Mr C has said that the officer  told him he had witnessed the bus hit Mr Cs 
car. And its clear from the officers email  that he was willing to provide a statement. 
So its quite  possible that a statement from the officer, or a police report, would have 
confirmed that there was an accident  and that the bus was at fault. If AXA had 
obtained such information and provided  it to the other  drivers  employer or insurer,  I 
think its possible that they (the other  drivers employer or insurer) would have 
accepted responsibility and paid to have Mr Cs car repaired.
So I dont  think AXA have acted  reasonably  as they could have done more to 
investigate the accident which could have  resulted  in a favourable  outcome for Mr C. 
I intend to require AXA to cover the cost of the damage to his wing mirror. As there is 
no estimate of the cost of repair (or replacement) of the wing mirror, I have set the 
compensation I intend to award  Mr C (see below) for the distress and inconvenience 
he experienced at a level that takes account  of the damage to his car.
Ref: DRN67473003the claim status and premium increase
I understand that when Mr C reported  the accident  to AXA he didnt make a claim on 
his policy. He wanted AXA to first investigate and get the other driver to admit  liability 
and pay for the damage. Had Mr C claimed  on his policy, he would  have had to pay 
his policy  excess and AXA would have  had his car repaired. If that had happened,  
AXA would have  tried to recover their outlay (the costs they spent on fixing  Mr Cs 
car and any other related  expenses, such as the cost of a courtesy  car) from the 
other drivers  employer  or insurer. And if AXA were unsuccessful in recovering their 
outlay, the claim would have been  recorded as a fault claim against Mr Cs 
insurance record. I should explain that a fault claim doesnt only mean  that the 
policyholder was at fault for an accident, but it also means that an insurer  paid out on 
a claim but couldnt  recover their outlay from another  party.  Ill illustrate the point  with 
a hypothetical  example:  car A is lawfully parked and unattended; car B crashes into 
car A causing  it damage; car B leaves the scene without leaving their insurance 
details; car A is repaired by its owners  own insurer; car As insurer  isnt able to 
recover their outlay  from another party; so car As insurer records  the claim as a 
fault claim against car As owners  insurance record.  Having a fault claim on their 
record can be detrimental to a policyholder as it often leads to higher premiums.
In Mr Cs case, although he didnt claim on his policy he did report it to AXA. And at 
that time AXA couldnt have known how the matter  was eventually going to be 
concluded. Anyone of the following potential outcomes was possible:
Mr C claimed  on his own policy and AXA were unsuccessful in recovering their 
outlay from the other party. This would have resulted in a fault claim being  
recorded against Mr Cs record.
Mr C claimed  on his own policy and AXA were successful in recovering their 
outlay from the other party. This would have resulted in a non-fault claim being 
recorded against Mr Cs record.
Mr C didnt make a claim on his own policy and the other  party paid to have his 
car repaired, or Mr C decided to not pursue the matter. This would have resulted 
in the accident being recorded as notification  only on Mr Cs record.
But, until Mr Cs claim concluded in one of the three mentioned ways it was classed 
as an open claim. And its normal insurance  industry practice to treat open claims 
as fault claims for the purposes of calculating premiums, which is what  I understand 
AXA did in Mr Cs case when his policy renewed  in 2018. Thats because insurers  
work on a worst case scenario basis. So they treat an open claim as though it will 
conclude as a fault claim  and they calculate the premium on that basis.  Fault  claims 
usually attract a higher premium  than non-fault claims. If say after two years the 
claim concludes  as non-fault, the insurer will then recalculate the premium 
retrospectively on the basis of the claim being  non-fault and give the policyholder a 
refund if one is due. If on the other  hand the insurer treated  the open claim as non-
fault and the claim  concluded as being fault two years later, it would be difficult  for
the insurer to recover  any additional premium. So I think AXA treating the open claim 
as a fault claim on renewal was reasonable.
Again, because an insurer cant know how a claim will eventually  conclude, for the 
purposes of renewal, its common practice for them to not award  a NCB year for the 
year in which the accident happened.  But, if at a later date, the claim concludes in 
Ref: DRN67473004the policyholders favour, we would expect  the insurer  to reinstate the NCB year and 
to recalculate the premium retrospectively and issue a refund if one is due.
AXA have told us that at the 2018  renewal they should have allowed Mr Cs NCB 
year which would have  meant he would have  had 11 years NCB  and not 10. They  
also said they should have treated the open claim as non-fault and not as fault. As a 
result, they said the renewal premium offered should have been £140.60 less. I 
therefore intend to require  AXA to refund  that amount to Mr C together  with simple  
interest at 8% a year from the date Mr C paid the renewal premium until the date he 
is refunded.
Given my comments  above about  AXAs investigation into the accident and given this 
matter has now been ongoing for almost two years, and considering  the distress and 
inconvenience Mr C has experienced, I intend  to require AXA to compensate  Mr C 
with £250. This amount takes  into account  the distress and inconvenience,  and also 
accounts for the cost of replacing the cars wing mirror. I think  an award of this nature 
which gives the parties a clean  break, as opposed  to asking Mr C to get estimates  of 
the repair costs, is more desirable and likely  to bring  the matter to a quicker 
conclusion.
That leaves the question of the status  of Mr Cs claim. As I understand it he hasnt 
withdrawn it. And he can still, if he wants to, make a claim  on his policy for the 
damage. But, given I understand the cost of replacing his wing mirror is substantially 
below the cost of the excess he would have to pay if he made a claim,  and given my 
intended award takes account of the cost of replacing the wing mirror,  I would ask Mr 
C if he accepts my proposed resolution to confirm he wont  make a claim on his 
policy for the damage to his wing mirror. Because by accepting  my decision he would 
be accepting that AXA, once they pay the compensation Ive suggested, have made 
good the damage to his car without him having  to claim on his policy  and thereby 
avoid getting a fault claim on his record.
It follows that if my proposed resolution is agreed, AXA should record  the accident  as
notification only. I know Mr C would prefer that no record be made at all. But AXA, 
like all insurers, have  an obligation to record incidents to reflect  a policyholders 
history accurately. Once this happens,  AXA should recalculate Mr Cs 2018 renewal 
premium on the basis of their being a notification only incident.  Thats  because  the 
refund they have  agreed to make  is on the basis of the accident  being non-fault.  It 
may or may not be the case that a notification only incident reduces the 2018 
renewal premium. If it does and there is a refund to be made, I intend to require AXA 
to pay the refund to Mr C together with simple interest at 8% a year from the date he 
paid the renewal premium  until the date of refund. I should clarify that the £140.60 
AXA have agreed  to refund means the renewal policy has been  calculated on a non-
fault claim basis. Therefore the new calculation on a notification only basis should  be 
compared against the non-fault  claim calculation to see if there is a difference and if 
a refund due.
Finally, Im aware  that Mr C wanted  to cancel  his policy with AXA without  penalty.  I
understand his policy  expires at the end of July 2019, which  is likely to be around the 
time I issue my final decision.  I apologise to Mr C that this complaint couldnt  be 
concluded sooner.  But, given my provisional  findings, even had there been several 
more months left to run on his policy, I dont think it would have been fair to ask AXA 
to let Mr C cancel the policy without them asking him to pay the cancellation  fee. 
Ref: DRN67473005Thats because my proposed resolution  is intended  to put Mr C back  into the position 
he would  have been in had no mistakes  been made. And, despite  the problems Mr C 
has experienced, he has had the benefit  of insurance cover under his policy.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Both Mr C and AXA accepted  my 
provisional findings.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require AXA Insurance  UK 
Plc to:
Refund Mr C £140.60 together with simple interest at 8% a year from the date he 
paid the renewal premium until the refund is made.1
AXA should amend all internal and external database records  to sow the accident as 
notification only. Mr C has confirmed that he wont make a claim on his policy  for 
the 2017 accident.
Recalculate the 2018 renewal premium  on the basis  that Mr C had a notification only 
incident. If any refund is due to Mr C as a result of that recalculation, it should  be paid 
together with simple  interest at 8% a year from the date he paid the renewal premium 
until the refund is made.
Pay Mr C £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr C has accepted my final
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019. 
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
1 If AXA consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr C how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6747300