K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out a mortgage in August 2000.  
Around four years later, in September 2004, he took out PPI. The policy  protected his 
mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  Mr C paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr C mainly says that the PPI wasnt something he ever wanted, it wasnt  suitable for him 
and he didnt need it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case. Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
Santander told us that Mr C took out the PPI over the phone.  Santander couldnt provide any 
paperwork from the sale. So Ive seen nothing signed by Mr C from when he was sold PPI. 
But its not surprising,  given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still 
available. I wouldnt expect Santander or Mr C to have kept this.   
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr C to remember exactly what was discussed when he 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means that what he says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I have to decide what I think is most  likely 
given the available information  and the wider circumstances.
Theres no call recording available  now. But, based on what  this service  knows  about the 
way Santander  sold PPI over the phone around  this time, Ive no reason to think  that 
Santander wouldnt have  explained to Mr C that PPI was optional. And Ive also taken into 
account that his mortgage  had been running without PPI for some  years.  So I think  Mr C 
wouldve been aware that it was up to him to say if he wanted  to have PPI.
Mr Cs mortgage was a major financial commitment, and his home  wouldve been  at risk if 
his mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Mr C mightve felt PPI 
was useful to have at the time  although its completely understandable that he mightve 
forgotten this now. 
On balance, I think its likely that during the call Mr C was persuaded of the benefits that the 
policy offered him. And PPI was added to Mr Cs account when he chose to buy it. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr C and it seems to have been  right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  
Ref: DRN67428892The policy wouldve paid out a benefit  for up to 12 months in the event of a successful 
accident or sickness claim  and repeat  claims  were possible providing Mr C with long term 
cover for his mortgage.  The policy covered  his mortgage repayments for longer than Mr C 
told us he wouldve received full sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work   and it 
wouldve been paid in addition to any work benefits  Mr C mightve got. So I think the policy 
couldve provided a helpful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr C mightve  had extra 
costs as a result of being off work because of illness or disability. 
The policy couldve  also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr C lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Relying on family and friends to help out in the event  of money  problems isnt as dependable 
as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think PPI was suitable for Mr C.
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Mr C 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those. So I dont think  its likely this 
information wouldve  made any difference to his decision  to take out the policy.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr C during the phone call. The cost of the 
policy was shown in the welcome  letter sent to him and he couldve queried it then if he 
decided this wasnt something he wanted  to pay for. But, from what  Ive seen, it doesnt look 
as if that happened. 
Mr C hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And he wouldve  
signed an instruction  form to his bank to cover  the cost. So it seems he was happy at the 
time to pay for PPI. 
And as he was paying for it monthly, he could cancel it at any time without further cost, if his 
circumstances changed or he no longer wanted it.
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr C still wouldve  decided to buy the policy even  if hed been better  informed as it 
gave him useful protection in his particular situation.  
Ive taken into account that Mr C says he wouldve  claimed on the policy if hed known he 
had it. But that doesnt mean that PPI must  have been mis-sold when he took it out and it 
isnt a reason  for me to uphold his complaint. 
Mr C may wish to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared  to accept and consider 
a retrospective  claim.
Ref: DRN67428893my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6742889