K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement  with RCI Financial 
Services Limited (RCI) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mrs C has been represented by her husband  throughout this process. For ease, and 
because Mrs C is the person who took out the finance agreement with RCI, I will refer to 
Mrs C in this decision.
Mrs C took receipt of a new car in October  2013. She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI. In October 2017,  when the final balloon  payment was due, the 
agreement was modified so the final balloon payment could be paid over an extended period.
In February 2019  the turbo  failed  on Mrs Cs car and as the warranty had expired by then 
she asked RCI to pay for the repairs. They  didnt  agree to do so as they explained  that they 
were only responsible for the quality of the car at the point it was supplied and they werent 
responsible for issues that developed subsequently.
So Mrs C referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. He 
noted that the turbo charger had failed after the car had completed  over 64,000 miles and 
more than five years  after the agreement was originally put in place. So he didnt think  there 
was evidence the turbo charger was faulty at the point the car was supplied to Mrs C and he 
didnt therefore  think it fair to ask RCI to take any further action.
He also considered some other issues Mrs C raised  in which  she mentioned  concerns about  the 
fuel consumption of the car and some  repairs shed needed to complete to the airbag, exhaust  
air flap and a failed  LED.  He didnt  think the fuel consumption was evidence  of the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality  as he explained fuel consumption would vary depending  on a number of 
factors. He noted  the other issues Mrs C complained of but without evidence  of the date and 
nature of those repairs he didnt think  it would  be fair to ask RCI to take any further  action.
Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicator  so she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs C so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN69351082Mrs C acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then RCI, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs C. The car 
here was brand new so I wouldnt expect it to have  any faults.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask RCI to put this right. 
But RCIs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
When the turbo charger  failed the car had already completed 64,000  miles and was over five 
years old. I think  if the turbo  charger  was faulty when the car was supplied it would not have 
lasted five years and 64,000 miles.  So I dont  think it would be fair to hold RCI accountable 
for the costs of repair.
Ive considered that the car was supplied in October  2013 and that the new agreement was 
simply a modification of the original agreement so that the balloon repayment could be 
extended. Even if Im wrong about that, and the car could be considered to be supplied in 
2017 when the modification for the agreement was formed, I dont  think theres evidence the 
turbo fault was present then either. It was well over a year before the turbo failed and for the 
same reasons, I think a fault would have shown  earlier if it was there  or developing in 2017. 
Mrs C has also expressed concerns about the fuel consumption of the car but again I dont think 
theres evidence  of anything wrong  with the vehicle. Fuel consumption will, I think  its 
reasonable to suggest, vary depending  on a number of factors including road conditions; driving 
distances and driving style. I dont think theres  been  sufficient  evidence  provided to suggest  
that a pre existing fault with the car was the cause of the unsatisfactory  fuel consumption.
Mrs C has also mentioned  other faults  that have developed  on her car. Ive detailed these in 
the background. Im not persuaded, on the evidence Mrs C has provided, that those 
problems were present  or developing at the point the car was supplied either. I think  a 
consumer could expect  a few things to go wrong with a car through  normal wear and tear if it 
had completed this level of mileage  and was over five years  old.
So overall, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to ask RCI to take any further action.
Ref: DRN69351083my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6935108