K822xcomplaint
Mr U complains that three hire purchase  agreements that he entered  into with Black  Horse 
Limited were  unaffordable for him and that it didnt do enough to check  that they were 
affordable.  
background
Mr U entered into three hire purchase agreements with Black Horse in September  2018  
two on the same day at the beginning of September and the third nine days  later.  A used car 
was supplied to him under  each agreement. He agreed to make 60 monthly  payments  of 
£781.53, £359.02 and £612.53 under  the agreements.
He complained to Black  Horse in November 2018  that the agreements were  unaffordable for 
him and that it hadnt checked  that they were  affordable. He wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. She said that 
Black Horse  had asked about  Mr Us income and expenditure and carried  out checks  to 
verify the information  that hed supplied  and had found no concerns with those credit checks. 
She was satisfied that Black Horse had carried  out proportionate checks  before agreeing to 
lend Mr U the money and the dealer had said that there were no apparent signs  which would 
make them question Mr Us capabilities in making  any financial decisions. So she concluded 
that she was unable to uphold his complaint  about  the first two agreements.
But she thought  that the dealer  and Black Horse had a duty of care in assessing Mr Us third 
application and the need for a third agreement in a short space of time. And she thought that 
more care shouldve  been taken when  processing  that application. So she recommended 
that the third agreement  be unwound.
Black Horse  has accepted  the investigators recommendations and has agreed to unwind 
the third agreement with nothing  further owed, to refund the deposit of £5,000  that Mr U paid 
(with interest) and to remove any adverse information from his credit file in relation to that 
agreement.
Mr U has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has provided  
payroll records for his company and information about his (and his wifes) bank accounts 
which he says demonstrate his financial inability to repay car loans of nearly £2,000  each 
month. And he says,  in summary, that:
his credit file shows that various credit checks were undertaken in August and 
September 2018 but because he didnt meet the lender's lending criteria he was 
refused car loans;
no credit  checks  were  undertaken  by Black Horse;
his annual income was only £5,000;
he bought  the first two cars for his friends  and the third car for his wife; 
he was suffering mental  health issues and wasnt in the right frame  of mind at the 
time to take out car loans (and hes provided  a letter  from his pastor in support of 
this); and
when he complained to Black  Horse it said that his only option was to sell the cars 
but it didnt help him with that.
my findings
Ref: DRN69829242Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A credit provider should make proportionate checks about the affordability of any credit 
before providing  that credit to a customer. What  is proportionate will depend on the 
circumstances at that time.
Black Horse  has provided evidence to show that Mr U told the dealer that his income was 
more than £80,000 a year and that he had monthly  outgoings of about £850. It has also 
provided evidence  to show that it completed  credit checks which showed that Mr U was 
paying £712 each month towards his regular financial commitments and that hed received a 
payment of £3,906 into his personal bank account  (which verified  the income information 
that Mr U had provided). 
I consider that the income and expenditure information that had been provided  by Mr U, 
which was verified by the credit checks that Black  Horse had completed,  were  proportionate 
checks for the credit that it was to provide  to Mr U under  the first two agreements. And I 
dont consider that there was any requirement  in these circumstances for Black Horse  to 
obtain any further information about Mr Us financial situation or to ask him to provide  it with 
copies of his bank statements. I consider that it was fair and reasonable, on the basis  of 
those proportionate checks, for it to conclude  that the credit  was affordable  for Mr U and to 
make the decision to provide the credit  to him.
Mr U has described his mental health  issues and hes provided a letter from his pastor to 
support what he says. I sympathise with Mr U for those  issues. But Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the dealer,  or Black Horse, was aware  of those issues  
in September  2018 or that Black Horse  shouldnt have provided credit  to him at that time 
because of his mental  health issues.
For these reasons Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that the first two 
credit agreements werent affordable for Mr U or that Black Horse shouldnt  have provided 
the credit  to him. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to require Black Horse  
to cancel those  agreements or to take any other action about them.
Black Horse  has accepted  the investigators recommendations about the third agreement. 
And I find that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for it to cancel that 
agreement, refund the deposit  of £5,000 that Mr U paid for the third car (with  interest) and to 
remove any information about that agreement  from his credit file. 
In its final response letter  that Black  Horse sent to Mr U in January 2019 it said that it was 
unable to cancel  the agreements and it listed three  options that Mr U might wish to consider: 
speaking to the dealer about returning the cars; selling the cars and settling the agreements; 
and voluntarily terminating the agreements.
A lender is required to respond to a customers financial difficulties both positively and 
sympathetically. So Black Horse is required to respond to any financial difficulties that Mr U 
is suffering positively and sympathetically.
Ref: DRN69829243my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint in part. And I 
order Black  Horse Limited to:
1.End the third hire purchase  agreement  and arrange for the third car to be collected 
from Mr U  both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr U the deposit  of £5,000 that he paid for the third car.
3.Pay interest on that deposit at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4.Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the third agreement is recorded on Mr Us 
credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Black Horse to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 3 above. Black Horse  must  give Mr U a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6982924