K821x#15complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the work done by British  Gas Services Limited  under his homecare 
boiler policy for a property  he rents  out to tenants.
background
Mr J made  a claim to BG but after it had done  the repairs Mr J said it failed to carry out all 
the required work. BG said Mr J could  provide  it with an invoice and it would pay for the work 
that was covered by the policy. Mr J did employ  a contractor to do the work but BG wouldnt 
pay all the costs he thought it should. Unhappy with this Mr J brought his complaint to this 
service.
BG accepted that some errors were made and offered Mr J £60 for the delays and the 
inconvenience he suffered. It said the impact on Mr J was minor as he didnt live at the 
property. BG said that its engineer unblocked  the drains and restored flow as required by the 
policy. It said anything after that wasnt covered.  It said cleaning and descaling  of pipes was 
excluded. It also said it didnt get another chance to put any issues  with the blockage right 
itself.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Mr J had told BG straight after the works 
that the unblocking hadnt been successful.  She said it did have a chance to put it right. Our 
investigator said BG should pay the costs for unblocking the pipes  in line with the policy 
limits. She said it needed to add 8% simple  interest  on the outstanding amount from the date 
of invoice to the date of settlement. Due to the distress and inconvenience  caused our 
investigator said BG should pay Mr G £150  compensation.  BG didnt accept  this and asked 
for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It looks from the records that Ive seen  that Mr J let BG know  that the problems with the 
plumbing work hadnt been resolved the day after its engineer  provided  the report  and the 
invoice. Mr J followed up a few days later with an email. Within the email he confirmed as 
BG hadnt acted hed be looking to get the work  done himself. I think this is clear  evidence 
and it deals with the point  made by BG that it didnt have  a chance to rectify the problems 
that still existed. It did have an opportunity but it didnt act. BG said as Mr J didnt live there it 
was a big issue. I think regardless  of whether  Mr J lived there or not BG had a responsibility 
under the policy.  Also I think Mr J had a responsibility to his tenants.
I think either the pipes  were never  unblocked  or a lasting and effective repair  wasnt  carried  
out. I understand that BG refer to restored flow and that the policy  excludes descaling  and 
cleaning of pipes.  But it doesnt appear  that anything had changed regarding the blockage 
from when Mr J initially claimed. After  the work done  by BGs engineer  Mr J was back on the 
phone with BG so it was clear that the blockage hadnt been resolved.  So although BG said 
that the work  done by Mr Js contractor was excluded  under the policy I dont accept that. Its 
clear that Mr Js contractor did the work that BG didnt complete correctly first time around.  
So I dont  think it is fair or reasonable  for BG to say that this work  was excluded.
Ref: DRN66892532I dont think BG has acted reasonably or fairly  in dealing with Mr Js claim. So BG should pay 
the costs Mr J had to pay out to remove the pipe blockage in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. The amount should  have  8% simple interest added to it from the date of invoice 
to the date of settlement.
Its clear that the problems created  difficulties  for Mr J and his tenants. Despite him having 
cover under the policy the repairs werent  carried out and in the end Mr J had to pay out to 
get them done personally. Its clear  that caused Mr J distress and inconvenience and the 
level of service he received was below the level he shouldve been  able to expect. I note that 
BG has paid £60 already but I think further  compensation of £150 is a fair and reasonable 
amount in the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Services Limited to:
pay Mr Js costs for the unblocking of the pipes  in line with the limits within the policy;
interest at 8%* simple per year should be added to the amount from the date of invoice 
to the date of settlement.
pay £150 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience.
*If British Gas Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr J a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
British Gas Services Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which 
we tell it Mr J accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6689253