K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited  cancelled his motor  policy  as if it never  
existed because he failed  to tell it he had moved  address. 
References to Ageas  include  all its agents.
background
Mr G bought his policy  in May 2017 and said he lived at what  I will call address A. He was to 
be the main driver and his car would be kept at address A. He renewed  his policy  in May 
2018.
Then another driver  made a claim on his policy  following an accident  in July 2018.  Mr G told 
Ageas he had moved to what I will call address B in April 2018, but he hadnt  told it that 
when his policy renewed in May 2018.
Initially Ageas (through the broker) asked Mr G to pay a further  premium  of £684.75. But 
then Ageas decided to cancel his policy as if it never existed,  as it believed Mr G had 
deliberately not told it he had moved to address B to gain an advantage. Ageas  also kept his 
premium. 
Mr G was unhappy and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator  thought Ageas hadnt 
proved Mr G had deliberately not informed Ageas of his change of address. It was merely a 
careless misrepresentation  on Mr Gs behalf. So he thought Ageas should reinstate the 
policy and remove any notice of cancellation  from his record. He also thought Ageas should 
pay him £100 compensation.
Ageas didnt agree so Mr Gs complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 November 2019. I said the following: 
Ageas hasnt produced any evidence to show that Mr G deliberately  set out to not 
inform Ageas of his change of address. As theres no evidence  that Mr G was aware  
it would  be cheaper  to insure  his car at address A instead of address B. Mr G owned  
both properties  and he has shown us that he pays council tax for both.  So I consider 
he simply didnt bother to tell Ageas,  and I consider that to be merely careless 
misrepresentation.
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, (CIDRA) 
careless misrepresentation  is a qualifying misrepresentation.  This means  as it was 
only careless, Ageas was wrong to cancel his policy as if it never existed  and keep 
the premium. I consider  it had no right to do that under the provisions of CIDRA.
What Ageas should  have done was explain  to Mr G that it would have charged him 
more premium, if he had told it about his change of address to address  B. Therefore, 
it would  deal with any claim  from him on a proportionate basis unless Ageas was 
willing to charge the extra premium and Mr G was willing to pay it. This service also 
considers it good  practice if the insurer deals  with any claim from the other  driver  in 
full, merely dealing with any claim by the policyholder on a proportionate  basis,  given 
the Road Traffic legislation. 
Ref: DRN62562782Ageas initially asked Mr G to pay more premium  but without explaining the options 
under CIDRA to Mr G. Then it quickly changed its mind  and instead  cancelled his 
policy as if it never existed keeping the premium without any evidence  to substantiate 
any deliberate  intent by Mr G. This meant  Mr G had to continue to pay his premium  
by instalment, find alternative insurance  elsewhere  paying a higher premium  given 
the cancellation by Ageas. He also had to deal with debt collectors over his premium 
instalments.
So I agree Ageas now needs to put things right. However, Mr G is now insured 
elsewhere so reinstating this policy isnt appropriate. And clearly, Ageas has shown  it 
would have charged Mr G a higher premium had it known at renewal  that he had 
moved to address B.
Therefore I consider  its right Ageas now asks Mr G to pay that additional  premium  
and make arrangements for Mr G to pay it in a reasonable way by sensible 
instalments with no interest  attached  to the payments.
It should write a letter to Mr G, which he then can show  his new insurers, explaining it 
cancelled his policy due to its own error.  This should  then allow  Mr Gs new insurers  
refund any premium they may have  charged due to the fact Ageas cancelled  his 
policy. 
It should remove all notices of the cancellation  and voidance from all internal and 
external databases  and records.
It should pay any claim Mr G might  have wanted  to make given the accident adding 
interest at 8% simple  per year assuming Mr G has already repaired his car.
And clearly, its put Mr G to some trouble and upset so it should  pay him £100  
compensation.
Ageas agreed  with my provisional  decision. Mr G was concerned given  he said he said he 
had paid a further six premium  instalments.  Ageas said its records show he had only paid 
five such instalments. Mr G also said his new policy with another provider was actually 
cheaper than the policy  Ageas provided  and would have provided  had it known about  his 
change of address.  So he asked that I look at the matter again.
I issued a second provisional decision and I said the following:
First, I apologise to both parties for having to do yet a further provisional decision.  
But given the further discussions with Mr G and the investigator, I consider my 
proposals below now coherently puts things right, given Mr G has paid either five or 
six premium instalments to Ageas in any event.
As a result of these premium instalments, its clear Mr G is paying  insurance twice for 
the same  period of some months, which I consider is inappropriate and unfair.  
So given the other driver  made a claim on Mr Gs policy, and Ageas has paid that, 
that means an insured  event took place under the policy.  Incidentally, Mr G has 
confirmed he has no wish to make any claim himself  for this incident. That in turns  
means the entire premium for the policy year May 2018 to May 2019,  is now payable 
from Mr G to Ageas at the correct rate, to include the increase in premium for Mr Gs 
Ref: DRN62562783address B. Ageas should now confirm precisely how much of that Mr G has now paid 
and show what is still outstanding. Mr G originally was paying his premium by 
instalments (inclusive  of interest on that loan),  which he has continued to do to the 
order of five or six more  payments of £167.13.
Mr G has shown us that he obtained  a new policy, which  started on 19 July 2018  for 
an annual premium of £834.49, which less than the original premium and the 
adjusted premium, which Ageas required.  Therefore its clear that Mr G was paying 
for the same insurance from 19 July 2018  until his policy with Ageas expired  in May 
2019 - a total of 10 months.  I consider  Ageas needs to refund Mr G that 10 months 
time on risk on his new policy, with interest.  
All fees,  from either  Ageas or the broker should  now be waived so that Mr G is no 
longer responsible for them. And I maintain this matter has caused  unnecessary  
inconvenience for which Ageas should  pay him £100 compensation. 
Additionally, all notices  of cancellation and voidance on all internal and external 
databases and records should now be removed.
Ageas accepted my provision decision and was happy to accept Mr G had paid six 
instalments. That meant Mr G now owed it £684.75 for the extra premium due given the 
change of address.  However, Mr Gs premium on his new policy  for the 10 months he was 
effectively insured twice  amounted to £695.40 and Ageas has agreed to refund that.
Therefore, Ageas still owes  Mr G the sum of £10.65 with interest.  Mr G was content with this, 
following a conversation with the investigator.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  agreed my second provisional decision, I see no reason  to change it. 
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Ageas Insurance Limited  to do the following:
On the basis, that Mr G still owes Ageas £684.75 in premium for his change of 
address and that Ageas owes Mr G £695.40  for his new policy  covering 10 months of 
his policy  with Ageas,  Ageas now needs to pay Mr G the sum of £10.65.
It should add interest  of 8% simple interest  from 18 July 2018  to the date it pays 
Mr G.* 
Remove all notices  of cancellation from all internal and external databases and 
records. 
Pay Mr G £100 compensation.
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr G how much  its taken off. It should 
Ref: DRN62562784also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6256278