K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008 
alongside a personal loan. Miss L says Northern  Bank Ltd, Danske Bank at the time, mis-
sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss L says it wasnt made  clear  to her that the PPI was optional. But based on the evidence  
Ive seen I think Northern  Bank made it clear that Miss L didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand  if she cant  remember  this now. I 
say this because  Ive seen a copy of her loan agreement. In this document the PPI policy  
was set out in a separate column to the loan breakdown and was called "Optional 
Repayment Protection Insurance". Further down in the same  document  Ive seen that there 
was an additional  section for PPI where Miss L ticked to agree to the cover and signed  in 
this section  separately to her signature to agree to the credit. Even though  I dont know  
what exactly was discussed  at the time, this was an advised sale so its likely  Northern  Bank 
told her she should  take out the PPI, but thats  different to saying she has to take out the 
policy. And from the evidence Ive seen from the sale I think Miss L wouldve known the PPI 
was optional and she agreed to take it out. 
Miss L says the sales person didnt consider her circumstances at the time. But Northern 
Bank says it did recommend the PPI to Miss L, so it had to check that the policy  was right for 
her. As things stand, there isnt enough  information  to determine this point. But being able to 
do so isnt crucial to the outcome because, had Northern Bank recommended the policy,  I 
think it wouldve been a suitable recommendation to have made  for the reasons I set out 
below. As a result, Ive considered the complaint  on the same basis  as Northern Bank.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think the policy was suitable for Miss L. I say this because she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and, considering what 
shes said about not having  any sick pay or savings at the time, I think  she had a need for 
the cover.  
Miss L says she wasnt aware  the PPI attracted interest. But from the documents Ive seen 
from the sale of this policy Im satisfied  that the PPI premium, the interest on the premium, 
the total cost and the monthly cost of the policy was clearly set out. But its possible  some of 
the other information  Northern Bank  gave  Miss L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  This includes the fact that she wouldnt have been given a proportionate 
refund if shed cancelled her policy or repaid her loan early. But I havent seen any 
persuasive evidence  that Miss L had any intention of refinancing  her loan early or wouldve 
paid it off before the end of its term. And for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable  
for her, it looks like the policy  would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN63672372This means  Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L. But 
Northern Bank will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because : 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss L about that. Because Northern Bank didnt  
tell Miss L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Miss L any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Miss L the extra she paid each month on the loan 
because the commission  and profit share  was more than 50% of the PPI premium - including  
any extra  Miss L paid if the loan was paid off early.  Northern  Bank  should  also pay Miss L 
8%* simple interest on the extra paid each  month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss L can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Ltd does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Northern Bank Ltd does  have  to pay back to Miss L any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6367237