K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about her home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI). She thinks it 
handled her claim made following storm damage badly.
background
In late February 2018 Mrs D noted  water coming in and made a claim to UKI. UKI accepted  
the claim for storm damage;  it noted  damage to the carport  and tiles on the roof. On the roof 
it was felt that the boiler flue had shifted  and was leaning.
Work to replace some tiles and repair the carport had been done by mid-March  but then the 
carport work failed. UKI accepted it had been  installed poorly  and got the work done again. 
UKI didnt  carry out any work on the flue. On closer  inspection  it said the flue wasnt  really 
leaning and hadnt been shifted by the wind. There was a lot of cement around the base and 
this was cracked with signs  of paint inside the crack  suggesting it was a longstanding issue.
UKI noted there  had been various issues during the claim  with delays, missed or late 
attendance for appointments  and poor communication. There  were also the poor repairs  to 
the carport. UKI wrote to Mrs D and offered to pay her a total of £630  £600 for distress and 
inconvenience, £20 to replace a damaged doormat and £10 to cover the cost of posting  to it 
her roofers  report  on the flue. Having  received  the report UKI said it didnt change  anything;  
the cement around  the flue hadnt been  damaged by a storm.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ds complaint. Mrs D had said that UKI had only paid her 
£400 compensation. Our investigator  said he was satisfied that it had paid her £600. He 
explained that UKI hadnt accepted that the damage  to the flue was covered by the policy. In 
the circumstances he felt that £600  compensation was fair and reasonable. Mrs D asked  for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mrs D was without heating and hot water for a while but it seems this was a decision 
she made  UKI hadnt told her not to use the boiler and it seems Mrs D didnt receive  
professional advice in this respect. I can see that UKI told her it thought  there was no safety 
issue with the boiler.  
I can see that Mrs D had to contact UKI quite a lot and there was some  delay  with initially  
getting contractors  to the property. I also accept it was frustrating for Mrs D when  the work 
that UKI had done failed so quickly. But I see that UKI did act to get an independent opinion 
when its contractor told it the work had been  completed to a reasonable standard and that 
following the independent companys report,  re-work was authorised.  
I appreciate that Mrs D has been  through a difficult time and its clear that UKI could have 
handled things  better for her at points during her claim. However,  I think  the payments made  
by UKI were fair and reasonable. If UKI had offered nothing I wouldnt have made it pay 
more than it has.
Ref: DRN69912772Regarding the damage at the base of the flue; I can see that UKIs opinion  broadly matches 
that of Mrs Ds roofer. The flue isnt damaged and hasnt been  uplifted by the wind. Rather 
the base has been finished  with cement,  and no collar. The cement is cracked  and it is this 
crack that is letting in water.  
Cracked cement isnt damage Id associate  with that normally caused  by a storm and Im 
mindful that this crack has been painted  over at some stage as well, seemingly  prior to the 
storm damage reported by Mrs D and accepted by UKI. It may well be that if a collar  had 
been fitted this would have prevented  rain seeping through the crack into the property. But 
the lack of a collar is still not damage caused  by storm. Im satisfied  that UKIs refusal to 
cover this damage was fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6991277