K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how Great Lakes  Insurance SE handled  a claim he made on his 
landlords insurance policy.
Mr H is being represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to all actions and comments  
as being those of Mr H.
background
In March 2018, Mr H reported an escape  of water in the garage  of a rental property he owns. 
He made  a claim for damage to items  he had stored in there. The items claimed for included  
mattresses, furniture, computer equipment and an extensive collection of around 2,300  CDs. 
He estimated his claim to be worth around £34,000.
Great Lakes attended  and accepted the claim. In June it offered a cash settlement of around 
£12,950. It said the claim for £23,000 for the CDs was too high as not all of them were 
damaged. It offered £6,900 for the CD collection to settle this part of the claim.  It also offered 
around £1,400  for the mattresses, which is less than Mr H claimed. It didnt  agree  to cover 
the computer  equipment  as it said this was excluded under the policy.  And it said the 
furniture could be restored, so it offered £1,300 for the restoration cost.  It also paid around 
£2,000 to repair the damage caused to the garage by the leak.
Mr H complained to Great  Lakes about  the offer. He said Great Lakes hadnt shown that the 
furniture could be restored, and he didnt think the loss adjuster was independent  enough to 
make this decision. He also said the sample of CDs looked at by Great Lakes was too small, 
so it hadnt shown its offer was fair. He said the items from the garage had been  in storage 
since April 2018 and Great Lakes should  pay for his storage costs. He wasnt satisfied with 
the way Great Lakes had handled the claim and his complaint, and as a result he said hed 
incurred more travel costs, as he lives abroad and had to return to the UK to sort things out. 
The matter  couldnt  be resolved so the complaint was brought to our service.
Whilst our investigator was investigating  the complaint, Great  Lakes agreed to increase the 
offer it had made  for the CDs to £7,500. Our investigator thought that was a fair offer and 
noted Mr H had accepted not all CDs were  damaged. She also thought the settlement 
offered for the other items  was fair. 
Our investigator noted Mr H had chosen  to live abroad. So she thought it was inevitable  hed 
have to come back to the UK to deal with the claim.  Looking at the timelines she didnt think  
Great Lakes had caused any unnecessary delays in the settlement, so she didnt think  it 
needed to reimburse  Mr H for his travel costs.
But she did think Great  Lakes should pay for the storage of the items  from the date they 
went into storage until the date the settlement was offered  in June 2018.
Mr H accepted what the investigator  had said about  the mattresses, his computer equipment 
and the travel costs.  But he didnt agree to the rest of the findings. 
Great Lakes agreed  it would pay for the storage costs between  April and June 2018.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved the complaint  has come to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN69510822Ive already told both parties I intend to reach  a slightly  different outcome in relation to the 
storage costs. Mr H said he wasnt in a position  to take his items out of storage until 
December 2018,  so hes asked Great Lakes to cover his storage  costs until this date. Ive 
said I didnt think it would  be reasonable to ask Great Lakes  to do this. 
Great Lakes provided  a settlement allowing the garage to be reinstated in June 2018. So I 
said I thought  Great Lakes should pay a further  month of storage costs, until 4 July 2018. I 
said it should also pay the £670 it cost Mr H to have the items packaged and taken into 
storage. This is because  I accept that given Mr Hs circumstances, hed have  needed some  
more time to reinstate the garage having received  the settlement amount in June.  
Mr H said he thought  he should be paid for the storage  costs  until September instead. He 
said he personally wanted to oversee work to the garage  and even though he had a loss 
assessor he couldnt have done  it before then. He thought paying the storage until 
September would  be a reasonable settlement.  Great Lakes agreed to pay the additional  
storage costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr H has accepted what our investigator has said on a number of points. So I wont  address 
these as part of this decision. My decision will focus on the issues  still in dispute.  These  are 
the restoration of the furniture, Great Lakes offer for the CDs and the remaining storage 
costs. 
the restoration of the furniture
Under the policy, Great Lakes is able to pay the cost of repairing an item. So it is entitled to 
offer Mr H an amount  for the furniture to be repaired.  It has also offered to arrange for the 
furniture to be restored.  And looking at the offer thats been made, I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
Mr H has asked for written evidence to be provided from Great Lakes  experts in relation to 
reinstating the furniture.  I havent been  provided  any written confirmation  from an expert in 
relation to this. Great Lakes say its loss adjuster thought the furniture could be repaired, 
which is why an offer of restoration was made, so it didnt need to speak  to an expert. Ive 
looked at the photographs  of the furniture,  and I cant see anything that would make me think  
it wouldnt be possible to restore the furniture. The furniture  doesnt appear to be unique or 
of an age where I think an experts opinion would be needed on it, so I dont think Great 
Lakes was unreasonable in relying on its loss adjusters opinion.
Mr H hasnt provided anything which makes me think the furniture cannot  be restored or it 
would cost more  to do so. So in the absence of this I havent seen anything that suggests 
Great Lakes offer of £1,300 for the furniture to be restored  is too low. 
the CDs
Having looked  at everything, I dont think Great Lakes needs to offer any more  than £7,500  
for the CDs. 
Ref: DRN69510823Mr H accepts that not all of the CDs were damaged, but says the onus is on Great Lakes to 
prove their offer is correct. Great Lakes accept it didnt test all of the CDs, and I dont think 
this is an unreasonable thing to do given the volume.  Ive also noted  it didnt ask Mr H to 
prove there were 2,300 CDs in the crates. It accepted the figure seemed consisted with the 
volume of CDs it observed  in garage. I also think this was reasonable of Great Lakes to do 
given the time it would have taken Mr H to pull the information together to prove this part of 
his claim.
Both parties  agree that a small sample  of CDs were tested from various parts  of the box. It 
was found that all of the CDs were working,  but some of the covers had been damaged.    
Mr H has raised  concerns about the size of the sample. But based on the outcome of the 
ones it did look at, it doesnt seem that any more testing would have shown anything 
different.
Great Lakes accepted that the damaged covers could affect the value of the CDs, but it 
didnt think Mr H had shown that all of the CDs needed replacing or that all of those 
damaged had a value  of £10 as hed claimed. It found CDs in the box that were still on sale 
for less than £10 or had come  free as part of a newspaper. So it thought an average of £6 
for half of the CDs was reasonable. It felt this was a fair assessment of the CDs that were 
likely to have been damaged. But it did later increase this to make  a total offer of around 
£6.50 per CD.
Great Lakes offered Mr H the opportunity to provide an itemised list of the damaged CDs 
and their costs, so it could  review  it. Mr H has chosen not to do this. He also didnt want  any 
more testing of the CDs to be done  once the complaint was brought  to our service. Mr H 
hasnt provided  anything which makes me think Great Lakes offer is unfair or should be 
increased. He said an estimate of £10 was conservative based on some of the CDs that he 
had, but he hasnt provided  any evidence  to support this. Mr H does  have a responsibility to 
demonstrate the loss hes suffered. But based on the information  Great  Lakes had at the 
time I dont  think its offer is unreasonable and Im satisfied it offered reasonable suggestions 
to settle the claim. 
Great Lakes has already paid the additional  £600  it offered for the CDs, so it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr H anything further for this part of the claim.
storage costs
I dont agree Great Lakes needs  to pay storage costs beyond 4 July 2018. Mr H had an 
escape of water in the garage  where he was storing  his personal items. Great Lakes paid 
around £2,000  for the reinstatement works for the garage on at the start of June 2018.  
Ref: DRN69510824Mr H says because of his health and there being  mould in the garage, he wasnt in a position  
to restore it until December 2018.  I appreciate the situation Mr H found himself in, but I note 
he had appointed a loss assessor to help handle  the claim.  And I dont think he needed to 
carry out the work himself. I accept it might  have been easier for Mr H to keep the items in 
storage until he could return to the UK, but I dont think this means Great Lakes  need  to pay 
for this. Im satisfied Great Lakes  met its obligation  to provide a settlement  and Mr H has 
been given a reasonable period of time to arrange for the garage to be reinstated.  So it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask Great Lakes to pay for more storage  costs after 4 July 
2018.
In total, based  on the invoices, I think Great Lakes should pay Mr H a total of £1,194 for the 
storage costs, including  the cost of packing  up the items in the garage. It should do this less 
any payment it has already made  for storage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr H £1,194 for the 
storage costs  less any amount it has paid already. It should pay 8% on this amount from 
the date the payment was made, until the date of settlement.*
  *Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Great  Lakes Insurance  SE deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Great  Lakes 
Insurance SE should give Mr H a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6951082