K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that esure  Insurance Limited  (trading as Sheilas  Wheels)  cancelled his 
motor insurance policy  without telling him.
 
background
Mr A took out his policy online. He says he was prompted to upload proof of his no claims 
discount and he did so. He says he received a total of four emails from esure. He wasnt 
asked for more information  or warned about the cancellation of his policy  if more information  
wasnt received. He wasnt aware his policy had been cancelled  until he received a letter 
some days  after the actual cancellation. He was unknowingly driving while uninsured  for a 
time. He wants compensating.
Esure has said that an email it sent to Mr A on 1 April 2019 asked him to provide more 
documentation. But this email had failed to send as part of its mail merge. When  the 
documents werent received it sent another email and a letter saying  the policy would be 
cancelled if it didnt  receive them by 25 April 2019. As there was no response it cancelled the 
policy. But it had paid £50 compensation for not sending the email on 1 April 2019.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
Esure says it doesnt  keep copies of letters sent and it hasnt been  able to show their  
contents. It also hasnt  shown screen shots showing they were sent. 
Esure shouldve given  Mr A the opportunity to provide  the documents needed  for this 
policy to continue and she hasnt seen enough  evidence to agree it followed its 
appropriate process. It didnt do enough  to notify Mr A of what it needed. 
Esure hasnt treated Mr A fairly. Esure has paid £50 compensation for the failure to 
send the email on 1 April 2019.  In addition to that and to put things right it should  also 
refund the £60 cancellation fee, pay him an additional £150  compensation  for the 
trouble and upset  caused, send him a letter confirming it cancelled the policy in error 
and remove the cancellation from all internal and external databases.
Mr A accepts the investigators  view.
Esure doesnt agree. It says it didnt keep copies of the letters but its processes are actioned 
simultaneously and the contents match emails noted. It emailed  Mr A on 17 April 2019.  None 
of the letters  sent were  returned by the post office.  On balance Mr A likely received them. 
They were  sent to his address. And as he received the cancellation letter  its likely he also 
received the others. It followed its correct processes and he had 25 days  to send in the 
required documentation.  Its one failure was an email  which its already offered compensation 
for. It cancelled the policy in line with its terms and conditions.
The investigator responded that esure says letters and emails are actioned simultaneously.  
But an email wasnt sent on 1 April 2019 and potentially the letter may not have been  sent 
and the first part of the process to notify Mr A had failed. Esure hasnt shown screen  shots 
proving correspondence was sent.  
Esure has asked for an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN67799772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Esure has an established procedure  and process  for dealing with situations  like Mr As. But 
unfortunately it isnt able to supply copies of all the correspondence it says was sent or show  
what was said in some of it. 
Esure also accepts it didnt send  an email on 1 April 2019 because of a fault in its mail 
merge function. And although  it says a letter would simultaneously have been generated and 
sent theres nothing  to show  what that letter said or that it was in fact sent. 
Furthermore Mr A says he didnt receive other correspondence from esure. But it says thats  
unlikely as it sent more correspondence  to him including  some to his postal address where  
he did receive the later cancellation letter. And the letters werent retuned by the post office.
Whatever happened to those letters  its clear  esures established process  wasnt fully 
completed. And I think this likely resulted  in Mr A not being given the normal and full amount 
of time to deal with matters. I dont think that was fair. Given this and the fact that esure  
hasnt been able to demonstrate the contents of some of its correspondence or that it 
entirely followed its own process I dont think on balance that it was fair or reasonable for 
esure to cancel Mr As insurance when it did.
I therefore agree with the investigator  that esure should now put things right by sending  Mr A 
a letter  confirming it cancelled the policy in error and removing the cancellation  from all 
internal and external databases. It should also refund the £60 cancellation fee and pay him a 
total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  that includes the 
£50 its already paid.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right esure Insurance Limited (trading as Sheilas 
Wheels) should, if it hasnt already done so:
1.Send  Mr A a letter confirming it cancelled the policy  in error;
2.Remove the cancellation  from all internal and external  databases;
3.Refund the £60 cancellation  fee; and 
4.Pay Mr A a total of £200 compensation.
Esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr A accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest* on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires esure to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr A 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Ref: DRN67799773Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6779977