K821x#15complaint
Miss D says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about forty-two payday loans Sunny provided to Miss D between 
November 2015  and April 2018. 
Two adjudicators have  looked at Miss Ds complaint. 
The most recent thought the loans  from loan seven onwards shouldnt have been given. 
Sunny has made an offer on loans 20 to 42, which Miss D didnt accept,  so the complaint 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss D could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss D could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN60782682Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ds case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan seven. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss D was not managing  to repay  their 
loans sustainably. Miss D had taken out seven loans within four months and Miss D 
had been indebted  to Sunny for the entire time. So Sunny ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Miss D was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous  loan was leaving in her finances and that Miss Ds 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss Ds first loan was for £150  and loan seven was for the same  amount. At this 
point Sunny ought to have known that Miss D was not likely borrowing to meet  a 
temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Miss D wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan forty-
two was taken  out nearly two and a half years after Miss Ds first. And it was for a 
larger amount. Miss D had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt 
to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Miss D lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ds indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Miss D borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Miss Ds ability to access  mainstream credit and 
so kept him/her  in the market for these  high-cost loans.
So, Im also partially upholding Miss Ds complaint - loans seven to forty-two  shouldnt have 
been given to Miss D and Sunny should  put things  right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss D paid on loans seven to forty-two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN60782683the number  of loans taken from loan seven onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So, all entries  about  loans  seven to forty-two should be 
removed from Miss Ds credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss D a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ds complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6078268