K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2002. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs G disagreed  
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  was passed to me. When I looked at the 
case, including further information sent in by Mr and Mrs G, I reached a different view.  I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. I set out my view in a provisional  decision and 
asked everyone to comment. I said:
I currently intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. This is because I think  it likely 
Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs G clear enough information for them  to assess if 
the PPI was suitable for their needs  and worth  the cost of the premiums. I say this 
because Ive not seen evidence to convince  me that Nationwide probably gave Mr 
and Mrs G clear  and fair information about  the PPI. Whereas Mr and Mrs G have 
given persuasive  evidence that they had substantial other means to pay for their 
mortgage; and I dont think theyd have taken  the PPI if theyd been given clearer  
information about its costs and benefits. 
Mr and Mrs G havent  been  able to give proof of the exact level of their savings, and 
that isnt surprising given how long ago this all happened. But theyve detailed the 
efforts theyve gone to, to find evidence to back up what theyve said. And theyve 
presented evidence of a purchase of a second home about a year later in 2003,  
which fits in with how they say they intended  to use their spare  money. So I think its 
likely that their recollection of the level of their savings at the time of the sale of the 
PPI is accurate. These  savings would have been roughly the equivalent of two years  
worth of Mr Gs salary  (as declared on the mortgage  application  form at the time). 
Hes also said he had good sick pay benefits  from his employment.
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide told them they had to have PPI as a condition of the 
mortgage. Nationwide has denied this. But even if Nationwide made it clear the PPI 
was a genuine choice, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs G were given proper information 
about the costs  and benefits. I dont think theyd have decided they needed PPI, if 
they had been. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Nationwide  made a number of points to explain why 
it didnt agree with me. These included the following: 
Having initially declined PPI, Mr and Mrs G later filled in a separate  PPI application 
form and so the PPI was included  in the mortgage  offer. 
Information about the policy would  have been provided to Mr and Mrs G when  they 
applied. 
Information about the cost, in the form of cost of cover per £100  of benefit, was 
included in the PPI leaflet.
Ref: DRN69563402The PPI was free for the first 12 months so Nationwide  does  not therefore accept 
the argument that [Mr and Mrs G] would  not have considered  the benefit worth the 
cost. Clearly they did because they applied for the policy, and selected a benefit  level 
compatible with the monthly cost of their mortgage
Mr and Mrs G chose to insure Mr G only suggesting an informed decision was 
made
Nationwide would  have written to Mr and Mrs G at the end of the free year telling 
them of the new cost, and then again  annually. 
Whilst acknowledging the fact that Mr and Mrs G had substantial  savings  at the time 
of the sale, it does not necessarily follow that the Society could  not possibly have 
given them all the information they needed, about the cost and benefits  of the cover,  
to enable them to make an informed decision.
The same  argument, that Mr and Mrs G did not need  PPI because of savings, would  
also apply to contents insurance.
Mr Gs employer benefits were  not enough  to cover costs  for long, and the savings 
were earmarked for either purchasing another property or for retirement.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered carefully the points made by Nationwide. But I have still decided  to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  I will explain why. 
I accept it is possible that Mr and Mrs G agreed to the PPI and were  given all the information  
they need to make that decision  it is possible that they have simply forgotten this now.  But 
I must make a decision  on what is most likely  to have  happened. Mr and Mrs G have said 
they never took PPI with any of their other  mortgages over 22 years  and have given 
Nationwide permission to check on this fact. Nationwide has not been able to demonstrate  to 
my satisfaction that it did give Mr and Mrs G the information they needed  to make a decision. 
The only solid evidence of this is a reference  to the cost in the revised mortgage offer  but 
this is on the third page of the offer, towards  the end of two pages of technical information 
amongst what could be called the small print. I dont think  that is evidence  of adequate 
information about the costs and benefits. 
The fact that Nationwide  probably  wrote  to tell Mr and Mrs G, after the initial  free period, that 
a premium would  be charged,  doesnt affect  whether the sale itself was fair. At that stage, it 
would have meant Mr and Mrs G would have needed to read the letter and take action, 
which is the opposite  of the active decision they needed to make  when  the PPI was sold. 
The fact that they failed  to cancel the PPI is not evidence that they wanted or needed  PPI 
originally. 
Ref: DRN69563403There is some strength to Nationwides  argument about contents insurance,  but it is much  
more normal to take that kind of insurance than PPI. And I dont think  it shows that 
Mr and Mrs G would have taken PPI even if theyd properly understood the costs and 
benefits.
Just because Mr and Mrs G have said they hoped to use their substantial savings to buy a 
second property,  or to save for retirement, doesnt  mean that theyd have thought  that PPI 
was worth having. I think, in 2002,  they would have felt financially secure; and, if considering  
the possibility  of Mr G losing his job, would probably  have expected they could adapt their 
future plans  and survive  financially. 
So I do believe it is likely that Nationwide didnt explain  the costs and benefits  of the PPI, 
and if it had, I dont  think  Mr and Mrs G would  have taken it. 
fair compensation
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs G in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs G the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide Building Society  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nationwide must give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  and require Nationwide  Building Society  to pay the 
redress set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6956340