K820x#14complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  by Barclays  Bank 
UK PLC when he took out a Barclaycard in 2001.  
background
Mr M has already been paid some money for the commission Barclays  received from selling 
him the PPI. However, Mr M still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place. An adjudicator 
looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold  shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about the mis-sale. 
We now know these events were  quite a long time ago and I acknowledge it wont  be easy 
for Mr M to remember exactly what happened. 
But Barclays  sent us the application  form Mr M used to get his new credit card back  in 2001. 
The form had a section  on it about  PPI. To get the PPI applied to the new credit card, Mr M 
needed to tick a box to say he specifically  wanted  it. On his form, I can see that box was 
ticked and he also signed the application.
Ive seen quite  a few similar  sales to this, from that time period. And I know  it was usual for 
Barclays to send a PPI welcome letter to consumers who had asked to have a policy  like 
this. Barclays sent me a copy  of the letter it says was sent out to Mr M. Ive also been shown 
some of Mr Ms monthly  credit card statements. These show that he was being  charged for 
something called Payment Protection Plan. 
So as well as asking  for the PPI, I think hed have been able to see he was being regularly 
charged for PPI and would have known a policy had been set up for him.  I think  if he hadnt 
asked for the PPI, he would have wanted  to know why hed been sent the welcome  letter 
and also why he was being charged for the PPI cover. 
So Im afraid  I think theres  quite  strong  evidence Mr M consented  to having the PPI policy.
Because this was a postal sale, I think he would have made  his way through  the application 
process in his own time without any advice from Barclays. It wasnt therefore  an advised 
sale and it was for Mr M to decide for himself whether PPI was something  he needed or 
wanted. Barclays had a duty to make sure the information he was given was clear. 
From what  I know about these types  of sale, the application was part of a wider, leaflet 
based form. So I think Mr M would have had access to information  about the PPI and what it 
covered. 
Ref: DRN63519092I also think Mr M was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the major exclusions 
we tend to see in these policies. The cost,  at 79p per £100 of the outstanding credit  card 
balance, appears  to have been affordable for Mr M. I think he would have had some sick pay 
with his job, but it would have been moderate.
On the other hand, the PPI cover would have reduced  his balance by 10% a month  for up to 
a year in the event  of a successful claim. So I think the PPI policy  was of use to him. 
So all of this means  I dont think Barclays has to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
But it has already  offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to him because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and    
profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr M about 
that. Because Barclays didnt  tell him, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays should confirm  it has paid to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already offered to pay Mr M for the commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6351909