K821x#15complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc has only paid 50% of his water  leak 
claim under his home insurance policy.
background
The policy covers one property on the site. But the actual full site and deeds refers to two 
properties. Mr T owns both but only lives in one of them. Ill call that the main house  and Ill 
call the second  property the cottage. The cottage  property insurance  is arranged 
separately with a different insurer.
The water bill for the main  house  suggested  the property was suffering a leak. Mr T let RSA 
know and as the policy cover included trace  and access cover  he set about finding the leak 
and getting it fixed. Once Mr T had completed the process and provided  his costs to RSA it 
said it was only willing to pay 50% of the costs minus the policy excess.  RSA said the 
insurance policy for the cottage should contribute the other 50%. Mr T didnt accept this and 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the water meter in the cottage  didnt show 
any leak suggesting the damage was only affecting Mr Ts main  house. Our investigator said 
as RSA could  try to claim costs back from the insurer of the cottage if it wanted to 
(subrogation) it should  deal with Mr Ts claim in full. She didnt think it was fair of RSA to 
leave this to Mr T as there  was no evidence to implicate the leak having anything to do with 
the cottage. Our investigator said RSA should  pay the claim in full plus 8% interest to the 
date of settlement.  RSA didnt accept this, and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The most important evidence in this case is that provided by the third party  experts report. 
The report  said the leak was in a pipe under  a bush dividing the two properties. The report 
also confirmed that when the main  house  internal stop tap was turned off the hissing noise 
that accompanied the leak stopped. So, it appears  that the cottage isnt directly  responsible  
for the problem. The taps in the main house control  the water  flow thats creating the leak.  All 
of the key issues stem from the water  flowing from the main house. This is highlighted by the 
water meter readings. The testimony of Mr T is that only the water meter  for the main house 
has been affected. Ive no evidence or reason to doubt what  Mr T said.
I understand the point RSA is making  about sharing the claim across the two properties on 
the site. But I also think RSA couldve opened a discussion with the other insurer at any 
point. It hasnt done so  instead its said Mr T should do that despite  the lack of evidence  to 
show the cottage should pay towards the costs of the leak.  I dont think  thats fair and more 
importantly RSA hasnt  provided enough evidence to show  this is the best way to deal with 
the claim.
The main  house  on the site is owned by Mr T and insured by RSA.  The leak has been 
clearly shown to be linked to the pipes and stop tap linked to this property by the meter 
readings and the expert report.  So, I dont  think RSA acted  fairly  when it only agreed to pay 
Ref: DRN6647856250% of the claim. I realise that RSA has already paid the 50% it accepted,  but it now needs 
to pay the other 50% and on top of the outstanding  amount  is it should  also pay 8% simple 
interest from date of claim to date of settlement.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
pay the remaining  50% of the claim cost;
pay 8% simple interest* per year from the date of claim to the date of settlement on the 
remaining claim cost.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr T a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6647856