K821x#15complaint and background
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without  carrying  out proper affordability checks. He would like all the 
fees and charges associated with the loan refunded. He also feels  that 118 118 Money  
didnt do all it could to help him when he let it know that he was struggling financially.
Ive attached some sections of my provisional  decision from March 2021, which form 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I set out the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold  this complaint. I asked both Mr H and 118 118 Money to let me 
have any more information they wanted me to consider. Whilst Mr H kindly provided 
some further  context to the financial difficulties he experienced in 2017, that context 
didnt alter the outcome, and he didnt disagree  with my findings. 118 118 Money  has 
confirmed it accepts my findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
provisional findings, I have no reason to depart from them. It therefore follows that I uphold  
this complaint, and direct  118 118 Money to put things right for Mr H as set out below.
118 118 Money has confirmed that the debt was assigned to a third party in 2019.
118 118 Money says it is not able to buy the debt back, so it must therefore liaise with the 
new debt owner to ensure the results  outlined below are achieved.
A) 118 118 Money must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr H as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then 118 118 
Money should agree a suitable  repayment plan with Mr H.
D) It must remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file in relation to this 
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money  to deduct tax from this interest.  It should  
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold this complaint and direct  Madison CF UK Limited  to put 
things right as set out in the preceding section of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Ref: DRN65444402Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN65444403Copy  of relevant sections of provisional decision
background
In March 2017  118 118 Money approved a loan of £3,500 for Mr H, which was scheduled to be 
repaid at approximately £272 per month over a term of 24 months.  The purpose of the loan was 
not recorded at the time. When assessing the application, 118 118 Money  asked Mr H about  his 
financial circumstances and carried out a credit  check before  approving the lending.
Unfortunately, it seems that Mr H ran into some financial difficulties in August 2017 and 
appears to have entered a repayment plan which reduced his monthly repayments to £100 
initially. However, that plan failed after a couple of months, and he began making  payments of 
£1 per month until April 2018. After  that time, he does not seem to have made any further 
payments and 118 118 Money  has confirmed that the debt was sold on to a third party  in April 
2019.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence  and thought 118 118 Money  hadnt done  anything  wrong 
in approving the loan, and that it had done all it needed to when trying to help Mr H with his 
difficulties in repaying the loan. Mr H disagreed  and asked an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im currently planning to uphold  it in part, and Ill explain why.
118 118 Money  is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision,  including the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook  (CONC), so I wont repeat them here. 
But, briefly,  it was required to carry out sufficient  checks to ensure that Mr H would be able to repay 
the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in CONC  5.3.1G(2) that means that he 
could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties  or experiencing  significant adverse 
consequences
Essentially, he needed  to be able to meet  him financial commitments and not have to borrow  
elsewhere to repay  118 118 Money for the loan to be considered affordable and sustainable.
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will deal with 
separately below.
Did 118 118 Money carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
118 118 Money  asked Mr H some questions about him income and expenditure, and carried out a 
credit check when considering him loan application. However, I dont think  that was enough, and I 
say so because of what 118 118 Money would have seen as a result of both Mr Hs declarations 
and the credit  check.
Mr H declared a monthly income of £1,200 and expenditure of just £190. Those outgoings  were  
broken down  into various categories, including housing costs, council tax, insurance,  food, and 
amounts needed to service  other debts. He estimated  monthly outgoings  of £80 to service 
existing debts,  £80 in monthly rent and £30 per month for food. This was despite him also 
declaring that he was renting  an unfurnished home, not, for example,  living with parents or other 
family. Based  on what  Mr H told it about his financial situation,  118 118 Money could have 
concluded that he had a disposable income of nearly  £1,000,  which would  have been enough  to 
Ref: DRN65444404service an additional monthly repayment of around £272.
However, 118 118 Money was required to actually engage with the information it gathered, 
not merely accept something as flagrantly implausible as Mr Hs declared  expenditure. How 
a rented home in a major English city could have cost only £80 per month, inclusive of 
council tax and all utility  bills, beggars belief. And how Mr H could have survived spending 
£1 per day on food is also verging on miraculous.  These disclosures should  have flagged  
potential concerns.
In some ways, the results of the credit check it completed showed  118 118 Money a broadly 
similar picture to Mr Hs disclosures. He did indeed  appear to have a monthly debt burden of 
around £80, but that was because it is clear that he was by and large  making minimum 
repayments (e.g. £5 to £6 per month) on credit card accounts that were all but maxed out. 
Additionally, it showed  that his current account was at its (substantial) overdraft  limit. These 
factors do not suggest an individual who is in a stable financial position with a monthly disposable  
income of £1,000.
So, I dont think 118 118 Money did what it needed to in terms of checks  when considering  this 
loan, as it appears to me to have ignored the flags  described above signalling the real possibility 
of this borrowing being  unsustainable. Therefore I have gone on to think  about  what  it may have 
found if it had been more  thorough, to decide whether it was wrong to approve Mr Hs application  
or not.
What would  proportionate checks have shown, had 118 118 Money carried them out?
The regulations do not dictate how lenders should carry out checks,  or prescribe what  information  
they should  rely on. So 118 118 Money  could  have done various things to verify what  Mr H was 
telling them, and overall gain both a deeper and broader understanding of his financial situation. 
What I have seen are copies of Mr Hs bank statements from around the time, specifically  January, 
February and March 2017. In the round, they paint a picture  of someone heavily in debt who could 
not afford to take on any new borrowing, keeping in mind  what  CONC says about what sustainable 
borrowing looks like.
The key issues raised by the information in the statements are:
That Mr Hs monthly income  was actually  variable, fluctuating between  about
£1,000 in January, £439  in February, and about £630 in March (received after the 
loan was advanced). So it was clearly below  the £1,200 declared, and some months 
could be only about  a third of that amount.  With a monthly income  of
£439, even the implausible monthly expenditure  declared of £190 would  have left Mr 
H with insufficient disposable income  to make  the monthly repayment of
£272 under  consideration.There were frequent transfers between  this account and 
one ending -262, both deposits  and payments. It would appear to be another account  
with the same bank,  and Mr H was generally  paying more out to this account  than he 
was receiving  back.  This suggests that he was unlikely  to have had sufficient  credit in 
that other account  to improve his financial position.
There were frequent transfers between  Mr H and an individual with the initials CF, 
sometimes for substantial  amounts. I cant see transactions for his main bills and it 
may be that Mr Hs main  bills and living  expenses were being  routed through  CF, I 
dont know. But it is clear that his expenditure far exceeded that declared  to 118 118 
Money.
That Mr Hs current account was never in credit. (Until the £3,500 loan from 118 118 
Money was deposited).  He also did not manage to remain  within his agreed 
overdraft limit (which  was higher than his monthly income). Put simply,  he was 
clearly reliant on borrowing merely to exist, and it quickly becomes  clear  why he was 
only able to make small repayments  towards his credit card balances.
Ref: DRN65444405The fact that Mr H was reliant  on his overdraft, rather than other high cost credit providers, to 
survive does not alter the fact that he could not possibly have  made  the repayments to 118 118 
Money without borrowing  to do so. That is the very definition of unsustainable under  the 
regulations.
Nothing I have seen portrays this loan as being affordable for Mr H, and so it follows that I 
currently plan to uphold his complaint about the lending.
Did 118 118 Money treat Mr H fairly when  he let it know he was having financial difficulties?
The adjudicator set out how 118 118 Money responded when Mr H told it he couldnt make  the 
contractual repayments. Mr H hasnt disagreed  with what the adjudicator said as far as I can see.
His difficulties first arose only a few months after the loan was given. It is clear  that 118 118 Money 
quickly tried to complete a full income  and expenditure exercise with Mr H, but that he didnt have 
the necessary information  to participate. It also agreed to his request  for a repayment plan of £100  
per month.  This plan didnt succeed, and it would seem that a few months later 118 118 Money  
reduced the repayment plan to £1 per month. Again, it tried to complete an income  and expenditure 
exercise with Mr H to work  out what he could  afford to repay.  It would seem Mr H wasnt willing  to 
go through that exercise. At times, months elapsed where 118 118 Money  seems to have received 
no contact  from Mr H. It acknowledged his difficult situation, passed his account to its specialist  
support team, and referred him to free debt management support.  By the time it sold the debt to a 
third party collection agency, it would  seem it had received  no repayments at all from Mr H for a 
year. All in all, I cant  see that 118 118 Money could  have done  any more than it did to treat Mr H 
fairly when he disclosed  his financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN6544440