K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limiteds handling of a claim 
under his home insurance policy after he suffered an escape of water  at his property. Mr B is 
represented in his complaint by his grandson.
background
In May 2017, Mr Bs home  suffered an escape of water which  affected  the ceiling in his 
kitchen. He made a claim under his policy which Lloyds accepted.  Lloyds appointed a 
contractor to carry out repair work.
The kitchen had wood  cladding on its ceiling and walls. When  the contractor removed this 
from the ceiling,  it damaged some of the cladding on the walls. The contractor attempted  to 
replace the damaged cladding but it didnt match the existing cladding. Eventually,  Mr B 
agreed that all the cladding  could  be removed and the room  could  simply be plastered.
The plastering took place during October and November 2018. However, Mr B was unhappy 
at the quality of the plastering  work, saying that there were cracks, gaps and lumps. He also 
said that paint  splashes and plaster had been left on windows and that a new fridge-freezer  
had been scratched.
Lloyds responded over the course  of two final response letters.
In November 2018, it denied that its contractor had been responsible  for any damage to the 
fridge freezer, though it offered £100  compensation for poor service.
In January 2019, it offered  a further £100 compensation for continued poor service. It 
acknowledged that there were snagging issues but it disputed  it was necessary for the 
ceiling to be re-skimmed, as suggested by Mr B. It considered that the outstanding work  
could be completed  within a day but said its contractor was unwilling to re-attend the 
property due to the previous behaviour of Mr B. It therefore offered £200 in settlement of the 
outstanding work.
Mr B didnt accept Lloyds offer. He referred his complaint to us. He said the quotes he had 
received for the outstanding work  were  in excess of £1,000.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He considered that 
photographs submitted by Mr B showed the plastering to be of poor quality. He furthermore 
considered the photographs showed that plaster  had been  left on the window frames and 
that a hole had been left behind the boiler.  The investigator noted that Lloyds contractor was 
unwilling to return to the property due to concerns  over the way its workers had been 
treated. He therefore  considered that Lloyds should meet the reasonable cost of re-
plastering to a suitable standard,  filling in the hole behind  the boiler, and removing the 
plaster from the window  frames. The investigator  wasnt persuaded from the photographic 
evidence that Lloyds contractor had caused the scratches on the fridge-freezer.
Lloyds didnt accept  the investigators  findings. It said that the hole behind the boiler went  the 
width of the house and was unlikely to have been  created by its contractor; instead it 
considered the hole was likely  to have been  there all along and was simply revealed when 
the cladding was removed. It said that the window frames simply displayed pre-existing 
grime and that it wasnt its contractors  responsibility  to clean this off.
Ref: DRN69435672Mr B accepted the investigators findings  but asked that consideration also be given to the 
additional heating  costs he had incurred due to the hole behind the boiler.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. 
I shall explain why.
Im satisfied that the photographs show the plastering carried  out by Lloyds contractor  has a 
poor finish. I consider  that the ceiling,  in particular, needs to be re-skimmed.
Furthermore, the photographs show that there is a significant hole behind  the boiler which in 
my opinion was unlikely to have been there before   at least,  not in such  a way that it 
caused an issue for Mr B. Lloyds has suggested  that the hole may have been concealed 
behind the cladding. That may be the case but given  that it was Lloyds contractor who 
removed the cladding, I consider the onus was on the contractor to fill the hole before 
plastering the wall.   
I also consider the photographs show that plaster  was left on the window frames. While 
I accept that its contractor wasnt required to clean the kitchen of pre-existing grime,  it was 
required to ensure work was done  carefully. I consider that Lloyds is responsible  for 
removing the plaster  from the window frames.
Lloyds contractor has apparently refused to go back to the property because  of the way its 
workers were treated by Mr B. I can see that there were some  problems while  they were 
working on site; Mr Bs grandson has explained  that Mr B is elderly and gets confused which  
seems to have led to the difficulties. However, if Lloyds is unwilling to carry out the work, it 
must pay Mr B to allow  him to get someone else to do the work. Neither Mr B nor Lloyds is 
apparently now able to produce  the quotes  which Mr B previously obtained. And Mr B has 
explained that he is finding  it difficult to obtain  any quote currently  due to the economic 
impact of the coronavirus and the associated lockdown  on local tradespeople. I cant  
therefore award a specific sum. However, unless it changes its mind and agrees to do the 
work itself (which is what I understand Mr B would prefer), I consider that Lloyds must  pay 
the reasonable amount  which Mr B shows it will cost him (through production of an itemised  
quote) to carry out this work.
With regard to the scratches  on the fridge-freezer, Lloyds has provided photographs from 
before the work started which  appear  to show the scratches were already present. Based on 
this, I consider it unlikely  that Lloyds contractor was responsible for damaging the appliance. 
I acknowledge that Mr B will have been  caused  some distress and inconvenience  by Lloyds 
poor service. Lloyds has offered a total of £200 compensation. Taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied this is fair.
Mr B additionally  says he has also been subject  to higher fuel bills as a result of the unfilled 
hole. I havent  seen evidence of this. And Lloyds hasnt had an opportunity to consider this 
aspect of the complaint. I consider that if Mr B has evidence  to show he has incurred 
financial loss in the form of additional  fuel costs as a result  of the unfilled hole, he should 
Ref: DRN69435673present this to Lloyds  in the first instance so it can consider whether compensation is 
payable. If he is dissatisfied with Lloyds response, he may raise this as a separate  
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to pay the reasonable amount which Mr B 
shows it will cost (through production of an itemised quote) to re-plaster  to a suitable 
standard, remove the plaster from the window frames and fill the hole behind the boiler. 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited may alternatively, and subject to Mr Bs agreement, 
arrange for its own contractor to attend  and carry out this work.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6943567