K820x#14complaint
Mrs As unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited has settled a claim on her motor  
insurance policy. 
background
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  in detail 
again here. But in summary Mrs A says she parked her car in a tight parking space and a 
third party claims  their vehicle was significantly damaged. Mrs A denies this. And she is 
unhappy that Aviva has settled this claim on an economic basis when she feels she has 
cogent and unchallenged  evidence  she didnt  cause the damage  in question. She also 
doesnt want her claims record tarnished by this. 
Aviva said that despite Mrs A saying she wasnt involved  in any accident, the third party  had 
provided images of the scene showing contact between the two vehicles and repairs  to the 
third partys  vehicle of quite minor damage. On the basis of this it had settled the third partys 
claim for repair costs and hire charges. Aviva  has also subsequently said it has recorded the 
incident as non fault and Mrs As no claims discount  has been allowed.
Our investigator felt the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said in summary that Aviva  was 
entitled under the policy terms to settle  the claim as it did. It had considered all the evidence 
and its decision to accept  liability  was fair and reasonable.
Mrs S doesnt agree  and she has asked for an ombudsman review. She has highlighted the 
evidence and what she says happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A has provided detailed submissions to support  her complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. Thats a matter  for the courts.  But 
we can look into whether Aviva has conducted  a reasonable investigation into a claim, when 
making its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy Avivas entitled  to defend and settle  a claim as it sees fit. It also 
doesnt need Mrs As approval of any decision to admit liability,  settle  a claim or make a 
payment to a third party. 
Overall I think  Aviva  investigated matters reasonably. It considered  the vehicles damage 
and what each party said. And there  werent  any independent witnesses or CCTV 
recordings. And it decided to settle  the other  partys  claim.
Ref: DRN64801382Mrs A may strongly disagree with Avivas  interpretation of the evidence and decision to settle 
the claim in favour of the third party  but I dont think its failed to comply with the policy  terms 
or exercised its discretion  unfairly or unreasonably  when deciding  to do so.
Aviva has also said it has recorded  the incident  as non fault and Mrs As no claims discount 
has been allowed. Thats  fair.
 
I recognise Mrs As frustration. But taking everything  into account I dont think Aviva has 
done anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to anything  more 
or differently, including paying her compensation, as shed like. And I dont  see a compelling  
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6480138