K820x#14Complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
In 2001, Mr M took out a PPI policy  to cover a mortgage. Mr M paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered him in case  he was off work sick or 
lost his job. It looks like Mr M did not have a mortgage with Halifax  and took out this policy  as 
a standalone one, to cover a mortgage  with a different lender.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ms PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was 18 years  ago and the policy involved has long since  closed. So I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the original  documents from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection  rules  Halifax were required to dispose of Mr Ms data rather  than hold onto it 
for too long. Mr M doesnt remember choosing PPI, but I also think  thats  understandable 
given just how long ago the sale was, and since buying insurance is not often memorable. 
Ive thought carefully about whats most likely  to have happened based  on the limited 
information I have.
It looks like Mr Ms mortgage  was with a different lender and that he took out this Halifax 
policy as a standalone one. So he wouldve known he didnt have to buy the PPI to secure 
any mortgage with Halifax.  Ive not seen  any evidence  which  shows that Halifax added the 
PPI without his permission, nor any wider  problems with its sales process from the time. And 
this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax  to be able to produce 
evidence to defend itself now.  So I dont  think I have a fair basis on which  to conclude that 
Halifax added this policy without Mr Ms permission. I think its more likely that it gave him a 
choice and that he chose PPI at the time.
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr M, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr M, Ive assumed it did. That 
means Halifax had to check the policy  was right for him. And based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was.
Ref: DRN63776492For example, it looks like Mr M was eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected  by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.  While he had some  benefits through work and a small amount 
of savings, the PPI offered him more comprehensive cover and wouldve paid out in addition 
to his existing  benefits. Its worth  bearing  in mind  that if Mr M fell behind on his mortgage he 
couldve lost his home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for him in 
protecting his home and giving some  peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr M about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  Mr M wasnt affected by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover, and it couldve  really  been useful for him in case  something went wrong. The 
policy was competitively priced  given how much it would pay out in a claim,  Ive not seen any 
indication it was unaffordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr M 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better  information  was 
likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6377649