K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc caused delays to the sale of their property 
after taking it into possession.
background
In February 2017  Mr and Mrs Ws property was taken into possession by Clydesdale. The 
property was marketed  for sale in March 2017. The price was reduced several times and 
new estate agents  were appointed in October 2017.  An offer was accepted in February 2018 
but there were delays  and the sale didnt  complete.  Mr W raised a complaint in July 2018 
when he found  out that the property hadnt been  marketed since February  2018.  Mr W is 
concerned that interest is being  applied  to the mortgage account while the property remains 
unsold.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said while the 
property had taken  longer  to sell than Mr W and Mrs W had hoped  this wasnt due to delays 
by Clydesdale. Clydesdale accepted  it made an error when the estate agent stopped 
marketing the property after an offer was accepted in February  2018. It refunded interest for 
four weeks  and offered £100  compensation, which the adjudicator  said was fair. 
Mr W and Mrs W didnt  agree. Mr W said Clydesdale should pay more  compensation as the 
delay in re-advertising the property meant  opportunities to sell the property were missed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Once Clydesdale took possession of the property it had to market it for sale as soon as 
possible and obtain the best price that might reasonably be paid. It had to take into account 
market conditions and the increase in the amount owed  by the customer.  
Clydesdale obtained  valuations and appointed an estate agent to market the property from 
March 2017. It stayed in contact with the estate  agent and responded to feedback. The sales 
price was reduced to try to increase interest in the property. Clydesdale  appointed new 
estate agents  to market  the property in October  2017. I dont think Clydesdale  acted 
unreasonably when deciding the price at which to market the property or caused delays in 
offering it for sale. 
An offer for the property was accepted in early  2018. The buyers mortgage lender raised 
concerns about  the property and this caused  delays which continued into July 2018. 
Clydesdale and its solicitors were in regular contact  with the other parties involved. 
Clydesdale agreed  to reduce the price.  I dont think Clydesdale caused delays or other 
problems with the prospective sale.  
Clydesdale did make an error. The estate agent  it had appointed stopped  marketing the 
property in February 2018, after the offer was accepted. Clydesdale  says the property  
should have been marketed until contracts  were exchanged and its contract with the estate 
Ref: DRN62249292agent requires  this. Clydesdale says it didnt  know the property wasnt  being marketed until 
July 2018. But I think Clydesdale ought  to have known.  Id expect it to be in contact with the 
estate agent during this time about marketing the property  and whether  there  was any 
interest in it. 
Mr W says opportunities to sell the property  could have  been missed while it wasnt being 
marketed. But the evidence doesnt suggest this is likely. The property had been offered for 
sale for nearly a year and only one offer had been received. The property was put back  on 
the market in July 2018. A month later, Clydesdale said thered  been no interest or viewings. 
It said it would look at other ways to sell the property, such  as at auction.
The available evidence suggests  its unlikely there  would have been another offer on the 
property if it had been marketed between February and July 2018.  Its unfortunate  that the 
offer accepted in early 2018 didnt proceed  to a sale and that this took some  months  to 
resolve. But I think it was reasonable for Clydesdale  to continue the process relating to the 
only offer it received  for the property in the hope  the issues could  be resolved.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr W and Mrs W incurred additional interest or suffered other 
financial loss as a result of Clydesdales error. Clydesdale refunded interest (of about  
£3,000) and paid £100 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation paid by 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6224929