K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Sabre Insurance  Company  Limited didnt  offer him a fair valuation for 
his car when  he claimed under his motor insurance.  He also complains that the car was 
returned to him in a damaged condition.
background
Mr S insured  his car with Sabre. Unfortunately,  the car was stolen  in an incident  in which, he 
says, Mr S was assaulted by thieves  who broke  into his home. The car was recovered by the 
police but had been damaged.
Sabre said the car would be written off because the cost of repair was too high bearing in 
mind the value of the car. It offered  Mr S £1,730 as the valuation of the car  from which  it 
deducted the policy excess and the value of the salvage, as Mr S had asked for the car to be 
returned to him. The total amount due to Mr S was around £1,300   which  was less than the 
outstanding premium Mr S owed  under  the policy. So Sabre said Mr S could pay the 
premiums to the broker and it would then send him the settlement,  or it could send  the 
money direct to the broker to offset  against the outstanding premium.
Mr S complained. He said hed only bought  the car a few months earlier  and had paid 
around £2,500  for it. That was the amount  hed insured the car for and that was what should  
be paid to him. He said the valuation was done  almost a year later.  His premiums  were 
calculated based  on the amount hed paid and insured his car for and it wasnt  fair to pay 
less than that. He also said the car had been  returned to him unrepaired and with the 
transponder missing  from the key so he couldnt  start it.
Our investigator thought Sabre had dealt  with the claim fairly, so Mr S asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of the circumstances surrounding  the theft; it must have been a traumatic 
experience for Mr S.
Its unfortunate it took some time before  Sabre could assess his claim. However, given the 
circumstances of the theft as Mr S reported them, I think it was reasonable for Sabre to want 
to investigate what had happened  in particular, by seeing the police reports. There was a 
long delay in the police  providing information,  but that wasnt Sabres fault. I can see it 
repeatedly chased  the police and tried to get the information it needed.
In the end, the police  refused to give Sabre a report because it said it was still investigating  
potential crimes. So Sabre decided to accept the claim in the absence  of the police report,  
which I think was fair.
The damage to the car was fairly extensive, and given its value, it wouldnt have  been  
economic to repair so Sabre wrote the car off. Once  that happens, the car is then usually 
destroyed or sold for scrap, but Mr S said he didnt want that to happen and asked for the 
car back.  It usually has some value as scrap  which  the insurer uses  to recover  some  losses 
Ref: DRN68024872in paying out the claim. Because Mr S asked for the car back,  the insurer couldnt get the 
salvage value,  so I think its fair for Sabre to deduct that from the settlement figure.
Sabre got the settlement figure by quoting the industry valuation  guides. Weve checked  the 
guides and found the same values. The guides allow a valuation  on any date  so although 
the figures were  taken  from the guides  some time after the accident,  the valuation  figure 
used was the value as at the date of the accident.  Weve checked the guides and got similar 
results to Sabre. As the guides are based  on a wide range of actual sales, I think theyre a 
reasonable method to use to estimate the value. And, as Sabre used  the highest value from 
the guides it used, I think  £1,730 is a fair figure.
Mr Ss policy  doesnt insure  him for a particular amount  whether the purchase price  or 
anything else. It insures  him for the market value immediately before the damage happened.  
Its fair to use the industry guides to find the market  value  and I think the valuation Sabre 
offered was reasonable. I appreciate its less than Mr S paid, but I dont know whether what  
he paid matched the cars value at the time  and his insurance didnt cover  him for the 
purchase price, it covered  him for the market value at the time of the accident.  
When a claims  made, the insurer is entitled to expect the premiums to be paid. Insurance 
works by the insurer paying out a claim in return for the insured buying  and paying for  
the cost of the cover. So Mr S does owe the premiums,  and I dont think its unfair for Sabre 
to offset the settlement figure against what he owes.
As Ive said,  Mr S opted to have the car returned  to him rather than see it scrapped. Thats 
why it was returned to him unrepaired;  it wasnt economic to repair it so Sabre offerd the 
cash settlement figure instead. I dont know when the transponder  was removed from the 
key, if it was, but theres no evidence it was removed while the car was with Sabre.  
I do understand why Mr S is upset about everything thats happened. He had his car stolen 
in unpleasant circumstances. Hes been offered less than he paid for it, and now has a car 
thats badly damaged and unusable. But for the reasons  Ive explained, I do think Sabre has 
handled his claim  fairly,  and I dont think its required to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6802487