K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1996 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr K and Miss L say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr K and Miss Ls case.
The policy covered Mr K only so I have  mainly considered his circumstances from the time 
the policy was sold.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make Mr K and Miss L aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  the policy to their mortgage. I cant  be certain what  was said at the 
time Mr K and Miss L applied for their mortgage  and PPI but Nationwide has sent us a copy 
of the available paperwork. Mr K and Miss Ls mortgage application had a separate  section 
for PPI that has been completed  to cover Mr K only under  the policy.  The application form 
has also been signed by Mr K and Miss L in agreement  with the mortgage and additional 
selections that were  made. With this in mind  I think Mr K and Miss L would have been  aware  
that the policy was optional  and they chose to take it. Although I can understand why given 
the time thats  passed that Mr K and Miss L may not remember  this.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr K and Miss L got the information  they needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr K and Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Mr K chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of 
making his repayments  which included sick pay, critical illness cover and death in service  
cover. But the PPI would  have paid out in addition to Mr Ks sick pay and for longer than he 
would have received full pay. The policy would also have covered Mr K for circumstances his 
other policies wouldnt  have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ks circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for Mr K and Miss L if something  went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr K and Miss L off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K and 
Miss L.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr K and Miss L because: 
Ref: DRN68510022Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K and Miss L about that. Because Nationwide  didnt 
tell Mr K and Miss L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K and Miss L have  said - including what  they have said 
about the policy not being suitable for Miss L as she was working less than 16 hours per 
week and therefore  wasnt eligible. But as the policy was taken to cover Mr K only so this 
point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K and Miss L.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr K and Miss L any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K and Miss L 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6851002