K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL)  has turned down his unemployment claim. 
background
Mr W made a claim under the policy after becoming  unemployed. SoL turned down the claim 
as it thought Mr W had been  dismissed because he hadnt met his former employers 
performance standards. It said the policy excludes  dismissal due to an insureds failure  to 
meet standards or targets. 
Unhappy with SoLs decision, Mr W brought a complaint to this service. He said theres no 
proof he wasnt meeting  his previous  employers  performance standards. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  SoLs decision to 
turn down the claim had been  reasonable. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matters been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says the benefit for unemployment  wont be paid if:
7 You are dismissed by your employer because of

d) failing to meet the standards or targets set by your employer
Ive looked at the dismissal letter Mr W received from his former  employer.  This explained  
that his employment was being terminated  because  of regular, repeated and unacceptable  
mistakes. 
Mr Ws former employer  wrote to SoL and confirmed that hed been dismissed because  he 
hadnt met the required standards  of performance. It also included some  notes of concerns 
that had been raised  about Mr W throughout his employment. 
Based on this evidence,  I think it was reasonable for SoL to conclude  that Mr Ws claim fell 
under the above exclusion and turn down the claim.  
Mr W says theres  no proof that his performance didnt meet  the required standards.  He 
thinks his job was actually  made  redundant as his former employer didnt advertise the role 
for eight  months  after he was dismissed. 
Whilst Mr W says theres no proof that he didnt  meet his former employers required 
standards, I think the evidence SoL received from his former employer is sufficient proof of 
this. As the investigator has explained, if Mr W thinks his dismissal was unfair,  then he 
should raise that with his former  employer.  This isnt something that wed look into. 
Ref: DRN63648972Mr W says if we accept  SoLs position, then he has been paying for a policy  that would never 
cover him, and so he has been mis-sold the policy.
I dont agree with Mr W that hes been paying  for a policy  that would never cover him. The 
aim of an unemployment  policy is to cover compulsory redundancy  they dont usually 
cover unemployment  where someone is dismissed because they havent met an employers 
performance standards. However, if Mr W had been made  redundant by his former 
employer, then its likely that benefit would have  been payable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6364897