K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Northern Bank Limited  (trading  as Danske  at the time) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1999 when he took out a loan.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  sold when  Mr M took out a loan in 1999. The policy  
would have cost him £24.16 per month and it would have provided a monthly benefit of 
£195.77 payable  for up to 12 months  per successful  claim.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that the costs and the 
benefits werent made clear. If they had been clearer then she didnt think  Mr M would have  
taken out the policy.  Northern  Bank disagreed with this view and asked that the matter  be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Northern Bank advised Mr M to take out the policy in branch. So that meant it needed to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the PPI was suitable. It also needed to give clear enough 
information so that Mr M could decide for himself whether or not he wanted the policy.
I cant say what Mr M was told when he applied for the loan and the PPI. But Northern Bank  
says a structured interview  would  have been  carried out subject to the applicable  guidelines 
in 1999 and it says Mr M would have been  given all the pertinent information. Northern Bank  
also cant provide  the actual  application  form Mr M completed at the time. But it has provided 
a sample of paperwork which includes a sample loan illustration and loan application  as well 
as an example of a credit agreement. The loan application and illustration are from 2000 - 
the credit  agreement is from an earlier date but Northern Bank confirm they are consistent in 
format and content to those that would have been  provided to and signed by Mr M.
I have carefully looked at these forms. The application form doesnt  mention the cost of the 
PPI  so I dont think Mr M would have  understood the cost when he applied  at the time. And 
the loan illustration provided  sets out a quotation for the loan. At the foot of the second  page 
there is a section headed Payment Protection Plan. The cost is set out as a cost per £5 or 
£100 repayment and the monthly amount but it doesnt set out the benefit it would give for 
the premium Mr M would have to pay. And overall I dont think the costs are clear. They 
appear at the end of the loan quotation so I dont  think  Mr M would have been focussed on 
the cost of the PPI. And I dont think he would have understood he would need  to keep 
paying the premiums  if he had to make a claim. And the credit  agreement sets out the cost 
of the loan but theres nothing on the form about  the cost and the benefit of the PPI. 
Taking into account Mr Ms circumstances, I dont  think Mr M would have  thought it was 
worthwhile paying  for the cost of the policy for the benefit it gave. So I dont think  it was 
suitable for him. And I dont think he was given enough clear  information to decide  whether 
Ref: DRN68973062he wanted it. Overall I think he lost out financially  because of what Northern  Bank did wrong  
and I uphold this complaint.
putting things right
Northern Bank Limited should put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Northern Bank Limited should:
Pay Mr M the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Northern Bank Limited  can take 
off what he got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Northern Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest.  
Northern Bank Limited must give Mr M a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. Northern Bank Limited  should  pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6897306