K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the time that it has taken Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon), to 
complete the transfer of his holdings  to another provider. 
background
Aegon upheld  the complaint. In summary, it said:
The service it provided wasnt satisfactory. It recently upgraded its website and 
experienced an increase in volume  of work, which has meant longer processing 
times.
It delayed the process  by two days in processing  the withdrawal request due to the 
backlog of work. 
It received the withdrawal request  on 24 May, 2018 and started work on the mandate 
by sending a letter to the new provider  requesting Mr Hs bank details. 
It received a response on 14 June and should  have  raised  a sales request on 18 
June to disinvest  the assets,  but it was raised  on 19 June and the assets were 
disinvested on 20 June.  Thereafter  there were no delays. 
It carried out a price comparison  between the date it shouldve  disinvested from the 
asset (18 June) and the date it actually  disinvested  (20 June) and found  that Mr H 
made no loss but a gain of £18.92. 
It offered  £150 compensation  for the trouble  and upset caused.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
Aegon could  have  responded quicker to the letter dated 25 May.  A reasonable 
response wouldve  been seven days. 
Even if it received the letter by 29 May, the response should have been  by 5 June, 
even on a conservative estimate.  So, Aegon delayed the transfer unnecessarily  by 
14 days at this point.  
Aegon accepted that it took a long time to complete  the transfer once it had received 
all the information,  which should have been around four days but it took 39 days  
which makes it a delay of 35 days.  Add to the earlier delay thats 49 days delay in 
total. 
Although Aegon calculated the difference the disinvestment achieved, compared to 
what it wouldve achieved, had things been done  in time, the investigator feels the 
sale shouldve taken  place on 6 August and that Aegon should use that date in its 
calculations. 
He suggested  the following:
oAegon needs to calculate  (A)  which is the value  of Mr Hs investment  on 6 
August.
oIdentify how many units (A) wouldve purchased in Mr Hs new investment 
had they been purchased following the transfer completing on 6 August (B). 
oCompare (B) with the actual number of units purchased (C).
oIf (B) is greater than (C), pay Mr H the difference (D).
oIf the value of (D) is smaller  than what has been paid then no further redress 
is due.  
Ref: DRN66284122A further  £150  compensation  totalling £300  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
 As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me on review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions, for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
Because the complaint  was upheld by Aegon, the issue for me to consider is redress  
whether (or not) the redress, based on its assumptions, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Aegon says,  I think  the 
recommendation by the investigator  is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. I dont think 
Aegon is solely responsible for the delays, but Im not persuaded that the delays are limited  
to two days only.  
It seems  on 4 May 2018,  Mr Hs new provider  sent a transfer request to Aegon. But it was 
sent to the wrong postal address, and the letter was returned. On 25 May, the new provider 
sent a chaser  request. Although again  incorrectly  addressed, the letter  reached Aegon.  
On 19 June, Aegon sent a letter to the new provider explaining that it had received the letter  
dated 25 May, but needed the signed  instructions  which  were  missing from the letter   in 
order to complete the transfer. On 13 July this was provided to Aegon.
On 18 July 2018, Aegon emailed the new provider to say it was unable to send the transfer 
by cheque, and requested its bank details. On 31 July the new provider sent details relating 
to a non-UK bank account. Aegon  received  the correct details on 15 August, and the transfer 
was completed on 24 September. 
In the circumstances, I dont think the redress recommended by our investigator is 
unreasonable. 
I also think the extent  of the delays is greater than was initially  anticipated and so the 
increased compensation for the overall trouble and upset is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I direct  Cofunds Limited (trading as Aegon) to pay redress as calculated below:
oCalculate (A)  which is the value  of Mr Hs investment on 6 August.
oIdentify how many units (A) wouldve purchased in Mr Hs new investment 
had they been purchased following the transfer completing on 6 August (B). 
oCompare (B) with the actual number of units purchased (C).
oIf (B) is greater than (C), pay Mr H the difference (D).
Ref: DRN66284123oIf the value of (D) is smaller  than what has been paid then no further redress 
is due.  
oPay £300 compensation for trouble and upset, less any sum already paid 
towards this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6628412