K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. Mrs T 
says Bank  of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in October 2005. The policy  was 
added to Mrs Ts credit card account when she applied for the card in person. The policy 
cost 78p per £100  of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  Halifax  made it clear  that Mrs T didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement that Mrs T signed in October 2005 
and I can see she chose to take out PPI. And as PPI wouldve appeared on her monthly  
credit card statements,  had it been  added to Mrs Ts account without either her 
knowledge or consent, I wouldve expected her to query this soon after the credit card 
account opened.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs T so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   she 
told us she was employed  and in good health.  And she seems to have had a need for 
the cover  she had no sick pay from her employers  and no savings.
Its possible  the information Halifax gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs T paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs T back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs T now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN68267572my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6826757