K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Santander  UK Plc didnt warn him that an intermediary bank might
charge for their role in an international transfer.
background
Mr L made two transactions to an overseas bank using Santander. When he checked the
statements for the overseas account  he found that as well as the charges  that Santander
made, there  was a further £35 missing  on each transaction.
He spoke to the overseas bank who said that they hadnt done this, and so he asked
Santander. It told him that it hadnt  made this deduction either  it must  have  been  the
intermediary bank.
Mr L thought that Santander was a big bank and should have been  able to make the
transaction directly  without using an intermediary bank. Mr L also thought that it should have
done more to tell him that there would be charges and what  those charges would be.
Our investigator considered that it was standard practice for banks to use intermediary
banks and he didnt  think that Santander had done  anything wrong  in doing so. However, he
did think that Santander should have  set out what the charges for this would be. In these
circumstances, our investigator didnt think that it was fair for Mr L to pay the extra  charges.
So he said that Santander should  reimburse him for the two charges and pay £50 to
compensate him for the frustration and inconvenience.
Santander didnt  accept this. It thinks the terms and conditions of Mr Ls account make clear
that it may use an intermediary bank,  and that bank  may charge. As there  are hundreds  of
different countries, with thousands  of different banks,  Santander  didnt think  that it was
reasonable to be asked  to state what the charges would be in every case. 
I reached a provisional  decision, where I said:
The evidence Ive seen  here shows that Santander acted on Mr Ls instructions correctly.  It
processed the payments in the way he asked and for the correct amounts. Santander
applied its usual fees for doing so, which arent being disputed  by Mr L.
Santander used  an intermediary bank to make  the transaction. Mr L says that, as such a
large business, Santander shouldnt  need  to use an intermediary bank. But its standard
practice in the industry to use intermediary banks  to facilitate international transactions. So
the way Santander made  this transaction is in line with this and it hasnt acted unfairly  or
wrongly in doing so.
Making transactions like these means theres  several different parties involved in facilitating
a payment. Sometimes,  these other parties  will apply their own charges for their role in a
transaction. And from what  Ive seen, thats  most  likely whats  happened  here.  I havent  seen
anything to suggest that Santander itself applied any additional charges beyond those Mr L
was already aware of.
So what  I need to decide is whether Santander shouldve told Mr L that these charges would
be applied. The starting point here is the terms and conditions of the account. These explain
the following:
Ref: DRN626040423. Special Conditions relating to International  Payments
3.1 Third party charges
a) There may be other  third party banks that apply charges in effecting the
International Payment  which may be deducted from the amount transferred by you or
from funds received by you via an International Payment.  This will mean  that the sum
received by the beneficiary or by you may be less than the amount you have sent or
received.
b) If any charges are passed  back to us by a third party bank, we reserve the right to
debit your account with these charges.
I think this is quite a clear explanation to customers that charges such as the ones applied
here could  be applied to transactions like Mr Ls. The terms dont specifically explain when
they will be applied, or that they would be applied in the individual circumstances here. But
nor would I expect them  to  as each transaction is different and theres a large number of
international banks Santander may use. These  intermediaries wont  always apply  charges
depending on the circumstances. So Santander can only warn customers that these charges
may be applied, because ultimately, whether  or not they are is largely out of its hands as a
business.
Ive then considered  whether Santander  shouldve done more  to advise Mr L of these
charges here. But I dont  think  it needed  to. The terms of the account  are clear in explaining
that charges like these  could be applied. Mr L has clearly  made  a number  of foreign
transfers of a similar nature in the past and hasnt incurred these charges. So I can
understand why he was surprised that these were applied  here.
But this doesnt  mean that Santander  could, or should, have told him any more about these
here. There was always information  about  these charges available  in the terms of the
account and I think it was reasonable to think that Mr L was aware of this before making
these transactions.
Mr L made the transactions in a branch. So at best,  it seems  to me that the staff could only
have told him that these  charges might  be applied by an intermediary (not that they definitely
would). The amounts  being transferred here were  quite  large,  especially in relation to the
amount of the charges.  Ive had regard for all that Mr L has said,  but in these  circumstances,
Im not persuaded on balance that Mr L wouldve done anything  differently, even if
Santander did tell him. So in all the circumstances here, Im not minded to tell Santander  that
it needs to refund these charges or do anything else to settle  this complaint.
Santander didnt  respond, but Mr L did. He was unhappy with what Id outlined  in my 
provisional decision. He said (in summary):
Santander is taking  advantage of the situation and it cant  justify sending it through  a 
third party  as they didnt before.
He would have  acted differently if he was told about the intermediaries in the branch. 
He wouldve used  an account he has now which wouldnt have incurred charges like 
these.
Ref: DRN62604043The paperwork hes received about  the transactions  shows that the intermediary 
Santander used  was based  in the UK  which is unfair where both businesses are 
based in the UK.
So I now need to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I want to reassure  Mr L that Ive been able to reach my decision based on the 
information Ive received  from both parties.  I know that Mr L wanted to speak to me directly, 
but I havent needed to do that here to reach a decision  on what I think is fair and 
reasonable.
Ive taken on board all that Mr L has told us here,  but Im not departing from the findings  I 
reached in my provisional decision. But Ill cover the points Mr Ls raised in response to this.
I realise that Mr L thinks Santander  are taking advantage of the situation here. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest thats  the case. Ive mentioned that Santander may not have  
applied these charges before, but that doesnt mean  that it wasnt entitled to do so here.
I appreciate Mr Ls comments that he wouldve acted differently here. But Im still persuaded 
that, in this situation, its most likely on balance that he wouldve proceeded with the 
transactions. I take on board his comment that he wouldve used a different account,  but if 
he had that account at the time then I dont know why he wouldnt have used it for these 
payments too. Especially  where the terms of the account here explain that Santander could 
apply these charges.  And I remain of the opinion that even if Santander told him these 
charges could be applied, that given the amounts involved, he wouldve still proceeded.
Lastly, I can see why Mr L is unhappy that these charges have  been  applied where the 
intermediary may have been based  in the UK. But the terms explain that a third party may 
apply charges and it doesnt specify where  these  would be based. So, I still think its fair that 
Santander apply  them here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6260404