K822xcomplaint
Mr Y complains about the charges  that PSA Finance UK Limited applied to his account when 
he ended  his conditional sale agreement with it.
background 
In 2016 Mr Y took out a conditional sale agreement with PSA for a used car. He said right 
from the beginning the car had some damage which was in line with the age of the car and 
its cash price. In August  2018 he returned  the car to PSAs agents. He said he wasnt  told at 
that point that anything  was amiss.  On the contrary, he was given a receipt when he 
returned the car saying there  was no damage.
A few weeks  later Mr Y was surprised to hear from PSA that it wanted to charge  him for 
repairs to the car. Mr Ys position was some  of the damage was there from the beginning, as 
mentioned above.  Conversely, some of the damage  was new damage,  in the sense that it 
wasnt there when he handed  over the car. Further, some  of what PSA is charging him for 
just amounts to wear  and tear. When Mr Y complained to PSA it waived some  but not all of 
the charges. Mr Y didnt agree that he was responsible for any of this and suggested PSA 
was just trying to make money out of him.
Initially, in its first response, PSA said if the car had damage when he got it he should not 
have accepted it. That was his choice  to make but regardless, it could ask him to bring the 
car up to the standard that it expected. But that said, it did agree to waive some of the 
charges. This was because its agent  had created  a damage report. The report included 
photos. However, the photos did not clearly show all the damage PSA was charging for. On 
reflection, PSA said it would only ask Mr Y to pay for the damage that could be seen in the 
photos. It pointed  out the remaining damage  would lower the sale price of the car. It was 
going to make this loss and the agreement  allowed  it to pass on this loss to Mr Y.
Then in its second  response PSA underlined again  it didnt agree it had done anything  
wrong, but in the spirit of resolution it knocked 25% off the repair bill.
Mr Y remained dissatisfied and came to our service. At that point PSA sent us a further 
goodwill gesture and agreed  to reduce the debt by another £153.39.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ys complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. In short,  he 
thought that PSA had acted fairly  and did not have to waive any more  of the charges.
PSA accepted our investigators  recommendation, but Mr Y did not. In summary, he 
responded to say, he had handed the car back in good condition. Further,  he didnt think  the 
photos we had seen were  of the car. He told us that before he returned the car, he had had 
a mechanic check it over, and the mechanic told him the car was in good condition. Further, 
he thought PSA wanted to charge him too much. In addition  he repeated that PSA had to 
prove the faults were there when he returned the car. He added  hed been  told he had the 
right to request  an independent inspection. He had asked  for this but been told the car had 
been sold. He suggested this contradicted what he had been told before. This is because he 
said PSA had said prior to this that it couldnt  sell the car without doing  the repairs.
Mr Y asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
Ref: DRN67649612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Mr Y and PSA agree that their agreement allows PSA to charge Mr Y for damage  that goes 
beyond wear and tear. However that seems to be about all they agree on here.
Mr Y suggests youd expect a bit of wear and tear with a car that was used when he got it. I 
agree. PSA is in part relying  on the industry guidelines provided by the BVRLA. But Im not 
going to take this into account as it is my understanding this guidance  applies to new cars 
only and we are not dealing  with a new car here.
Mr Y says some of the damage was there  before ever he got the car. PSA suggests that 
even if that were so, he is still responsible to make  sure the car comes  up to the standard  it 
expects. PSA also suggests that is was Mr Ys lookout really  if he decided  to accept the car, 
which fell below this standard,  in the first place. I dont agree that is fair and reasonable. Id 
not expect Mr Y to put the car into a better condition than it was in when he got it.
That said,  the information Mr Y has provided  to show the damage to the car when he got it 
really does not help him because it does not focus on the damage that PSA is charging him 
for.
Mr Y has sent us the receipt he was given when he handed over the car. But that receipt 
didnt give Mr Y the all-clear which is what he suggests. Rather, it makes it clear  that a full 
inspection is going  to be done once  the expert has moved the car to an appropriate site. I 
find that unsurprising.  
Mr Y tells us about the mechanic who inspected the car for him. I have not seen a report  
from the mechanic.  I think Mr Y has had a fair opportunity to send us this if he wanted to do 
that. I take on board what he tells us the mechanic said. But I have to weigh up the 
mechanics one sentence comment against the detailed report  from the expert.  Im not 
saying the mechanic wasnt an expert too, although I have seen nothing about his specific 
qualifications. But in the circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable to place more  weight  
on the detailed  written report with photos than on the comment  from the mechanic.
Ref: DRN67649613Mr Y says that at least one of the photos is not of his car. I dont find it likely that a 
professional third party would either knowingly or carelessly take photos of the wrong car or 
put them in the report. On balance I think that the photos are of the relevant car. 
Mr Y thinks  PSA is charging too much  for some  of the damage. He tells us he has been  told 
some of the repairs could  be done  for less. That may be so. But I dont agree that on the 
face of it the charges are so disproportionate that it would  not be fair and reasonable to allow 
PSA to charge Mr Y this amount.  
It seems  that the inspection was not done  immediately. So I take Mr Ys point  that it is 
possible that the damage could have been done while the car was with agent.  But some of 
the faults PSA wants to charge for take time to develop. Further, the agent had the car for a 
matter of weeks, Mr Y had the car for many months. In the circumstances, on balance, I 
think it more likely than not that the damage  occurred when he had the car rather  than it.
Ive taken a look at the damage.  I do agree  with Mr Y that PSA cant reasonably expect the 
car to come back without  some wear and tear. After  all, any car driven normally is going to 
have that. But on a fair and reasonable basis I think the damage goes further than might 
reasonably be called fair wear and tear with a car of this age and mileage.  The damage is in 
prominent positions and is likely to have an impact  on the value of the car.
I can see Mr Y questions  some of the explanations  he has been given about resale value 
and the necessity to do the repairs before selling the car. But I dont think that is the point. 
The agreement he entered into freely with PSA allows it to charge him for damage that goes 
beyond wear and tear. That has happened.  The damage was likely to cause the car to lose 
value, so that goes far enough. 
I dont think Mr Y lost out because he wasnt able to inspect the car after the agent took it. 
He could have  asked sooner to inspect the car if that was what  he wanted.  In any event  
nothing I have seen  suggests that the report from the expert was inaccurate or that the 
charges were out of step with normal pricing for this sort of work. That being so, I dont see 
what a second  report would have achieved.
I recognise that PSA has agreed to a goodwill gesture to further reduce the bill for the 
repairs . But because I dont find that PSA is acting unreasonably I would not have asked it 
to make this goodwill  gesture if it had not already done so.
For all of these reasons, I think I have no proper  basis for saying PSA must  not charge Mr Y 
for the damage,  including the damage it has agreed  to waive  the charges for in its latest  
goodwill gesture (the offer to reduce the bill by £153.39). I leave  it to Mr Y if now he wants to 
check on the status of that offer with PSA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I make no award  or direction against PSA Finance UK Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Ref: DRN67649614Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6764961