K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains esure Insurance  Limited  undervalued his car after it was recorded as a total 
loss under his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr Is car was recorded as a total loss after it was damaged in a collision.  esure said initially 
that the pre-accident market value for the car was £6,480. But it then increased this value to 
£6,570. It paid Mr I £6,520, after deducting the £50 policy excess.
Mr I says that the valuation of his car was too low because its based  on price  he could get if 
he had sold his car before the accident  and not on the cost of a replacement. He thinks  
esure should increase its offer by between £500  and £1,000.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  esures 
offer was fair and reasonable. He thought it had been arrived at following our usual approach 
of consulting the motor-trade guides  and esure  had paid Mr I a fair value for his car.
Mr I disagrees  and has asked for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr I but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator  for much the same reasons.
I can understand that Mr I is disappointed  with esures offer. I see he thinks  an assessment 
of the market value  of his car should  include how much hell now have  to pay to replace it. 
This is why he thinks esure  should  increase its offer by between £500 and £1,000. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Is insurance contract offered the pre-accident market 
valuation of his car in the case of total loss (less any policy excesses).  The investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to see whether the insurers offer is within a reasonable range (given that this isnt an 
exact science).
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we compare valuations  from 
motor-trade guides.  These are used for valuing  second-hand  cars.  We find these guides to 
be particularly persuasive, largely  because their valuations  are based on nationwide  
research and actual  sales figures rather than, for example, advertised prices (which may be 
inflated for negotiation purposes). 
I know Mr I looked online for similar cars for sale. These were offered at a higher price  than 
esures valuation.  Comparing the car with a few adverts, online or otherwise, is less likely to 
produce a fair value   not least  because  an advert  for a private sale only shows  the initial 
advertised price, not the final sale price which can often be rather  lower  following 
negotiation, if the car sold at all.
Our investigator thought esures  offer was fair and reasonable. Ive looked at how he came 
to this conclusion.  I can see that he consulted the trade guides,  looking  for cars of the same 
Ref: DRN62504752make, model, condition,  specification and mileage as Mr Is. They  showed  that a fair value 
for Mr Is car would be between £6,315 and £6,560. 
Based on the guides, esure  offered Mr S £6,570.  This is just above  the uppermost  value  
produced by the guides. Weve checked  and verified the estimates the guides  produced.  In 
all the circumstances,  I think  esure has made a fair offer to settle  Mr Is claim.
With all of the above in mind,  Im not persuaded  esure needs  to do anything more here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6250475