K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked his account.  The bank was unable to tell 
him how long the block would  remain in place and gave him incorrect information about  
payment of direct debits  in the meantime.
background
In March 2019 Mr P received a payment of £160 into his HSBC account. A few days  later 
another bank  contacted HSBC to say that its customer had alleged  that the payment had 
been obtained fraudulently. HSBC blocked  Mr Ps account and wrote  to him, asking him to 
get in touch. In the meantime, Mr P tried to use his card but the transaction was declined; he 
got in touch with HSBC  to find out why. 
HSBC told Mr P he would  need  to go to a branch with identification to have  the block 
removed. He went to his home branch   a 100 mile trip, as he was working away from home  
at the time. HSBC  couldnt say if or when the block would  be removed; it told Mr P however 
that direct  debits on the account would continue to be paid. 
Following HSBCs further enquiries, the payment  was returned and the block  on the account 
was lifted  eight  days after it was placed. But Mr P said that he had lost income through  
having to visit a branch and that a direct debit was returned, even though  HSBC  said direct  
debits would be honoured.  Mr P had to ask his mother to make the monthly payment for his 
lease vehicle. He thought  he should  be compensated for his loss of earnings,  late payment 
charges and for the inconvenience hed been  put to and the distress hed suffered. 
HSBC didnt agree, and Mr P referred  the matter to this service. One of our investigators  
considered what  had happened, but didnt  recommend that the bank do anything  more to 
resolve Mr Ps complaint. Mr P didnt accept  the investigators view and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
The event that triggered the block on Mr Ps account  was, of course, the payment  of 
fraudulent funds into his account. I stress  that Im not suggesting that Mr P was in any way 
involved in that or that he acted improperly. But, however that payment came to be made, I 
believe it was reasonable for HSBC to investigate  and to block Mr Ps account  while  it did so. 
I think it was inevitable too that HSBC  would need  to discuss  what had happened with Mr P, 
since it was his account that had received the payment. And, since it didnt know the 
background to that, its understandable that the bank was unable to say how long its 
investigation might  take. 
So, whilst I understand  that Mr P may have had to take time off work to deal with this, I dont 
believe it was unreasonable of the bank to want to talk to him or to suspend his account  
while it did so. 
HSBC does accept  however  that it gave Mr P misleading advice about the direct debits 
which were to be paid from his account.  He hasnt shown however  that this caused him any 
Ref: DRN65667092financial loss  for example, by way of late payment fees. It will have put him to the trouble of 
making alternative payment arrangements, of course. But that would have been the case 
even if HSBC had given him correct information in the first place. Of course,  HSBC  should 
have given correct  information, but Im not persuaded in the circumstances here that its error 
justifies a payment of compensation  to Mr P.         
my final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require HSBC Bank UK Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept  or reject  my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6566709