K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
May 2007. Mrs B says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
In this case the sale was done over the telephone  when Mrs B was activating  her card. I 
have a recording of the call which Ive listened  to carefully.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear in the call that Mrs B didnt  have  to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B in the call so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs B got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
I think the information RBS gave Mrs B in the call about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI based  on what she was told - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would  have been  useful  for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - including what she has said about having six 
months full and six months  half sick pay entitlement from her employer and possible support 
from her family. But the PPI paid out in addition to any sick pay she would receive from her 
employer. And RBS wasnt recommending the policy  or advising her to take it, so it was for 
Mrs B to decide if the policy  was right for her in her circumstances. So this point doesnt  
change my decision.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN64852972my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2019
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6485297