K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Miss M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
BOS has provided a copy of Miss Ms signed credit card application which has a printed 
cross in the box next to credit card repayments  cover. From what I know  of how BOS 
sold policies around  this time, I think its likely  the printed  cross wouldve only been  
added after Miss M confirmed she wanted PPI. And this is supported  by there  being  no 
cross in the box to request  card protection. So overall I think  its most likely that BOS 
made it clear  that Miss M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although as Im looking at events from more than fifteen years  ago I can understand why 
she cant remember this.
BOS recommended the PPI to Miss M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she appears to have had a need for it.  
Its possible  the information BOS gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said  including what shes said about  being young 
at the time. But Im afraid that this doesnt  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything  
Miss M paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Miss M back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BOS will make arrangements to pay Miss M now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ref: DRN60919832ombudsman
Ref: DRN6091983