K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about the way Santander UK plc has treated him since his mortgage term 
ended in 2015. He says it has been  unfair  in pressuring  him to sell his house and threatening 
legal action. 
Mr K also complains that Santander  should have told him about the unfolding  2007/2008 
financial crisis  and its implications before he entered into the mortgage.
background 
Mr K took out a mortgage with Abbey  now Santander  in late 2007.  He did so through  a 
mortgage broker, who gave him advice and a recommendation.  He borrowed just over 
£230,000 on an interest-only payment basis over a term of eight years, which  would take 
him to the age of 70. The mortgage offer said Mr K would have an investment in place to 
repay the capital  at the end of the term. The mortgage interest rate was 0.49% above Bank 
of England base  rate.
The mortgage term ended in November 2015, and Santander said it expected Mr K to repay  
the money he had borrowed. Mr K had already put the house  up for sale by then, and he 
said he was continuing  to try to sell it but was concerned about negative equity. 
Santander said it would give Mr K some time to sell the house,  and asked him to keep it 
updated. The parties kept in regular contact but, by November 2016, there had been no 
offers to buy the house. Santander said it would take legal action. Mr K complained. 
Mr K explained that he had found himself in a very difficult  position through  no fault of his 
own, following the financial  crash  of 2007/2008. He hadnt taken out an endowment policy  or 
other investment to repay  the mortgage at the end of the term. He said he had always 
intended to sell the house in order to repay  the mortgage and downsize, but the crash had 
affected both his business and the value of his home. 
Mr K felt Santander was being very unfair in threatening him with repossession and 
homelessness, and its behaviour was not in line with guidance issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  He said he wanted  to sell the house, but it would make financial 
sense for both him and Santander to wait for property  prices in his area to improve.
Santander didnt  think it had done  anything  wrong.  Following our involvement, it said in 2018 
that it would  extend Mr Ks mortgage term by two years, on a different, higher rate of 
interest. Mr K didnt think charging him more  interest  was fair, so he didnt accept that.
Our investigator thought Santander had been reasonable in allowing Mr K time to sell his 
home in 2015  and 2016, and it had discussed  other options with him. He noted  that the 
house had continued to be on the market since, at the same asking price  since  2016, and it 
still hadnt sold. He thought Santanders  offer to extend the term to late 2020  was fair but, in 
the circumstances, he didnt consider it reasonable for Santander to increase  the mortgage  
interest rate.
The investigator recommended  that Santander extend the mortgage term until 27 December 
2020 as it had offered, but at the existing interest rate  that is, Bank  of England  base rate 
plus 0.49%. He also said any concerns Mr K had about the advice he had been given about 
Ref: DRN62499122the mortgage in 2007 would be better  directed  to the broker who sold him the mortgage,  
rather than to Santander.
Santander said it would agree to the investigators  recommendation  in an effort to conclude  
the matter, although this was not in line with its usual  policy.
Mr K said he intrinsically agreed with the investigators proposal, but he hoped the term 
could be extended  further on an open-ended basis. He still thought Santander  or Abbey as 
it was then  should  have  told him about  the banking crisis which  was unfolding  in 2007, just 
before his mortgage completed. He also said the pandemic this year has further  complicated  
matters, and he is still keen to sell the house, which he has continued  to maintain.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr K agreed  when  he took out the mortgage  in 2007 that he would repay  it by the time the 
term ended  in 2015. Theres no dispute  about  that, and so I find that Santander was entitled 
to expect the money it lent Mr K back.  Thats  the contract both parties  signed  up to.
However, thats not the end of the matter. Santander has an overarching obligation to treat 
Mr K fairly and, in the context of his situation and under the FCAs rules and guidance, that 
includes looking at his particular circumstances and best interests when he was unable to 
repay the mortgage. That is set out in the FCA guidance Mr K has referred  to, as well as in 
the FCAs rules of mortgage  regulation  (set out in its handbook under MCOB  specifically, 
MCOB 13.3.4AR requires  it to give consideration to extending the term; 11.6.3(3)R says it 
can do so without regard  to the usual  rules on affordability when doing so for reasons of 
forbearance; and 11.7.3R says it can do so without regard to the normal  rules on interest-
only repayment strategy where doing  so is otherwise in the borrowers best interests). 
Extending the mortgage term is one of the options I would expect Santander  to have 
considered. 
Mr K has pointed  to some  cases where  this service has directed lenders to extend  
borrowers mortgage terms indefinitely. He says this would be an appropriate solution  in his 
case given that he is retired and a victim  of the financial  crisis. We consider each case  
individually on its particular merits and, in some cases, extending a mortgage  term with no 
fixed end date will be an appropriate and fair resolution. However, every case is different, 
and Mr Ks situation is not the same as those in the case  studies he has referred  to. Mr K 
was 70 when the mortgage term ended, and the mortgage documents  were clear about  the 
mortgage term and the expectation  that he would have an investment in place to repay the 
mortgage at the end of that term. In this particular case, I dont think requiring Santander to 
extend the term indefinitely would be a fair and reasonable outcome, or  as Ill go on to 
explain  that it would  be in Mr Ks best interests.
The mortgage application was submitted to Abbey on the basis that the mortgage would 
ultimately be repaid  by way of an investment. Mr K didnt take out an endowment  policy or 
similar investment  alongside the mortgage.  He says the broker knew  his plan was to 
improve, and later sell, the mortgaged property  in order to repay the mortgage and then 
downsize. Alternatively, the money was to come from his business  or other sources  of 
income  but these  plans were ruined by the financial crash.
Ref: DRN62499123I can see that Mr K found himself in a very difficult position. Santanders records say it has 
discussed various options with him over the years, including re-financing elsewhere  using  
equity release and switching  the mortgage to a capital and interest repayment basis   but 
neither is viable in the circumstances because of the loan-to-value ratio on the property and 
the costs. Its records also say it recommended Mr K take independent  financial advice  
which is what I would expect to see in this situation.  I think  its clear  that Santander has 
looked at what  it could do to help Mr K, and has given him considerable time since  the term 
ended to explore  his options. I dont think it took an inflexible or unfair approach.
It appears the only real solution is for the house to be sold, and Mr K accepts that. He has 
said that was always  what he intended to do in order to repay the mortgage, and he has had 
the house on the market for a number of years. Taking possession of a property should be a 
last resort for a lender,  and Santander should  have  allowed Mr K a reasonable period of time 
to sell it himself.  I think Santander did that initially: it didnt take any action for a year after the 
mortgage term ended, because it understood that Mr K was trying to sell. I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Santander to ask Mr K to keep it updated on a regular basis about  his 
progress with the sale, or to ask him to phone it and to write to him about  the further action it 
might take.
Mr K has now had nearly five years  since his mortgage term ended  to sell his house (or look 
at other  options for repaying  the mortgage). As the investigator pointed out, the house has 
been marketed  at the same price for several years. I also note that Santander has 
expressed concern  that the house hasnt been advertised on some of the main  property 
search websites. It may be worth  Mr K consulting with his estate  agent  to see if more can be 
done to find a buyer. In any event, while I can certainly understand Mr Ks keenness  to sell 
for as much as possible, there is no guarantee that the property market will change  in his 
favour so that he gets what he wants for the house. The market  could equally move against 
him. 
I am also mindful that the monthly interest  payments to the mortgage  have been made by 
the Department for Work & Pensions  (DWP) since the term ended. The DWP requires these 
payments  known  as Support for Mortgage  Interest (SMI)  to be repaid, with interest,  if 
there is enough money left after the sale of a property once the mortgage has been  settled. 
So this is a debt that will build up as time goes on and will reduce any money Mr K might 
receive if the house eventually sells for the amount  he hopes.
I find nothing to indicate that Mr Ks circumstances are likely to change,  and I dont think it 
would be in his best interests  for the present situation to continue  indefinitely. In taking that 
view I have considered  everything he has told us, including about his particular 
circumstances and the impact on him of the financial crash.
Santander has agreed to extend the mortgage term to 27 December 2020. For the reasons 
Ive explained,  Im satisfied that is a fair and reasonable resolution in this case  bearing in 
mind Mr Ks particular circumstances and increasing SMI debt, and the time he has already 
had to sell the house since the term ended.  I think that allowing things  to continue as they 
are for longer than this is likely to make  Mr Ks situation worse, because  his overall 
indebtedness will simply continue to increase.
This outcome doesnt conflict with the current FCA guidance related  to the coronavirus 
(Covid-19) pandemic, and the housing market is not locked down or at a standstill at 
present. Santander  has said it will contact Mr K before  December 2020  for an update on his 
position  as is its policy for all interest-only mortgages approaching  the end of their terms  
Ref: DRN62499124and I think thats  reasonable. The FCA expects lenders to keep in touch with interest-only  
borrowers about their plans to repay  their mortgages. 
Finally, Mr K has made  some arguments about the sale of the mortgage in 2007. The advice 
he received about  the mortgage was from a broker, not from Abbey. Santander is 
responsible for Abbeys actions,  but I cant fairly hold it responsible for anything the broker  
told Mr K, including about extending the term later. I also dont  think Abbey withheld 
information from Mr K which it ought to have given him in respect  of the global financial 
situation and the future  impact that might have. The broker  not Abbey  advised  Mr K and, 
in any event, I dont  consider  Abbey  could  reasonably have foreseen  that Mr K might find 
himself in negative  equity and unable to sell his house for the amount he wants some  eight 
years later. I find this isnt a basis on which the mortgage should fairly  be set aside.
I concluded that Santanders  offer to extend  Mr Ks mortgage term to 27 December 2020  at 
the interest rate in his mortgage offer was fair.
responses to my provisional  decision
Santander didnt  say whether or not it accepted my provisional decision, but it had nothing 
further to add. Mr K didnt  accept my provisional  decision and said it was unreasonable. He 
still thought Santander was treating him very unfairly. As well as repeating  some  of his 
earlier arguments, he sent in a number  of documents and said,  in summary:
1)The broker who sold him the mortgage  wasnt independent but was part of Abbeys 
mortgage division.
2)Taking out an investment wasnt a condition of the mortgage,  and he had always 
intended to sell the property, extend the mortgage term or refinance.  The financial crash  
had prevented him from repaying the mortgage as he had planned  and Santander hasnt 
suggested any viable alternative options.
3)He hasnt received  any formal  written offer from Santander to extend  the term to late 
2020. All he has received are threats, and Santander cant press for repossession in 
circumstances where  neither it nor he would benefit.
4)Santander is ignoring the FCAs advice  about helping older borrowers, and this service 
has directed lenders  to extend  other borrowers  mortgage terms indefinitely. 
5)The payments  the DWP is making to the mortgage are irrelevant.  There is no debt 
building up as any debt  would  be written off if the property is sold with no surplus. There 
is no increasing debt to Santander either.
6)He is in his 70s and therefore at risk from the current pandemic. Government  guidance  is 
not to move house, and it cant be fair that he should be made homeless.
7)The financial crash  is the root cause of this complaint. It began before he took out the 
mortgage. Abbeys  failure to disclose it to him has never been directly  addressed,  and he 
is a victim of circumstances beyond his control. The mortgage contract  should  be 
considered frustrated.
Ref: DRN62499125my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Mr Ks further 
submissions havent  led me to come to a different  conclusion from the one I set out in my 
provisional decision, for reasons Ill go on to explain.  Ill deal with Mr Ks points  in the same 
order as Ive set out above.
1)Santander, in common  with many mortgage  lenders, works closely  with mortgage 
brokers or intermediaries. What that means  in practice is that it has agreed to accept 
applications from borrowers referred from those brokers.  But those brokers dont  only 
recommend Santander or Abbey mortgages.  They work with many  lenders, or the 
industry as a whole,  and place different clients with different lenders.
The fact that the broker  in this case was approved to send Mr Ks application to Abbey 
doesnt mean Santander owns  (or Abbey owned) the broker  business. It also doesnt  
mean that Santander  is responsible for the recommendation the broker made to Mr K. 
Im satisfied that it isnt. Its a well-established legal principle that a mortgage broker  acts 
as the agent of the borrower, not the lender. It helps the borrower access the lender, not 
the other way round   and does that for multiple  clients and multiple lenders.
The broker  Mr K used  was acting for him, not for Santander. Santander is not 
responsible for the broker. I havent  considered a complaint  about  the broker here. This 
complaint is about  Santander.
2)Mr Ks mortgage offer said: We understand that you will be using an investment linked 
policy to repay the loan. Mr K says that was never his intention  and there  was no such  
policy. The completed mortgage  application  his broker submitted on his behalf said, 
under Repayment  type, Investment Linked.  This is why the offer referred to an 
investment. Santander didnt  ask for the details of any such policy or require that a policy 
be assigned to it. Rules and guidance  about  mortgage lending at the time didnt require it 
to do so. It was clear that the mortgage  was for a fixed  term and Mr K agreed to repay it 
at the end of that term. Mr K has also said that, given his situation  (which included 
running a successful business) when he took out the mortgage, both he and his broker 
expected that he would  be in a position  to repay  it at term end.
As I said in my provisional decision,  Santanders records say it has since  discussed 
ways of repaying the mortgage with Mr K. I wouldnt,  however, expect it to have given  
him independent financial  advice  that would be for Mr K to take up elsewhere. 
3)Santanders offer to extend the mortgage term to 27 December 2020 at the rate of 
interest in Mr Ks mortgage offer has been  made through  this service, so I wouldnt 
expect it to have  put that offer to Mr K directly  in writing. It is still open  for acceptance. I 
remain of the view that it wasnt unreasonable of Santander to keep in regular contact 
with Mr K about  the sale or to say it may take further action, including legal  action to take 
possession of the property. I dont think this was intended to intimidate Mr K; 
repossession should  always be a last resort, but Santander had an obligation to tell him 
what could happen. If the property were  then to sell for less than the mortgage balance, 
the mortgage debt to Santander would be repaid as far as possible,  and Mr K could be 
held liable  for any shortfall.
Ref: DRN624991264)As Mr K has pointed out, the FCA is concerned about older borrowers and has called on 
mortgage lenders  to develop more flexible products for them.  There  is, however, no fixed  
timescale for that to happen, and I have considered this case  on the basis of matters as 
they currently stand.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  every case  is different. Importantly,  case 
studies and reports of cases weve considered  in the past dont include full details of 
peoples very specific  situations. Mr K has referred  me to case studies involving 
borrowers who were in their 70s when  they took out their mortgages or who appeared to 
be in a different  position at the end of their mortgage  term from Mr K. In making  my 
decision about M Ks complaint, Ive given careful  consideration to his particular 
circumstances and all the circumstances  of this case  as Im required to do. 
5)As I also said in my provisional  decision, the DWP would require the SMI payments it 
has made to be repaid, with interest, if there  is enough money  left after the sale of the 
property once the mortgage has been  settled. I think this is a material consideration 
because it means  that, if the house sells for more than the value of the mortgage 
balance as Mr K thinks it should,  any equity Mr K might have would be reduced  and 
that reduction will grow over time. DWP support is also not guaranteed forever and may 
change, which would  result in arrears  on the mortgage as Mr K cant afford to pay the 
interest himself.
6)I recognise that Mr Ks situation is complicated  by the Covid-19 pandemic. Government  
guidance is changing over time as things change, and the position may vary in different 
parts of the country. I would expect Santander to take account of relevant rules and 
guidance in force  before taking  any action in respect of Mr Ks property. But as things 
stand, Mr K is not being advised to shield  and the property market is open for business.
7)Mr K has provided a timeline  of the financial  crisis in 2007 and 2008. I dont accept that 
Abbey should  have  warned him about unfolding  events or told him not to take the 
mortgage on this basis. There  was no obligation or other duty on it to have done that, 
and it was not his adviser. I also dont accept that it could reasonably have  foreseen  in 
2007 what Mr Ks property might be worth  some eight years later.  
The law is something I take into account  in my decision-making, and Ive considered  
what Mr K has said about the principle  of frustration in contract law. But it doesnt  lead 
me to change my view.  It was always foreseeable that there  would be changes in global 
markets, the local property market and in Mr Ks circumstances over the course of the 
mortgage term. Those things are never  static.  And the financial crash,  which Mr K feels 
strongly is to blame for his present situation,  doesnt mean that his house cant  be sold. 
Rather, he has been unable to sell the house for the price he wants through  what  
appears to have been limited marketing. So the mortgage contract  doesnt appear  to 
have been rendered impossible, or even radically different from what was originally 
expected by the parties.
I must determine this complaint by reference  to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   taking account  of relevant law, rules and guidance, and good 
practice. Mr K wants the mortgage to be allowed to continue until property prices increase  in 
his local area. That might not happen. And, as Ive said, should he be able to get the price 
he wants for the house, the SMI payments the DWP has been making would affect any 
money he might receive from the sale  reducing the assets available to him to assist him in 
finding somewhere else to live. 
Ref: DRN62499127The mortgage term ended some five years  ago. Santander has given forbearance and time 
for Mr K to sell the property himself, but it seems to me that his situation isnt going to 
improve, and any equity  he might  have in the property  is reducing. I encourage him to take 
advice from a debt charity but, in all the circumstances  and for the reasons Ive explained,  I 
dont consider that requiring Santander  to extend the term beyond 27 December 2020 would 
be a fair and reasonable outcome or in Mr Ks best interests.
In light of the Covid-19  pandemic, the FCA recently  issued new guidance with effect from 20 
November 2020.  It sets out the regulators expectations about forbearance and how lenders 
should approach repossessions.  Currently, lenders should not take possession of residential 
properties, except  in very limited circumstances, before 31 January 2021. Santander should 
take this, as well as any future guidance as the situation evolves, into account in its dealings  
with Mr K and treat him fairly. This may give Mr K some extra time to take independent 
advice and keep  Santander informed about  his progress in selling the property.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc has made a fair offer. It should extend Mr Ks 
mortgage term to 27 December 2020,  at the interest rate in his mortgage  offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6249912