K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss representative has complained on his behalf that Mattioli Woods  plc (MW) charged 
fees on his Self Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) that were more  than hed agreed  to.
background
Mr S set up a SIPP with MW in 2014. Mr S says he understood  that annual  charges would 
be no more than 1.1% of the pension funds value.
Mr S transferred the pension fund to a different provider  in 2017. He said that he discovered  
the charges hed paid while the fund was managed by MW were more than hed anticipated.
Mr S complained to MW but his complaint wasnt upheld. The business said it had discussed 
fees with him on a number of occasions,  and it considered the basis  of its fees was clear.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
various documents provided by MW around  the time Mr S arranged  his SIPP  demonstrated 
that fees were  discussed. He didnt consider there was enough evidence  to show that MWs  
annual fees would be contained  to 1.1%  of the fund value.
Mr Ss representative didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, reiterating  that the 
total fees paid by Mr S were higher than had been agreed. So it asked for his complaint  to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr S says he was told verbally  by MW that its annual costs  for managing  the SIPP would be 
no more than 1.1% of the fund value. He also points out that the annual  fee section in the 
client agreement he signed  in July 2014  was left blank.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr S has told me. Ive also reviewed the various  
letters and documents that MW has provided. 
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed  between Mr S and 
MW when  the SIPP was being  arranged. But Ive considered the information that was 
provided to Mr S at the time, to see whether this supports what  hes told me.
It seems  Mr S met with MW in the spring of 2014  to discuss  his retirement strategy. In a 
letter dated  2 April 2014, MW said:
For establishing a SIPP with MW there is a set-up  fee of £895  plus VAT. Thereafter our 
annual fees will be in the region of £2,500 plus VAT which on a scheme  of your size, would  
remain appropriate, being less than 1% of the fund value.
A letter sent in May also said the annual  cost for MWs advice would be in the region of 
£2,000 to £2,500  plus VAT.
Ref: DRN69661522Mr S signed  a client agreement in July 2014.  As Mr S points out, the annual fee section of 
the agreement  wasnt completed so its not possible to tell what  that fee shouldve been. The 
wider agreement sets out in detail the structure  of MWs charges. But these provisions are 
detailed and extensive, and Im not sure it wouldve been obvious to Mr S how his fund 
charges would be calculated.
It seems  Mr S did raise this with MW later in 2014. In a letter  dated  22 October 2014, MW 
said:
I am sorry to hear you feel the position  was not explained clearly  during our meetings over 
the last six or seven  months. As such, I write now to summarise the action we have recently 
taken over, as well as outline a concise fee position.
It went on to say:
To this end, we have  two arms to our charging structure, namely:
Administration/advice  time-costed model
Investments  percentage based
Administration and advice
For establishing a SIPP with Mattioli Woods, there  is a set fee of £895 plus VAT.
Thereafter, our annual  time-costed fees are typically in the region of £1,500  to £2,500  plus 
VAT.
Investment fees
Our standard investment  fee is 0.85% per annum, albeit this is only charged to assets under 
investment advice. It is not charged on cashtherefore if you stayed all in cash you only 
pay the administration and advice fees detailed above.
In addition to this, on Portfolio Managements  there  is a 0.25% plus VAT provider  fee and a 
0.25% platform fee, as well as 0.25%-0.75% annual management charges (AMC) this being  
charged by the fund managers within the underlying  investments.
MW has also provided a copy of a phone  note made  following a call from Mr S on 29 
October 2014. The note says:
[Mr S] advised he wanted a further discussion in relation  to fees and to better  understand 
his cancellation  rights. [MW] advised  [Mr S] that he had a 30-day cancellation notice, which  
he was still within and could execute  if he wished to.
[MW] further explained  the fees as highlighted in his recent correspondence  and 
summarised in the pre-retirement pension fund illustration.
[Mr S] advised he did not wish to execute  his right to cancel under the 30-day window and 
he would  contact [MW] if this position  changed.
Ref: DRN69661523When I take all of this evidence into account,  I accept that the basis of MWs  annual fees 
may not have been as clear as it couldve been  when Mr S signed the client agreement in 
July 2014.
But I think the position was clarified in MWs October 2014 correspondence, so that Mr S 
wouldve understood the basis  on which the charges were made. Im also satisfied that MW 
gave Mr S the opportunity to withdraw from the agreement if he wanted to, but Mr S decided 
not to. 
So I consider Mr S accepted the charging basis set out in MWs letter dated 22 October.
Overall, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded there are any reasonable grounds on which  I 
can uphold Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6966152