K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited increased his credit card 
limit. He says at the time of this increase he was struggling to repay all of his debt.
background
American Express offered  to increase Mr Ps credit limit in February 2017. American 
Express say Mr P was given 30 days notice of the increase and advised that he could opt 
out if he wanted. Mr P didnt opt out. But a while after this, he complained  to American 
Express about the financial difficulties he was experiencing.  He feels  they shouldnt have 
increased the limit on his credit card and theyve acted irresponsibly. 
American Express didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. They think theyve acted fairly and in 
accordance with the account terms and conditions. Unhappy with the situation, Mr P referred 
the complaint  to our service. 
An investigator has already looked  at this matter.  Overall she agreed with American 
Express. She thought theyd acted reasonably. Mr P has now asked that his complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
credit limit increase
I note Mr P says he cant remember getting written  notice of the fact his credit card limit 
would increase. But I think American  Express  did write to Mr P and gave him the proper 
notice, in line with the account terms and conditions. Mr P had the option to opt out. But he 
didnt do this.
I think American Express carried  out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr P before 
increasing his credit  limit. In the 6 months prior to the credit  limit increase, Mr P had 
maintained all his payments.  In fact hed been paying more  than the minimum payments 
each month. Mr P hadnt changed how he was using  the credit  card either. Whilst Mr P did 
have other  debt, as I understand, he was maintaining these repayments too. So I dont think  
there were any red flags  that would have concerned American Express.
interest charged and late payment record
Im unable to ask American  Express to refund the interest charged. This was charged in line 
with the account terms and conditions and Mr P has had the benefit  of the money. 
American Express has a responsibility  to record things accurately. And Mr P did miss a 
payment for his credit  card in May 2018. So I wont be asking them  to remove this record.  
financial difficulties 
Ref: DRN63461912As I understand the first point American  Express was likely to have become aware  of any 
financial difficulties Mr P was experiencing was when he missed his credit card payment in 
May 2018. I have very carefully considered  the actions of American Express from this date. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that they acted fairly  in the support they offered Mr P. Putting a 
stop on his account, reducing the interest  rate on the frozen balance to 0% and setting up a 
payment plan, are just a few of the actions that make me feel the matter was handled  
responsibly. 
I do note that Mr P feels credit card companies  use loop holes to get customers into further  
debt. But overall  I consider the actions of American Express  to be fair and reasonable. So I 
wont be asking them to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6346191