K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains about end of contract  charges  when she terminated her agreement with 
PSA Finance Limited.
background
Following termination  of her finance agreement with PSA,  the car supplied  to Miss T was 
inspected. PSA subsequently asked  Miss T to pay charges for damage,  as well as a charge 
for failed  collection.
Miss T disputes the charges. She doesnt  agree with all of them  and feels  that shes being 
charged too much. Shes unhappy about  the failed collection charge and says that the 
collections agent didnt  have her flat number  in order to contact her on the day of collection.
Following a complaint  by Miss T, PSA offered to reduce  the charges by 25% as a gesture of 
goodwill. Miss T wasnt happy with this response  and complained to this service. She wants  
the charges further reduced to £400.
Our investigator said that although two of the charges shouldnt be charged,  the rest were  
fair. He also said the missed collection fee wasnt fair. But having taken account of the 
combined value  of these charges, the investigator  said this resulted in a total figure for 
charges which  was higher than the (reduced)  amount which  PSA had offered to accept. The 
investigator concluded that PSAs  offer to reduce  the charges by 25% was fair and 
reasonable.
PSA disagreed. It said the missed  collection  fee was fair because the collection agent  had 
tried both numbers for Miss T but had been unable  to reach  her.
Miss T didnt agree either. So Ive been  asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Miss T must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which goes  beyond fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  damage to several areas  which PSA says 
goes beyond fair wear  and tear. Theres  also a charge for a missing  key (which is accepted 
by Miss T) and a missed collection fee.
Ive looked carefully  at all the damage and Ive had regard to the BVLRA guidelines  in doing 
so. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that most  of the damage  exceeds fair wear and 
tear and is therefore chargeable.  The exceptions to this are the scuff  on the front right alloy 
Ref: DRN65074662wheel, because Im unable to see this damage in the picture, and the dent on the front right 
door panel because again,  Im unable to see this damage in the picture.
Ive looked at the circumstances  of the missed collection. Miss T has said that the collections  
agent didnt have the correct flat number for her on the day of collection. So she was 
unaware of when the agent attended. Shes said that she contacted PSA afterwards to let it 
know that the agent had the wrong  flat number. She also said that the agent had tried calling 
her work number instead of her personal  number. PSA has said that the agent was provided 
with both work and personal numbers for Miss T and that he attempted to call several times 
but no-one answered.
PSAs records show that, following the inspection, it asked the collections agent which flat 
number he had called at, but it didnt  receive a response.
Because the collections agent hasnt responded with this information, Im unable  to reach a 
conclusion as to whether  he attended  the correct flat or not. However, PSA has said that it 
provided both telephone  contact numbers for Miss T and I think its more  likely than not that 
the agent wouldve tried both numbers.
Because of this Im not persuaded  that the missed collections charge should be waived by 
PSA. Even if it was waived though, this wouldnt make a difference  to my decision, because  
although Im of the view that two of the damage  charges  should  be waived, the offer made 
by PSA to reduce  the charges from £1422.00  to £1066.50 places Miss T in a better position 
than if I were to deduct the charges for the front right alloy wheel and the front right door 
panel from the total charges of £1422.00.
Because of this, I think the offer by PSA to accept £1066.50 is fair and reasonable. If Miss T 
is unable to pay this as a lump  sum,  PSA should  agree an affordable repayment plan with 
her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6507466