K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs M took out in 1997. It was added to her 
existing store card account during a telephone call.
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL didnt respond to the initial assessment, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs M so it didnt have to make sure the PPI was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure she had enough information so she could make a 
choice about whether  she wanted the policy  or not. 
Due to how long ago the sale took place, FICL no longer holds a copy  of a recording or a 
transcript of the telephone  call of the PPI sale so I dont know  what  information Mrs M was 
given about the policy and its exclusions and limitations. 
Mrs M has told us at the time she bought  the policy she was working as a temporary/agency 
worker. 
FICL has supplied a copy of the application form Mrs M completed  when  she took out the 
store card  a few months prior to the PPI being  added to her account. On there she has 
ticked full time and house  person  and stated she had been  working  for three  months when 
asked to give her employment  details. There isnt an option for a temporary or agency  
worker so I think its likely Mrs M selected the options which  best suited her circumstances. 
And from the options that she did select, I think this doesnt automatically  indicate she was a 
full time permanent employee  especially given she has selected she was a house person.
I think this is important  as looking at the terms of the PPI  I can see it excluded  
unemployment claims for people where unemployment was a regular feature of their normal 
occupation and I think this would have applied to Mrs M. And I think  this limitation was 
significant enough that FICL should have highlighted it to Mrs M  Ive seen  nothing  to 
suggest it did.
Ref: DRN68453122I dont think Mrs M wouldve bought the policy  if FICL had given her enough  information 
about it. So, I think Mrs M has lost out because  of what FICL did wrong. 
putting things right
I dont know if the store  card is still open  or if it has been closed. So Ive set out the 
compensation that would  need to be paid out in either  scenario.
if the account is closed:
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  Mrs M 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mrs M 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
if the account is still open:
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs M would owe on her store card if the policy  hadnt  
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owes and what  she would 
have owed.
Ref: DRN68453123If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs M would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs M 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should carry on paying  interest until the point  when Mrs M 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.FICL  should tell Mrs M what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   Mrs M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Financial  Insurance Company Limited must pay 
her compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6845312