K820x#14complaint
Mr H says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr H took out a mortgage at the bank  in 1997  and was sold PPI around  the same  time. The 
policy protected his mortgage monthly  repayments  if he couldnt work  as a result  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with our adjudicators view. Mr H 
mainly complains that he wasnt told he was taking out PPI and he says he wouldnt have 
needed it, so he wouldve  refused it.
He has asked for a review  so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Halifax couldnt provide any of Mr Hs paperwork from the sale.  So Ive seen  nothing  signed 
by Mr H from then to show me how he took out the PPI. But its not surprising, given how 
long ago this sale happened, that documents arent still available.  I wouldnt  reasonably  
expect Halifax or Mr H to have kept these. 
And Ive taken carefully into account  what Mr H remembers about the sale. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  him to recall  exactly what was said at the time. So I cant know exactly 
what was discussed  when Mr H arranged his mortgage and the PPI.
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that Halifax didnt make it 
clear that it was open to Mr H not to choose PPI if he didnt want  to have it, just based on 
what he says now. Halifax says it sold PPI to Mr H during a meeting and that it wouldve 
recommended PPI to him. The mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a 
long period of time. Mr Hs home  couldve been put at risk if he failed  to keep his mortgage 
payments up to date.  So, I can see why Mr H mightve felt PPI was useful to have. And, on 
balance, I think its more  likely that he was persuaded of the need to protect  his home by 
taking out the PPI and he decided to buy the policy.  
Halifax says it recommended the PPI so it had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
cover was suitable for Mr H as well as giving him important policy  information in a clear  way. 
I dont know if or how Halifax assessed Mr Hs needs. But, bearing  in mind everything Mr H 
has told us about  his circumstances at the time, I dont see any reason why the policy 
wouldnt have been suitable. 
Ref: DRN65206932Mr H was eligible for the PPI. He told us that he wouldve had to rely on statutory sick pay if 
he was off work sick. The policy couldve paid out in the event of accident and sickness  for 
up to 12 months per claim. So I can understand why someone in his position mightve 
wanted to be able to take advantage of these policy benefits. And Mr H wouldve also been 
covered for unemployment under the policy. Mr H couldve made repeated  claims on the 
policy,  giving  him long term cover for his mortgage.  
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  Having  PPI wouldve 
meant Mr H could be sure hed be able to keep up the monthly repayments in order to 
protect his home in the long term. Looking  at what Mr H has told us about his circumstances 
at the time, I think PPI was suitable for him.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if there wouldve been any reason why Mr H wouldnt 
have been able to take advantage of all the policy benefits. So, I dont think that knowing 
more about what  the policy didnt cover  wouldve put Mr H off taking out the policy. 
I dont know if the information  Halifax gave Mr H about what  the policy  cost was as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I havent seen anything to suggest that the policy  wasnt  affordable  for 
Mr H. And, looked at overall,  I dont think better information wouldve changed his decision to 
buy the policy given  the benefits  it offered him and his need for PPI. 
This means  that I dont think Mr H has lost out as a result of anything Halifax  did wrong. So it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6520693