K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays  Bank Plc trading  as The Woolwich (Woolwich) acted  
unfairly and unreasonably  in dealing with her request to not to put a new mortgage  product 
in place. She wants the early repayment charge (ERC) repaid.
background
Mrs W had a buy to let mortgage with Woolwich; she had a product due to end in January 
2018. In October  2017, she applied online for a new product and was sent an email  asking  
her for a payslip, which she sent.  Mrs W heard nothing further.
Mrs W then decided to sell the property  and said that she called Woolwich  from work in 
December 2017  to cancel the new product  due to start in January 2018. She said that she 
was told there was no record of the product application and her mortgage was going to move  
onto the standard variable rate. But the new product did start in January 2018  and Mrs W 
was told there was no record of her call in December 2017 and she would have to prove that 
the call happened  (which she said that she couldnt). Mrs W received written  confirmation of 
the new product  in March 2018.  Mrs W sold the property and paid an ERC in April 2018.
Mrs W complained  to Woolwich. It said there  was no record of any call from Mrs W in 
December 2017  or January 2018  from any of the numbers shed provided, including  in her 
account notes.  Woolwich said as there  was no evidence  that Mrs W tried to stop the new 
product being  put into place, it wasnt at fault in following her instructions. But it agreed  that it 
took too long to send written confirmation of the new product and paid £100 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused by this.
Mrs W complained  to us, explaining that she couldnt provide evidence of her call in 
December as her workplace shielded calls for security  reasons. Woolwich said that it had 
also checked its records for November 2017  and there was no evidence  of Mrs Ws call. 
The adjudicators view was that Mrs Ws account of her actions was consistent and she 
placed the property on the market after the new product  started but before the written 
confirmation of the start of the new product was sent to her. He didnt think  that a mortgagor 
would do that unless they believed the application  for a new product wasnt being  
progressed. The adjudicator said that the ERC  should be refunded  minus the difference in 
interest Mrs W wouldve paid if shed stayed  on the standard  variable rate after her first 
product ended in January 2018. He thought £100  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
caused was fair and reasonable.
Woolwich disagreed.  It said that Mrs W hadnt confirmed which  number she allegedly  called 
from in December 2018. Mrs W told the investigator that the number would show as 
withheld. Woolwich pointed out that Mrs W didnt put the property on the market  until after 
the new product  was in place.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN62924602I have to make  my decision on the basis of what is more likely than not to have happened  
between Mrs W and Woolwich as I wasnt present. I can only make such a decision based  
on the evidence  available  to me. Mrs W accepts that she applied for a new product,  signed a 
document to accept  it and sent evidence  to support her application. What  is disputed is 
whether Mrs W called Woolwich to cancel the application and was told that there was no 
need as there was no record  of the application.
There is no record of the call in Woolwichs systems.  There is no record of it in the contact 
notes. Lenders are required to keep  accurate  records.  I think if Mrs W did make such a call, 
there would be at least a note in the contact  records, even if the system  was unable to find 
the call due to the shielding  of calls from her workplace. I note that theres no evidence 
supporting Mrs Ws position that calls from her workplace are shielded or marked as 
withheld. Woolwich says it hasnt been  given  the number, despite asking more than once.
Its also unlikely that there  would be no record of the application in the system, given Mrs W 
applied for a new product and sent information  to support her application  if Mrs W was told 
this, its reasonable  for Woolwich to expect her to question this at the time and for it to then 
place a note about the conversation  in its systems.  Overall, I cant  find that Mrs W cancelled 
the new product  or was told that the application  didnt  exist, or that Woolwich  acted unfairly 
or unreasonably  in starting the new product in January 2018.
I do think its relevant that Mrs W didnt place her property on the market  until after the new 
product was in place.  She chose to go ahead with the sale despite knowing  the new product 
was in place and that an ERC would be claimed. Mrs W also had a buy to let mortgage,  
which is seen as a commercial loan; the expectations upon Woolwich are usually lesser than 
when dealing with residential mortgages. I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable for 
Woolwich to refund the ERC when Mrs W was aware that it would be claimed if she went 
ahead with the sale.
I think Mrs W was caused  trouble and upset  by the delay in sending her the written 
notification of the start of the new product, though I note she accepts that she was aware her 
monthly payment  had changed. I think in all the circumstances of this case  £100  
compensation is fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mrs W made no comment  while Woolwich accepted 
my view. In light of this, I see no reason to change my provisional  view. In any event, I have 
reviewed my earlier decision  and the evidence, and think that my provisional view was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN62924603my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
23 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6292460