K820x#14complaint
The executors,  on behalf of the estate of Mr B, complain that HSBC UK Bank  Plc cooperated 
with a deputy who was appointed to take care of Mr Bs affairs,  and ignored their pre-existing 
power of attorney, granted  by Mr B. 
background
The executors of the late Mr B complained that HSBC may have instigated,  and certainly 
cooperated with, the appointment of a deputy to take care of Mr Bs affairs.  The executors 
felt that Mr B shouldve  been consulted by HSBC  before it cooperated with the court  order 
appointing the deputy. They  also said that even though Mr B had been diagnosed with 
dementia by this time, he would not have  agreed  to a deputy operating his accounts  instead 
of who hed named  in his power  of attorney. The executors  said that HSBCs actions had 
caused two of them to suffer a life changing experience. 
HSBC said a court of protection  order was issued for Mr B. It received that on 20 July 2015. 
That order  overruled the previous power  of attorney, so HSBC  said it was obliged to follow it. 
HSBC said that Mr Bs executors had complained about it acting on this order,  after Mr B 
had died. HSBC  told us it hadnt  responded to the executors  complaint  then,  because  at the 
time they complained, no will and grant  of probate  had been shown to HSBC, so the 
executors didnt have  the authority to deal with this account. HSBC thought it could have 
addressed the issue of why the court of protection order was actioned right away, once 
probate was granted.  But it had now done  that. It said that the order was a legal document,  
and it had no choice  other than to action it. 
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He said once the power of 
attorney was revoked, HSBC acted correctly  in refusing further  instructions from the person 
named on the power of attorney. Our service wont question why or how the decision of the 
court was reached. And we wouldnt expect HSBC to do anything other than follow  the court  
order, so it did have  to act on the instructions  of the deputy who was appointed by the court.  
Our investigator didnt  think, as the executors had suggested, that the court order  was only 
intended to run for ten months. He said it was to run until a new order  was made or until 
Mr B died. When he did die, HSBC waited until it had a copy of the will and the grant of 
probate before it accepted  instructions from the executors. Our investigator didnt think  that 
was unreasonable. And he didnt think that HSBC needed to do anything  differently to 
resolve this complaint. 
The executors didnt agree with that. They  said that if HSBC  had met with them, before court  
proceedings were  started,  it wouldve  seen  that this was unnecessary. They thought  HSBC  
shouldve checked  that they had been  given  the appropriate right of appeal  against the 
order. And they thought that, after Mr Bs death, HSBC shouldve  started  to act on their 
instructions as soon  as a will was provided  to it.
Our investigator didnt  change his mind. He said that HSBC couldnt  refuse  to comply with 
the court order. And we couldnt look at whether the court  had reached  the right decision, or 
whether the deputy had acted in Mr Bs best interests.  Our service cant look at those issues.
The executors wrote  again, to say that HSBC had also failed to activate the power of 
attorney in July 2014. They set out a number of questions they wanted  HSBC to answer. Our 
Ref: DRN68667912investigator explained that this isnt quite how our service  works, and we wouldnt pass on 
questions from the executors  to HSBC. Because the executors hadnt agreed  with our 
investigator, the case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
-Before I begin  to look at this complaint,  I think it might be helpful to set out the basis on 
which Im considering this complaint. The complaint is brought on behalf of the late Mr B, 
and on behalf  of his estate. If I thought  HSBC  had made a mistake  here,  I would think 
about what wouldve  been appropriate to put either  the late Mr B, or his estate, back in 
the position it wouldve been  if the mistake hadnt been  made.
-So Im considering the effect  of HSBCs actions on Mr B, and on the estate. The 
complaint the executors have brought  seems to me to centre mainly  on the effect  of 
HSBCs actions on those who were given  power of attorney, and then later on the 
executors. But neither  the executors, nor those  with power of attorney, are customers of 
HSBC in their own right. They only act on behalf  of the late Mr B and his estate. So the 
effect of HSBCs actions on them, separately  to Mr B or the estate, isnt something that 
our service can consider,  or award compensation for.
-I can look at the steps that HSBC took on Mr Bs account. The executors complain about 
a failure to action  a power of attorney, HSBCs failure to question a court  order 
appointing a deputy, and its delay in accepting the authority of the executors to act.
-The executors  asked why HSBC didnt  implement Mr Bs power of attorney in July 2014. 
HSBCs internal notes  suggest  it felt unable to act on the power of attorney in June 2014, 
because the signature  didnt  match its existing  signature. The evidence that HSBC and 
the executors  have  sent then suggests  that concerns  were  raised  with HSBC by Mr Bs 
care home, and an investigation into Mr Bs capacity began, which ultimately  resulted in 
a deputy being appointed by the court to act for Mr B. 
-The executors  have said HSBC ought  not to have raised  concerns, after it was initially  
unable to accept  the power of attorney signature. They say it should instead have gone  
ahead with a meeting  in July where  they said they wouldve  been able to prove Mr Bs 
capacity, and also prove that no other  action was necessary. But I wouldnt expect HSBC 
branch staff to take it on themselves, in these circumstances,  to make a decision on 
whether Mr B had capacity. I dont know whether or not it was HSBC  who then contacted 
the police, but if it was, I dont  think it would be wrong for HSBC  to raise those concerns 
in that way.  
-Whilst I appreciate that the executors, some of whom were also apparently persons 
authorised to act under the power of attorney,  strongly disagreed with the conclusions of 
this investigation  and ultimately with the decision of the court on this matter,  I dont think 
that HSBC did anything wrong by raising those  concerns about access to Mr Bs 
accounts.
-As a result  of these investigations, and the resulting court  order, a deputy was appointed 
to act for Mr B. Like our investigator, I dont think that HSBC had any responsibility to 
seek to question that order. Again, like our investigator,  I think  that HSBC was positively 
Ref: DRN68667913obliged to accept  it. So, although I appreciate that this is also something the executors 
feel very strongly about, I dont think that HSBC  did anything wrong when it simply 
accepted the instructions of the deputy appointed by the court.
-The executors  have also questioned whether  the court reached the right decision, or 
whether the deputy  did in fact act in Mr Bs best interests. Neither of those issues  are 
points that our service  is able to consider. 
-The executors  also said that HSBC initially failed  to respond to their enquiries  about 
Mr Bs accounts, after his death. I understand that probate  wasnt  granted  until about two 
years after Mr Bs death. I dont think it was wrong for HSBC to wait until it had been 
shown the appropriate  legal authority that allowed the executors to act for Mr Bs estate, 
before it dealt with the executors complaint about the handling of these accounts.  I do 
think it wouldve been better if HSBC had provided a full response to this complaint once 
the executors  were  given the authority to act for the estate. 
-But I explained earlier that I dont think HSBC made a mistake  by following the order  of 
the court. So I just think it wouldve been better if HSBC  had made its position on that 
clear to the executors sooner. Ive not been able to identify that this has had any 
negative effect  on the estate,  so I wouldnt propose to award compensation for this.
-I know that the executors will be disappointed,  but I dont think this complaint should  be 
upheld. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said it had nothing  further to add. The executors wrote to disagree.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
The executors said that Mr Bs signature matched perfectly with previous signatures,  and a 
deputy was not required  for banking purposes at any point. They said that the decision to 
appoint a deputy for Mr B was life changing  for him, and for the people who had power  of 
attorney at the time.  They  said they thought  Mr B had been  defrauded by the deputy. 
The executors repeated  their view that there should  have been  an appeal allowed  after the 
deputy was appointed. They thought that, because Mr Bs signature matched perfectly with 
their records, HSBC  shouldve activated the power  of attorney when it was first asked to do 
so. They  also raised objections to a deputy  being appointed. They thought  that Mr Bs 
account was essentially looking  after itself.  They said the care home  staff were only there  to 
look after Mr B at a personal level, and shouldnt have  involved themselves with his finances.  
The executors said I was right to point out that HSBC shouldve communicated  with them 
before activating  the court  order, to avoid any possible future complaints, but they also 
thought HSBC shouldve contacted Mr B then.  They  said there  was a very negative  effect on 
the last ten months of Mr Bs life, although they didnt explain  how the appointment of the 
deputy had affected Mr B. They were concerned that the deputy had transferred funds to a 
different account,  and paid a large invoice.  
Ref: DRN68667914The executors thought  that I was ignoring  the evidence that theyd supplied,  and protecting  
HSBCs failure  to abide by the legislation. They wanted me to reconsider.
I have considered the new and existing evidence carefully before reaching my decision. But 
Im not drawing the same conclusions from that evidence as the executors. 
The executors said Mr Bs signature on the power of attorney  matched other  examples of his 
signature, and have  sent examples from around  that time. Those signatures do look similar 
to me. But none  of those are the sample  that HSBC was matching against. Ive seen  the 
internal notes that HSBC made  at the time, and Im satisfied  that it did not, initially, activate 
the power of attorney because  of concerns about the signature on it. I dont think HSBC was 
wrong to raise these  concerns, or to take particular care at this point.
I also dont think that it wouldve made  any difference to the outcome  in this case if HSBC 
had activated  the power  of attorney when it was first asked to. Thats because HSBC  then 
seems to have been notified about  concerns for Mr Bs welfare by the care home  staff who 
were looking  after him. Even  if a power of attorney  had been in place and operating  at this 
point, I wouldnt expect  HSBC to ignore those concerns.
Its not my role to comment  on what  care home  staff should and should  not do. And I dont 
know exactly what happened at this point. So I wont comment here on whether any care 
home staff may have  gone  beyond their appropriate role if they raised concerns about Mr Bs 
finances with HSBC. I know that the executors are clear that there was no need to do this. 
But Ive said that once HSBC became aware of any such  concerns, I dont think it was wrong 
for HSBC to cooperate with any investigation, and to follow a subsequent court order.  
I know the executors  think HSBC  then had a number of additional  responsibilities: to make  
sure that the right court  process had been  followed; that an appeal had been  offered to 
those who held the power of attorney for Mr B; and that Mr B was also comfortable  with the 
steps that had been taken. But I dont agree that HSBC had to do these things before it 
followed the order of the court. I think that once the court  order was made, HSBC had to 
follow it. 
The executors also complained that Mr Bs deputy  transferred a large sum of money into a 
commercial account, and paid an invoice with some of this money. Theyve suggested  the 
deputy has acted  fraudulently.  That is a serious accusation, but its not one our service  can 
consider. Its not my role to comment on what the deputy should or should  not do. 
The executors said I was right to point out that HSBC shouldve communicated  with them 
before activating  the court  order, to avoid any possible future complaints. But thats not quite 
what I said. I said I thought HSBC shouldve responded to the executors earlier complaint as 
soon as it had the proper  authority to deal with them. I also said I hadnt been  able to identify 
that this had any negative effect  on the estate,  so I didnt suggest any award  for this. I still 
think the same. 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
The executors have also suggested they wouldnt want me to send them  a final decision if I 
wasnt going to change my mind.  Ive considered whether I ought to contact the executors to 
notify them in advance of this decision, and ask whether  they wished instead to withdraw  
their complaint. But my responsibility is to resolve this dispute  both fairly and impartially,  and 
I dont think contacting one party in this way would be consistent with that responsibility.  
Ref: DRN68667915Ill now make  the decision  that I initially proposed. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors, on 
behalf of the estate of Mr B, to accept or reject  my decision before 23 November  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6866791