K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms H says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 2002. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
FICL had to make Ms H aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding the 
policy to her card. FICL has told us the PPI was added to Ms Hs card during a phone  call 
after she took out her card.
From the evidence provided by FICL I can see that Ms H didnt choose to take PPI when she 
applied for her card. I can also see that the PPI was added  to her card after she applied for 
it. So I think its likely that Ms H did apply for the PPI over the phone. I cant  know for certain 
what was said at the time but Ms H applied the PPI after the card itself so I think  she would 
have known she didnt  have to take the policy and chose to have  it, although I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms H so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms H got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay and savings. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Ms Hs sick pay, and for longer. It would also have protected Ms Hs savings so 
they could be used towards  other  expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms Hs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
my final decision
Ref: DRN63205712I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6320571