K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, gave him loans
that he couldnt afford to repay.  The complaint is brought to this service on Mr Ws behalf by
a claims management  company. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by
Mr W.
background
Mr W was given six loans by Sunny between May 2015 and September 2015. Each of the
loans was repayable in six monthly instalments. All the loans have been fully repaid. A
summary of Mr Ws borrowing from Sunny is as follows:
Loan  
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan  
Amount Loan instalments
1 22/05/2015 29/05/2015 £ 2506 instalments of 
around  £72
2 29/05/2015 12/06/2015 £ 2506 instalments of 
around  £85 
3 12/06/2015 21/10/2015 £ 8006 instalments of 
around £247
4 16/07/2015 17/07/2015 £ 2006 instalments of 
around  £64
5 13/08/2015 21/10/2015 £ 3006 instalments of 
around  £97
6 18/09/2015 25/09/2015 £ 1506 instalments of 
around  £46
Mr W said that Sunny had failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment. He was
dependent on payday loans and stuck in a cycle of borrowing to repay previous loans.
Sunny said it had conducted  creditworthiness checks, assessed  Mr Ws ability  to afford the
repayments, and it considered how he was managing other  debts at that time.  Based upon
these checks it was considered responsible to advance credit.  But having reviewed the 
information provided, it said there were indicators that at certain points during Mr Ws time
with it, that the product may not have  been suitable for his needs. So it offered to uphold the
complaint about  Loans 1 and 2.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt investigate Loans  1 and 2 in view of Sunnys offer. She said that the
checks on Loan 3 went far enough but the checks for Loans  4 to 6 werent  sufficient. She
said that Sunny should have carried out a full financial  review for those loans. She had
reviewed Mr Ws bank statements at the time of Loans 4 to 6 and noted that Mr W didnt
have sufficient disposable income  to repay  those  loans.
Sunny responded to say that it disagreed. For all the applications it had undertaken
eligibility, creditworthiness  and affordability checks. It had asked Mr W for his income  and
expenditure and carried  out a credit check.  It checked the credit reference agency data for
Mr Ws other credit commitments including short term loans  and included  these as
expenditure for the purposes of its affordability  calculations. Sunny said that the loan
Ref: DRN66024052repayments were affordable based  on the income  and expenditure information  and any
additional credit  commitment expenditure it deemed  relevant from the credit  file. With regard
to expenditure,  it asked  Mr W for information about his expenditure on his mortgage,  credit
commitments, travel, food and other commitments. It compared the figures provided to
statistical data and used  the higher of the two values. It also took into account the credit
commitments shown  on its credit check. It also noted that Mr W repaid his loans early.
The adjudicator responded to say that she still didnt agree that the checks  on Loans 4 to 6
went far enough. She noted that the loans overlapped with other loans and the combined
repayments were £312 for Loan  4 and went up to £455 on Loan 6. She said that it wasnt fair
to rely on what Mr W had told Sunny.
Sunny disagreed. It noted that Loan 4 was already paid off when Loan 6 was taken out so
the repayments were  around £390 and not £455.  The repayments  were 17% of Mr Ws
declared income. It didnt  use bank  statements.  Instead it used the expenditure it had seen
at the credit  reference  agencies and that declared by Mr W. Based on its calculations,
Mr Ws disposable income would  have been £660 which was sufficient to make  the
repayments. There was also no indication that Mr W was reliant on the loans. It withdrew  its
offer on Loans 1 and 2.
The adjudicator then investigated Loans 1 and 2 as Sunnys offer was no longer available.
She didnt  recommend that these were  upheld as she said that Sunnys checks  went  far
enough. She still recommended that Sunny should:
- Refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on Loans 4 to 6;
- Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date of
  settlement*;
-Remove any negative information  about Loans 4 to 6 from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to Sunny on 8 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Sunny  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks to make 
sure Mr W could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr W was borrowing, the length  of the
agreements and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks Sunny had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr W borrowed  from Sunny.
Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the customers  ability to
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner without the
customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make repayments  without undue
difficulty, and that this means borrowers should  be able to make  their repayments on time
and out of their income and savings without  having to borrow  to meet these repayments.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. It carried out a credit
check and had provided us with some  information about its credit checks  which  Id referred
Ref: DRN66024053to in my decision. Sunny  had also asked  Mr W for details  of his income and his regular 
expenditure before agreeing each loan.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £250 repayable by six monthly instalments with a highest instalment of
around £72. Mr W had declared an income  of £2,300 and regular  outgoings of £1,000.
Sunnys records appeared to indicate that it had amended  Mr Ws stated expenditure to
£1,246. So Mr Ws disposable income was £1,054. Id not seen anything on Sunnys credit
check which I thought  should have caused it additional concerns. Taking Mr Ws amended
disposable income of £1,054 into account,  it appeared that Mr W would have had
sufficient disposable  income to sustainably  repay  Loan 1. And there was little to suggest to
Sunny at that stage that Mr W wasnt using the loan in the way it was intended  as a short
term solution to a temporary  cash flow problem. So I didnt think Sunny  was wrong to agree
to this loan.
Loan 2
Mr W took out Loan 2 one week  after hed taken out Loan 1 on the date hed repaid  Loan 1.
The loan was again for £250 repayable by six monthly instalments of around £85. Mr W had
again declared an income of £2,300 and regular outgoings of £975. Id noted  that Sunny
appeared to have increased Mr Ws expenditure to £1,391. I didnt know  if this was because
of the information it saw on its credit check.  But taking Mr Ws amended disposable  income
of £909 into account, it appeared that Mr W would  have had sufficient disposable income
to sustainably repay Loan 2. So I thought  Sunny had carried out proportionate  checks  here 
and I didnt think Sunny had done  anything wrong  in giving Loan 2 to Mr W.
Loan 3
Mr W took out Loan 3 around two weeks after hed taken out Loan 2 on the date hed repaid
Loan 2. The loan had substantially increased  to £800 repayable by six monthly instalments
of around £247.  Mr W had again declared  an income of £2,300 and regular  outgoings of
£975. Sunny  appeared to have increased Mr Ws expenditure to £1,206 giving a disposable
income of around  £1,094. Id thought Mr Ws regular and substantially increased  borrowing 
might have caused some concerns to Sunny.  But I also thought the repayment amounts 
were still relatively modest compared to Mr Ws disposable income. So, I still thought  it was 
proportionate for Sunny  to have  considered  Mr Ws disposable income again here, without 
making further checks for Loan 3. So, I didnt  think Sunny had done anything wrong in giving 
Loan 3 to Mr W.
Ref: DRN66024054Loan 4
Loan 4 was for £200 and taken out around a month after Loan 3 which was still outstanding.
The combined highest repayment  for both loans was around £311. Sunnys records again
showed that Mr Ws income was £2,300 and it had increased Mr Ws declared expenditure 
of £1,125 to £1,638. So it said that he had a disposable income of £662.  As Loan 4 was 
Mr Ws fourth loan from Sunny in less than two months and as the joint repayments were  to 
be paid over five months, I thought Sunny might have been concerned by this time that Mr W 
was experiencing financial  difficulties. And I thought Sunny should have also been  
concerned about  the frequency of Mr Ws loan requests especially in view of his relatively 
high disposable  income. I thought they might have suggested to Sunny that Mr W was using  
short term loans as a supplement to his normal income, rather  than using them to meet a 
temporary one-off  problem. So by the time of Loan 4 I thought it would have been 
proportionate for Sunny  to have  asked Mr W whether he was taking short  term loans from 
other lenders at the same time. I couldnt  see that it had done this.
Loan 5
Mr W had repaid Loan 4 the day after he had taken it out. I thought  by this time this 
behaviour might have  caused Sunny some concern. Mr W then took out Loan 5 a little less 
than a month after hed repaid Loan  4. The loan amount had increased to £300. Loan  3 was 
still outstanding.  The combined highest repayment  for both loans  was around £344 which it
appeared needed to be sustained over four months.  Sunnys records  again showed  that
Mr Ws income was £2,300 and it had adjusted Mr Ws declared  expenditure from £1,025  to
£1,638. So it said that he had a disposable income  of £662.
I thought Mr Ws loans  were by this time being  taken  sufficiently regularly to show  that Mr W
was reliant on them.  By this time,  I also thought it should have been clear  to Sunny that it 
could no longer rely on the information Mr W had provided. I thought  the amount and 
regularity of Mr Ws loan applications might have suggested to Sunny by the time of Loan  5 
that it should look in much more depth at Mr Ws true financial situation to assess  the 
affordability of its lending. It couldve done  this in a number of ways. It couldve asked for 
evidence of Mr Ws income  and expenditure such as payslips and bills, or it couldve looked 
at things like his bank  statements.  I didnt think it was proportionate  at this stage in Mr Ws 
borrowing history for Sunny to have still relied  on the information declared by Mr W and that 
shown in its credit checks.
Loan 6
Mr W took out Loan 6 just over a month after hed taken out Loan 5. The loan amount had
reduced to £150  but Loans 3 and 5 were still outstanding. The combined highest repayment
for the three  loans had increased  to £390. Sunnys  records again showed that Mr Ws 
income was £2,300 and it had adjusted Mr Ws declared expenditure from £1,125 to £1,664. 
So it said that he had a disposable  income of £636.  In view of the continued regularity of the 
loans and the increasing repayment amounts, I thought it might have been again 
proportionate at this time for Sunny  to have independently reviewed the true state of Mr Ws 
finances. 
Although I didnt think the checks Sunny  had made  for Loans 4 to 6 were  sufficient, that in 
itself didnt mean that Mr Ws complaint about  these  loans should succeed.  I also needed to 
see whether what I considered to be proportionate  checks would have shown Sunny that 
Ref: DRN66024055Mr W couldnt sustainably afford Loans 4 to 6.
With regard to Loan 4, as Id said above,  I would have expected Sunny to have asked about 
Mr Ws other short term credit commitments whilst  taking into account Mr Ws disposable 
income of £662.  Id reviewed his credit report and couldnt see that Mr W had taken out other 
short term loans which would have been repayable around the same time as Loan  4. I would 
normally also have checked a borrowers  bank  statements for the month before the loan to 
see if there were any other  short  term loans.  But I could  see that we didnt have bank 
statements for the month up to Loan 4. So Id asked the adjudicator  to request these and the 
bank statements for the months before Loans 5 and 6. But Mr Ws claims management 
company said that Mr W wasnt able to provide us with a copy of those statements.
As I hadnt  been  able to see exactly what information Sunny shouldve taken into account
before agreeing to lend Loan 4 to Mr W, I hadnt  been able to get a picture of what Mr Ws
financial situation was like when  he applied for Loan 4. And so I couldnt say that if Sunny 
had completed sufficient checks,  it wouldve  found that Mr W couldnt afford to repay Loan 4
sustainably.
With regard to Loans 5 and 6 I would normally have taken into account a consumers bank
statements for the month before  each loan to see what better checks would have shown. But
unfortunately it doesnt appear that these were received.  That meant I didnt have  a full 
picture of Mr Ws financial circumstances at the time of Loans 5 and 6, so I didnt know what 
Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks.
And so I couldnt say that if Sunny had completed  sufficient checks, it wouldve found  that 
Mr W couldnt afford to repay  Loans  5 and 6 sustainably.
So based  on what Id seen, I couldnt  say Sunny  was wrong to lend to Mr W. But I said that I
would revisit  this assessment if Mr W was able to provide  me with copies of his bank
statements for the relevant period of this lending.
Subject to any further representations by Mr W or Sunny, for the reasons Id explained, my 
provisional decision was that I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
Sunny responded to my provisional decision to say it had no further  information  for me to 
consider.
Mr W responded to my provisional  decision to say he had nothing further to say on the 
matter. He noted that his complaint was initially found in his favour and that it now appeared 
that the initial findings hadnt been taken  into consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr W is disappointed that I didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  But my 
role is to consider  all the available evidence and arguments afresh  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I remain of the opinion 
that Sunny wasnt wrong to give these loans  to Mr W. But if Mr W had been able to supply 
copies of the bank statements Id requested, my decision  might have been different. But it 
doesnt appear that these were received. And so I couldnt conclude that Sunny wouldve 
Ref: DRN66024056found that Mr W couldnt afford to repay  Loans  4 to 6 sustainably if it had completed 
sufficient checks.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6602405