K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained that her insurance broker,  Ageas Retail  Limited, failed to do enough 
to help her make a claim under her personal accident insurance policy after she suffered a 
serious accident in 2008.
background
Miss R held a personal accident insurance policy which had been sold to her by Ageas. In 
2008, she was involved in a road traffic  accident which sadly left her with significant injuries.  
In 2018, Miss R discovered  that she had held the personal accident policy  at the time of her 
accident. She made a claim but the insurer it couldnt consider this because it was unable  to 
establish so long after the event  whether  Miss Rs accident met the policys eligibility criteria 
(Miss R has referred  a complaint about  the insurers decision to us and this is being 
considered separately).
Miss R complained to Ageas. She said it had been made aware of her accident  at the time. 
She felt it should have  done more at that time to help ensure she made a claim under the 
policy.
Ageas didnt uphold her complaint. It noted that Miss Rs sister had contacted  it in 2008 to 
advise it of Miss Rs accident  and it had provided  the sister with details of Miss Rs policy. 
Miss R was unhappy at Ageas response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that by providing  Miss Rs sister  with details of the policy Ageas had met its obligations.
Miss R didnt accept the investigators findings. She considered it should have done  more to 
help ensure she made a claim at the appropriate  time.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Miss R was in a coma for nearly two weeks following the accident. Ageas has provided an 
extract from its records showing that Miss Rs sister  contacted  it during  this period to inform  
it of the accident.  Ageas  provided  the sister with telephone numbers for Miss Rs motor 
insurer, legal  expenses  insurer  and personal  accident insurer.
It is true that Miss Rs sister  wrote  on her behalf  to Ageas a few months later enquiring about 
a potential insurance claim and Ageas responded in connection with the motor  insurance 
policy only. However, I consider that Ageas may have understood from the letter that 
Miss Rs sister was referring specifically to that policy.
It is unfortunate, though entirely  understandable  given the circumstances, that the potential  
to make a personal accident claim was overlooked by Miss R and her family immediately 
Ref: DRN66405052following the accident. I understand why she is frustrated with Ageas. However, on balance,  
I think that by giving the insurers telephone number to Miss Rs sister, Ageas did enough to 
draw attention to the policy. It wasnt obliged to have done more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6640505