K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr E bought the policy in 2001  when  he took a mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage was 
arranged by a broker. Mr E has said Halifax sold him the PPI by post. Halifax  has said it was 
sold by a Halifax mortgage desk. I understand  from Halifax that mortgage desk  sales were  
made by phone with the paperwork being posted.
The Halifax  mortgage  application form Mr E completed with his broker  has a section for 
Insurance requirements where Mr E was asked to put details to allow Halifax  to contact him 
by phone in order,  according to the form, to ensure he had adequate insurance protection  in 
place, including  for his mortgage repayments.  Mr Es details were entered in this section. So, 
from what I have, Mr E was sold the PPI by phone with paperwork being  sent by post.
The mortgage application form Mr E signed  says he was employed at the time as a general 
manager and had been with his employer for around  five years.  Mr E has told us he was 
entitled to less than three  months  full sick pay and at least one months redundancy pay 
from his employer and didnt have anything else to help pay his mortgage if he couldnt work.
From what  Mr E has told us, at the time of the sale he was in good health and hadnt had 
any health issues, but he has told us of some  health issues  he had some years later. 
The PPI policy provided cover for Mr E for accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. From what Halifax has said to us, for a successful claim the 
policy at the start offered  to pay around £285 a month to help Mr E with his mortgage related 
costs and the policy cost a little over £17 a month. Mr E says he claimed  for six months on 
the PPI for unemployment. Halifax says Mr E was paid more than £3000  during the claim. 
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that Mr E took a further advance in 2005. Mr Es 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Es 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr E wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Es representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr E about 
the poor value;  
Ref: DRN61804202The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr E and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr E received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Es. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr E arranged a further advance on his mortgage after mortgage  lending became regulated 
in October 2004   this led to the whole mortgage becoming an FCA regulated  mortgage. 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN61804203This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Es 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. Ive also taken account of relevant law 
in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to negligence,  misrepresentation and 
contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give advice with 
reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty of utmost  good faith; and 
the law relating to causation  and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable  rule of law or 
relevant judicial  authority.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
This sale took place  before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Halifax  was 
required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance when  
considering Mr Es complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN61804204Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr E with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr E sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr E, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr E suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr E and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr E know he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr Es mortgage application form didnt 
include a PPI application section, the PPI was instead arranged  later by phone  and post.  So 
it looks like Mr E wouldve been aware  the PPI was something separate  from the mortgage.  
The mortgage application form said Mr E had to insure his house  for its full rebuilding cost 
but it didnt say he had to insure his monthly  mortgage payments. 
Taking everything into account,  including all Mr E has said,  I think its likely Mr E knew the 
policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr E disagrees. But if Halifax  did give advice, it 
had to do more.  With all this in mind, I think its fair to proceed  on the basis that Halifax  gave 
advice. This means  Halifax  had to advise Mr E with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  the PPI was a suitable  recommendation for 
Mr E. There is no recording of what the adviser discussed in relation to the PPI. This isnt 
surprising now in respect of a 2001  phone sale. The adviser had some limited information  
about Mr Es financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  evidence  to show  the adviser 
took steps to establish whether Mr E had a need  for the cover.
For example, theres nothing to suggest Halifax found out about  Mr Es work  benefits.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr E given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN61804205While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr E, I do think  its more likely  than not the policy was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr E met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr E had a need for the policy   allowing for his work sickness and redundancy pay, it 
seems likely hed suffer a fall in income if he werent working for an extended period. By 
helping him meet  his mortgage related costs,  the policy benefit would help him manage 
the consequences and so help protect his home at what could be a difficult time if he 
were unemployed or too sick to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr E.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr E. There  was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  for him to 
claim. Regarding  pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr E didnt have any at the time of sale 
but the policy didnt exclude claims arising from pre-existing health issues  anyway.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr E were unable to do his or any similar job and unable to do 
any work his experience,  education  or training reasonably qualified  him to do. But it still 
provided valuable  cover given Mr Es circumstances and the loss of income its likely 
hed suffer were  he unable to work  for a time due to disability or redundancy. It protected  
the payments  on Mr Es mortgage,  so I also bear in mind  the potential  consequences if 
Mr E were to have become unable to make the payments  on loans secured on his home.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr E sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Halifax  was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr E was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is the policy would protect his payments if he were  unable to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. 
I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr E would  have taken the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr E agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr E, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr E all the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ref: DRN61804206Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Es representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Es. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Es representative  considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr E about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Es representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr E has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Halifax ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr E? To what extent  did he suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr E. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr E suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not he would have still 
taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr E, I have found the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr E has suffered loss or damage 
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had explained things properly, Mr E 
would have acted  differently or whether he would have taken the policy  in any event. Mr E 
says he wouldnt have  taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case given the 
significant failings  identified above. Ive considered  the representations of both sides  and the 
evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively, the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN61804207The evidence in this case suggests Mr E had some interest in taking  payment  protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised him there was a suitable product he could 
buy that would protect  his mortgage payments if he were unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Es circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr E knew he would have  to pay something  for the 
policy, Ive nothing to show that Halifax told him the exact premium at the point he applied.  
Having said that, I dont think it likely Mr E wouldve taken the PPI without  some  idea of the 
approximate cost. Also if, when he started paying  for the PPI, the cost had been significantly 
at odds with Mr Es expectations at the point  of sale, its possible he might have raised this 
with Halifax or reconsidered his decision.  Instead he paid for the PPI for a number of years.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr E would have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given the exact figure during the conversation in which  he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr E would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Es expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not the policy actually paid more  in the event of a claim than he would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr E thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr E wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr E be unable  to do his 
own or any similar job and also unable to do any paid work his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr E pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr E from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen evidence  to suggest he wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions  disability claims for pre-existing health  
Ref: DRN61804208issues werent excluded,  although Mr E didnt have health issues  at the time, and Mr E was 
in permanent employment. So, I think he still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr E might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr E 
from taking the policy,  Mr E, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mr E had known he could only claim for disability if he were unable  to do his own or any 
similar job and unable to do any paid work his experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking about  what to do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  but, given  his circumstances,  on balance I think  he 
would still have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr E any claim he made  would be limited to 24 months. This may 
have differed from what he expected and mightve hoped  for. But his work sick pay and 
redundancy entitlement were both much less than even 12 months  full pay. In those 
circumstances, I consider it likely Mr E wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 24 
monthly benefit payments would be of benefit and help him manage the consequences if he 
were unable to work in the circumstances covered by the PPI. The policy allowed for multiple 
claims to be made and the benefit  could help reduce  his outgoings  at a difficult  and uncertain 
time and help ensure his home was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr E would still have  taken the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  he thought he was getting and provided benefits that would help him 
manage the consequences  if he were  made  redundant, or unable to work through  accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr E would have  taken 
the policy in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Es representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance is for firms, but it is 
a relevant consideration so I take it into account  along with many other things when I decide 
what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering the purpose of the guidance, I dont 
think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr E would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr E 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN61804209Mr E believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  Even if I am ultimately departing from 
the guidance for firms  set out at DISP  App 3 (which I dont  consider  I am), I am only doing so 
because I do not consider,  in this case, that it would represent fair compensation to put Mr E 
in the position he would  have been in if he had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible he wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not Mr E would still have taken the PPI had he 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  he was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude Halifax  
should pay Mr E compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would  
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware Mr E thinks  Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Halifaxs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Halifax gave Mr E, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Es representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr E and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find Halifax  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr E in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6180420