K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Vanquis  Bank  Limited (Vanquis) didnt cancel a transaction on her 
account. She would  like this to be investigated. And the amount  she lost refunded.
background
Miss O says on 12 May 2018  she paid a £2,200 deposit for a car for her daughter  using her 
Vanquis credit card. Unfortunately her daughter changed her mind about the car that same 
evening. Miss O says she was unable to contact Vanquis to cancel the transaction  until 12 
May 2018. At that point  the money  was still in her account. She says Vanquis didnt cancel 
the transaction. As a result she lost her deposit  and doesnt have the car.
Vanquis said that it investigated  the payment. But it concluded, looking at the merchants  
terms and conditions, that Miss O was liable for the payment. 
Pending its investigation Vanquis  froze Miss Os account so no interest or charges were 
accrued on the disputed  amount. It acknowledged, once it had concluded its investigation,  it 
hadnt unfrozen the transaction amount as it should  have done  so. It did then unfreeze  the 
disputed amount but did not apply any backdated  interest or charges.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found that Vanquis investigated the 
transaction and its decision, based on the merchants terms and conditions, not to refund the 
payment was fair.
Vanquis accepted  this view but Miss O didnt. She said she understood it took three working 
days for a transaction to go through. So, as she contacted Vanquis on 14 May 2018,  she felt 
it had every opportunity  to cancel the transaction  but didnt. She said in the case of 
suspected fraud banks  must be able to cancel transactions  immediately.  She felt it was 
Vanquis responsibility to recover  the money for her.
Our investigator considered Miss Os points  but didnt change  her view. She clarified the 
payment was going through as an approved transaction not a potential  fraud.  So Vanquis 
couldnt cancel  the transaction as the merchant was due to collect the funds. She said Miss 
O would need  to raise  the matter with the dealership she bought the car from.
Miss O didnt  accept this further  view. She felt the investigators view was biased. And that 
she shouldnt be responsible for something  that Vanquis could have prevented.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O feels  strongly about  this and I do understand why. She has paid £2,200 for a car that 
she hasnt got. I can understand why she feels this is unfair. So I do appreciate she is going 
to be disappointed as Ive reached the same  conclusion  as our investigator.
The main  issue I have  to decide is whether Vanquis has done anything wrong. I can see 
from its notes  that Miss O contacted the bank  on 14 May 2018 to cancel the deposit she paid 
for a car. Miss O says she tried to call Vanquis  before then but it doesnt have any record of 
this.
Ref: DRN65402002I have seen Vanquis notes for the call of 14 May 2018. In that call its clear  that Miss O had 
agreed the transaction but then changed her mind. The call handler explained that the 
payment had been approved and couldnt be cancelled. But Miss O could raise a dispute. I 
think that was the correct  advice to give.
I know Miss O has drawn a parallel with fraud  cases where banks would, in her view, stop 
transactions immediately.  But there is no suggestion in the call note that this was a fraud 
issue. It is clear  from the notes that Miss O changed her mind about  the purchase. In 
Vanquis customer contact notes there are details of another  call on 5 June 2018 when Miss 
O says the payment has been fraudulently taken. But by that time the payment had been 
made. Miss O has given us no evidence  of fraud.  Its clear  to me she changed  her mind 
about the transaction. So I dont think its reasonable to expect Vanquis to have acted as it 
would in the case of potential fraud.
Vanquis contacted  the merchant to raise  a dispute which  is what  I would expect it to do. The 
merchant defended its claim referring  to its terms and conditions which state that if the 
vehicle isnt taken  and the balance  paid in an agreed time the contract would be taken as 
repudiated with the deposited sum lost where the sale isnt subject of a prospective  
regulated agreement under the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
Ive seen the order form Miss O signed  which states Miss O will pay the balance of the 
money owing  on receipt of the car . I can see no evidence of there being a regulated  
agreement in place.  I have no evidence that Miss O paid the balance. And she has told us 
that she hasnt  got the car. So I think the merchant was within  its rights  to retain the deposit.  
And therefore Vanquis acted appropriately in not refunding the payment.
As I havent  found  Vanquis to be at fault I cant reasonably ask it to refund the £2,200  
deposit as Miss O would  like. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6540200