K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that they were mis-sold regular premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) by Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS). 
background
Mr and Mrs B jointly took out a mortgage with YBS in 1994  and re-mortgaged  with it in 1996. 
On both occasions they took out regular premium PPI policies to cover  their mortgage 
payments. In the 1994 sale the policy was separate to the mortgage and optional.  While in 
the 1996 sale it wasnt. The policy was part of a mortgage package and Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have been able to get that particular mortgage without PPI. 
Both policies  wouldve  covered  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage payments in the event  they were 
unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost their jobs.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  He thought the 
policies wouldve provided a useful benefit  for them.
Mr and Mrs B disagree. They say it wasnt fair that YBS made taking PPI compulsory. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
YBS had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs B whether PPI was a condition  of the mortgage and 
that they agreed to take it. Understandably, due to the time that has passed  YBS havent 
been able to provide any of the documents from the time of the sales. So Ive had to proceed  
on the basis of what information I have and what I think  is most likely to have happened.
YBS say that in the 1994 sale that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have been able to take out the 
policy without completing a separate application  form for it and that there wouldve been 
nothing on the mortgage offer about  PPI as the mortgage wasnt conditional on taking PPI.
So because Mr and Mrs B had PPI with their 1994  mortgage I think  its likely they had it 
because they completed an application  for it. And as there wouldnt have been anything on 
the mortgage offer about PPI, I think they wouldve understood  it wasnt a condition  of the 
mortgage - as if it was it wouldve been on the offer. 
The PPI taken in 1996 was part of a mortgage  package and a condition of getting that 
particular mortgage.  Mr and Mrs B have given us a copy  of the mortgage quotation where  I 
can see it gives a breakdown of the monthly  costs  of the mortgage including  PPI and 
instructs Mr and Mrs B that All 8 pages of this quotation should be taken  as a whole 
together. I think its clear from this that PPI is included in the mortgage package  that is 
quoted. 
Ref: DRN68671782Mr and Mrs B say that its unfair that they had to take PPI to get the mortgage. But its up to 
YBS to decide  on what terms it will offer certain products just as its up to Mr and Mrs B to 
decide whether  they want to accept what is on offer. If they didnt want  the mortgage  
package on offer they couldve  chosen  a different package or gone elsewhere. So I dont  
think YBS did anything wrong  here by making  PPI part of the mortgage  package.
I dont think YBS advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy.  What this means is that it 
didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs B based  on their individual  circumstances,  it just gave 
them information about PPI and it was up to them to decide  if they needed it. This 
information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so they could  
make an informed choice  about taking out the policy.
I dont know if YBS gave  all the information as it shouldve. But I think  that Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve still taken out both policies because:
They were both eligible for the policies and it doesnt look like they wouldve been  
caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policies 
which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful  claim. 
At the time of the sales  Mr and Mrs B say they were entitled  sick pay and had 
savings they could use to make  their repayments  if they couldnt work.  But the 
policies wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer up to 24 months  if 
they were unable to work due to accident  and sickness and 12 months if they 
became unemployed. 
So I think PPI wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs B in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for them.
Which means Mr and Mrs B arent any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by YBS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Yorkshire 
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019..
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6867178