K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  sold 
alongside a mortgage. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax  at the time) mis-sold him the 
policy. 
background
Mr C was sold the policy in 1994  when he applied for a mortgage. The policy  was designed  
to cover Mr C in the event  that he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  subject to its terms and conditions.
Unhappy with Halifaxs answer to the complaint, Mr C referred it to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at it and came to the view that the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
However, Mr C disagreed with what our adjudicators opinion. So the complaint  has now 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold. I realise  this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, but I hope my explanation helps him to understand  and accept why 
Ive reached this conclusion. 
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr C that the policy was an optional  product. As this sale took 
place a long time ago, the evidence from Mr Cs sale is limited so I cant  know for sure what 
steps Halifax took to make it clear to Mr C that he didnt have to take out PPI with his 
mortgage. 
When evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to make 
my decision  based  on what I think is most  likely to have happened  given  the evidence  
available.
Mr C doesnt appear  to dispute  that he agreed to take out the policy  and it hasnt been 
suggested that he did so only because he thought he had to have the cover. Mr C hasnt  
said much  about what was said and/or done at the time of sale.  And as the sale took place 
over 20 years ago, I have to consider this when weighing up whats  likely to have happened.  
After all, memories can struggle over that sort of timeframe. So, while I accept its possible it 
wasnt made clear to Mr C that he didnt  have to take the policy if he didnt want  to, I find it 
hard to argue that its probable given the limited information available. 
As a result, Im not persuaded  theres  the evidence to say Mr C didnt agree to take the 
policy or that he only agreed  because he thought she had to.
This leaves  me with the rest of the sale to consider. Halifax no longer holds records to show  
how it sold the PPI policy  - Mr C believes the sale took place in branch and has been able to 
Ref: DRN66604052give some  detail around this. Given Mr Cs recollections on this point,  Halifax  has 
subsequently treated  this as a branch sale in which Mr C was advised to buy the PPI policy.  
I see no reason to dispute that. This means  Halifax had to make sure the policy was suitable  
for Mr C given  what it knew  of his needs  and circumstances  at the time. And based  on what  I 
know, I think the policy was suitable. 
At the point of sale in 1994,  it doesnt  look like Mr C would have been affected by any of the 
likely exclusions to or limits on the cover. I acknowledge  that he was entitled to some sick 
pay from his employer and had life cover. But he was taking on a long-term  and significant  
financial commitment on a secured basis. As a result, his mortgage  repayments would have 
been important  repayments to maintain had he found herself  out of or unable to work. And 
as the policy  would  have helped him to make  those repayments over a reasonably  
significant period  of time instead of having to rely on his sick pay (which he could have  used 
elsewhere), I think the policy met Mr Cs needs and circumstances at the time. 
I acknowledge that a few years  after the sale Mr C was unable to claim under the policy after 
he was medically retired.  But there  is nothing to suggest Mr C was suffering from a medical 
condition at the time Halifax recommended  the policy to him so I dont think  this made  the 
policy unsuitable for him. 
As well as making a suitable recommendation, Halifax also had to give Mr C clear  
information. So thats what Ive looked  at next.
Its possible the information given to Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover and for 
the same  reasons I think the policy was suitable  for Mr C, Im not persuaded better 
information about the policy would  have led him to make a different decision and not take the 
cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Lucy Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6660405