K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that an adviser with Dhanda Financial, an appointed representative  
(AR) of TenetConnect  Services  Limited  (Tenet), persuaded them  to give him money  that he 
then stole.  The adviser has since been convicted  of fraud  and sent to prison.  Mr and Mrs S 
feel that as Dhanda Financial was an AR of Tenet,  it is responsible for their losses.
background
Mr and Mrs S became clients of Dhanda  Financial in 2000.  In  2008, as part of the regular 
advice he gave them, Mr and Mrs S say that the adviser recommended  that they sell some 
of their existing regulated  investments.  He recommended that the money  realised should  be 
invested in an overseas  property investment.  Surrenders of regulated  investments and the 
transfer of the proceeds continued until January 2012.
At this point it was discovered that the adviser was defrauding  a significant number of his 
clients.  The  overseas  property Mr and Mrs S and other investors thought  they were 
investing in never in fact existed.  All of the money was used by the adviser for his own 
purposes. The adviser was found  guilty of fraud  and sent to prison.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Tenet.   It said that it wasnt responsible for the actions of its AR.  
Tenet said the overseas property investment was not a regulated investment and because of 
this it wasnt responsible for the actions of its AR.
An investigator looked at the complaint and thought  it was one that we could look at and that 
it should be upheld.   Based on a recent  court case involving the activities of the AR the 
investigator was satisfied that Tenet  was responsible for the actions of its AR.  This was 
based on the fact that whilst  the overseas property investment might not be a regulated 
investment this advice  was inextricably linked to regulated  advice.  Because of this all of the 
advice (both  regulated and unregulated)  was the responsibility of Tenet.
The investigator looked at the 19 transactions involving transfers of money from 
Mr and Mrs S to the adviser.  He concluded  that all but three of these transfers were 
connected to the advised  surrender  of a regulated investment.  His view was that Tenet was 
responsible for 16 of these transactions.
Tenet accepted the investigators  conclusions.   It did, however, query whether transactions 
16 and 17 were not connected to the surrender of regulated investments.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ombudsman service  has dealt  with a significant  number  of cases involving  this particular 
adviser.  One of these  cases has been the subject of a judicial review where Tenet did not 
agree with the approach  taken by the ombudsman  service.   The  judge found  that the 
ombudsmans conclusions about the jurisdiction  of the ombudsman service  were correct. 
Each complaint looked at by the ombudsman service is considered on its own individual 
circumstances and merits.  However,  the court  case has provided useful clarification of the 
responsibilities of a principal for the actions of its ARs.  In broad terms where the AR 
Ref: DRN62505862recommends that a regulated product be sold and the funds  realised either loaned to the 
adviser or invested  in one of his fictitious investments then Tenet  would be responsible.   The 
AR was authorised  to give the advice  to sell the regulated investments and as the fraudulent  
activity was inextricably linked to this regulated  advice, then both activities were the 
responsibility of Tenet.  Where the giving/loaning of money to the adviser is not connected  to 
any regulated investment  advice then Tenet is not responsible for the fraudulent activity of 
the adviser. 
The investigators assessment was based  on the above principles.  He looked  at the 19 
individual occasions when money  was transferred  by Mr and Mrs S to the adviser.   Of the 19 
transactions he concluded that all but three of them were the responsibility of Tenet.  On 
these three  occasions  the money  was transferred to the adviser from Mr and Mrs Ss bank 
account and was not linked to any advice to surrender  a regulated  investment.
The firm also looked at this list, it agreed with most of what the investigator said.  However, 
of the three transfers that the investigator thought  werent linked  to the surrender of 
regulated investments it thought that two of the three transfers were in fact linked.  These 
were described by the investigator as transactions  16 and 17.  
I have therefore  reviewed the full list of transactions. 
Whilst the individual transactions  are listed correctly the total sum is £104,606.53  rather  than 
the £114,606.53 recorded by the investigator.
On 23 June 2011 a regulated investment was partially surrendered.  This surrender 
generated proceeds of £8,500.  A  short time later on 27 June 2011  the sum of £8,000 was 
transferred to the advisers bank account.  The next day a sum of £467 was also transferred.  
These transfers were  labelled by the investigator  as transfers 16 and 17.
Having looked  at all the individual transactions I am satisfied that with one exception  each 
transfer of money  to the adviser  was linked to the surrender of a regulated  investment.  The 
transfer (labelled number 5) on 4 September 2009  was not linked to the surrender of a 
regulated investment.  
There is a clear link in the timing of the surrender and the transfer  to the adviser a short  time 
later.  However, the evidence that the adviser  recommended all of the surrenders  isnt 
entirely conclusive.  On  many occasions the adviser  arranged the surrender and dealt  with 
the product provider  directly  but this wasnt always the case.
Mr and Mrs S, in their original letter of complaint to Tenet wrote:
He advised us to take money  out of our existing secure investments and place  them in this 
new scheme.
The linking of the regulated surrender  advice to the unregulated property advice is a key 
factor in establishing  jurisdiction.  I dont think this would have been apparent to laypeople 
such as Mr and Mrs S.  I therefore consider it reasonable  to assume that this statement is an 
accurate reflection of what happened.
In summary  my conclusions  are as follows:
All of the surrenders of regulated  investments were based on advice  from the AR
Ref: DRN62505863The advice to surrender regulated investments was inextricably linked to the advice 
to invest in the fraudulent property scheme.  This  is therefore  in effect a single piece 
of regulated advice.
Tenet authorised  the AR to give the surrender advice.  Because  of this, as per 
section 39(3) of FSMA, Tenet is responsible for all of the advice
It is without doubt  that advice  to surrender a regulated investment in order  to invest  in a 
fraudulent (non existent) property scheme  was unsuitable advice.  As Mr and Mrs S received 
unsuitable advice  their complaint should  be upheld. 
I am satisfied that it will have been  upsetting  for Mr and Mrs S to lose a substantial  
proportion of their retirement savings.   I consider  the sum of £500 is an appropriate amount 
to compensate them for this.
fair compensation
Had the advice  to surrender their regulated investments not been  given I consider  that Mr 
and Mrs S wouldve  remained in their existing investments.   
So, to work  out what compensation  should  be paid, Tenet should calculate what the 
amounts withdrawn would  now (i.e. at the date of this final decision) be worth, if they had 
remained invested as they were.  This applies to payments  1-4 and 6-19,  (as numbered  by 
the investigator).  This sum should  be paid to Mr and Mrs S.
The exception to this is the payment described  by the investigator as payment  4.  This 
money did not come from the sale of a regulated product but advice to make a withdrawal of 
tax free cash from a pension.  I consider  it more likely than not that this money would have 
remained in a deposit type account but for the advice  of the AR.  
This money  should  be repaid to Mr and Mrs S plus a return based on the performance  of 
Bank of England  fixed rate bonds.  This is the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  
with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England.  The  rate for each 
month is that shown  as at the end of the previous month. This rate should  be applied to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis.
I understand that the adviser has now been  declared bankrupt.  I therefore think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S will recover  any of their money  through other means,  and will not make an 
allowance for that. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S have  received a payment as a result  of a POCA  hearing.  Given 
the sum of money involved and the difficulty in estimating the present value of the original 
investments it is not clear  whether  the redress will exceed the maximum award limit.
If the redress is less than the maximum award, then the POCA payment should be deducted 
from the calculated  redress.   If the redress exceeds the maximum award then,  on the 
assumption that Tenet will not pay any more, then no deduction for the POCA award should 
be made.  If  the underpayment due to the award limit is less than the POCA award then a 
proportionate deduction should be applied so that Mr and Mrs S are fully compensated.    
Tenet should also pay Mr and Mrs S £500  for the upset caused  by the loss of their savings.  
This is subject to the maximum award limit.  
Ref: DRN62505864my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
look at and that it should be upheld.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that TenetConnect 
Services Limited pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My final decision is that TenetConnect Services Limited 
should pay the amount produced by that calculation  up to the maximum of £150,000 
(including distress and/or  inconvenience but excluding costs).
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that TenetConnect Services Limited pays  Mr and Mrs S the 
balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.   TenetConnect Services  
Limited doesnt have  to do what  I recommend.   It is unlikely that Mr and Mrs S can accept 
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.   Mr and Mrs S may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
The POCA  award  should  be treated as described above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6250586