K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that MBNA Limited  will not refund any commission it received from his 
loan payment protection insurance  (PPI) premiums for the policy  he took out in 1999.  
background
In 2018, Mr H contacted  MBNA to complain about  the level of undisclosed commission (and 
profit share)  received by MBNA on his PPI policy attached to a loan.
MBNA explained to Mr H that it had already looked into the sale of his PPI in 2008 and, after 
involvement from the Financial Ombudsman Service,  had upheld  Mr Hs complaint.
MBNA explained that as it had already fully upheld Mr Hs complaint  it did not need to do 
anything further  in relation to the amount  of commission and profit  share it received for the 
PPI policy. This was because when  it offered  compensation it had refunded  everything Mr H 
had paid towards PPI, and this included all the commission and profit  share it received.
Unhappy, Mr H brought his complaint to our service, he remained  concerned  that not all the 
commission had been refunded, particularly  as he had not received a breakdown of the 
refund he received in 2008.  
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Hs complaint and thought MBNA had acted fairly and didnt 
need to do anything further.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) provided  guidance and rules on how businesses  
should approach compensation for PPI when a consumer  complains  about  the sale of PPI. It 
referred to a two-step  approach.  
The first was that a business should  look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer  would  not otherwise have bought  the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second  step was to look to see whether  the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business  created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
The rules  say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission  (and profit  share)  
charged if it upheld  the consumers  complaint that PPI had been  mis-sold (step  1). In other 
words, if a business finds a consumer  wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI they did and offers  to 
put things right on that basis,  it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about  
commission (step 2).
So here, Im satisfied Mr H made  a complaint about a mis-sale  of PPI, which MBNA and this 
service investigated  and upheld in 2008. 
Ref: DRN60683402When MBNA offered  compensation  to Mr H in 2008  it refunded everything Mr H had paid 
towards PPI, and importantly this included all the commission and profit  share it received.
As MBNA had investigated the sale of the policy and upheld it in 2008 with Mr H receiving 
full compensation,  including all the commission and profit share  it received, MBNA  didnt 
have to go on (in 2018) and consider whether the relationship was unfair. I know that Mr H is 
concerned that he never saw a full breakdown  of the compensation that was paid to him in 
2008, and given the time that has passed  since we considered his complaint about  the mis-
sale of the PPI policy, weve not been able to provide  a full calculation  either.  But from what  
Ive seen, I can reassure  Mr H that MBNA did pay him what he was owed in line with the 
guidance for how these compensation  payments should be calculated.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Hs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means MBNA should do something different and I dont think  there is. 
MBNA has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do. So I wont  be telling MBNA to do 
anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6068340