K821x#15complaint
Mr B acquired a new car in November 2014,  by means of a three year hire purchase 
agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS).  He returned  the 
car at the end of the agreement, and MBFS invoiced him for damage and excess  mileage.
Mr B complains that the end-of-agreement charges are, for various reasons, incorrect or 
unfair.
background
The invoiced  charges  were a little over £1,200 for damage, and a little under £170 for excess 
mileage. However  MBFS agreed to reduce the damage charge  by 15% meaning it was 
prepared to accept  a little under £1,200 from Mr B in full and final settlement of its invoice.
MBFS said:
The damage charges  were correctly raised,  being £85 for damage to each alloy 
wheel (£340), £130 for a dented boot lid, £707 for a cracked  rear bumper and £25 for 
a scratched wing.
Mr B might  have had alloy wheel insurance,  but this wasnt a policy  it had any 
involvement in the sale or administration of.
Mr B has provided insufficient evidence  of any mileage already driven at the point of 
delivery to warrant a reduction in the excess mileage charge raised.
Mr B declined to pay the reduced invoice charge, and referred his complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt  think  it should be upheld, saying:
Mr Bs signed agreement required him to return the car in line with MBFSs Vehicle 
Return Standards.
Pictures supplied to us by MBFS showed  that his car fell below these standards in 
several respects.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator  and so his complaint was passed  to me for review  and 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in February 2019. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about  it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances. 
Ref: DRN63414882damage charges
Its not unusual  for a finance provider like MBFS to check at the end of an agreement 
that the consumer  took reasonable care of the car. The trade body that oversees the 
car rental and leasing sector has issued guidance  which outlines what  is considered 
to be fair wear and tear and what is chargeable damage.  In looking at this type of 
complaint and deciding whether MBFS has acted reasonably,  I take account of this 
guidance as I think its a good  indicator of what  damage is fair for a business to 
charge for. However, where  MBFS vehicle return standards  are more generous than 
the industry guidance, I take account of the former.
Mr B was charged for damage to four alloy wheels.
The industry guidance states that in respect  of wheels and wheel trims  that Scuffs 
totalling up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy wheels 
are acceptable.
Having regard to the photographs  provided  by MBFS Im satisfied that the damage to 
all four alloy wheels  exceeds 50mm of the alloy wheel circumference. Having thought 
about that and all the circumstances  here,  Im satisfied that what  MBFS charged  for 
this damage, being £340, was reasonable.
Mr B was charged for damage to a wing.
The industry guidance states that in respect  of paintwork, body, bumpers and trim 
that Scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative to the vehicles 
age and mileage,  and provided the primer or bare metal is not showing.
Having regard to the photographs  provided  by MBFS Im satisfied that the damage to 
the one wing exceeds 25mm. Having  thought  about  that and all the circumstances 
here, Im satisfied that what MBFS charged for this damage, being £25, was 
reasonable.
Mr B was charged for damage to the boot lid
The industry guidance states that in respect  of dents Dents (up to 10mm in 
diameter) are acceptable provided there  are no more than two (2) per panel and the 
paint surface is not broken.
MBFS vehicle return standards states  in respect  of body and paintwork Acceptable: 
minor body dents, typically those caused  by door-to-door contact provided that: a) 
they are less than 13mm  (1/2) in diameter   maximum 1 dent per panel to a 
maximum of4 dents for vehicles over 2 years  [old].
Having regard to the photographs  provided  by MBFS Im satisfied that the dent to the 
boot lid exceeds 13mm  (even if doesnt  exceed 50mm as referred  to by the 
inspector). Having thought about  that and all the circumstances here, Im satisfied  
that what MBFS charged for this damage, being  £130, was reasonable.
Ref: DRN63414883Mr B was charged for damage to a bumper.
The industry guidance states that in respect  of paintwork, body, bumpers and trim 
that Small areas of chipping, including door edge  chipping are acceptable. If the 
areas of chipping require the entire  panel, bumper or trim to be repaired or repainted, 
the damage is not acceptable.
MBFS vehicle return standards states  in respect  of bumpers and body mouldings 
Acceptable: Scuff marks up to 50mm (2), which  do not adversely affect the overall  
appearance of your vehicle. Not Acceptable: Discoloured, loose, cracked,  distorted,  
gouged or split bumpers  and mouldings  that require replacement, plastic welding or 
painting.
Having regard to the photographs  provided  by MBFS Im satisfied that the bumper 
has a crack.  Now I appreciate that Mr B might  hold the view that this crack is only 
minor and the bumper  could have been  left as it was, or repaired, rather  than being 
replaced. But MBFS vehicle return standards state:  if you fail to take reasonable 
care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle  in accordance with the 
manufacturers guidelines and / or the Vehicle Return Standards,  you will have  to pay 
our costs either of repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation. The decision 
to repair  the vehicle or not repair the vehicle rests  with Mercedes-Benz  Financial  
Services UK Limited and / or the retailer or manufacturer  who will undertake  the 
Vehicle Return  Inspection on our behalf.
MBFS has been unable  to confirm the cost to it of replacing the bumper. It says this 
is because its group-billed for multiple repairs on multiple cars. But it has provided 
our service  with a job card that shows the bumper was replaced. Having thought  
about that and all the circumstances,  Im satisfied that MBFS was entitled  to charge 
for this damage and that what it charged for this damage, being £707.47, was 
reasonable.
alloy wheel insurance
Mr B was sold alloy wheel insurance.  This cover was sold by the dealership  to Mr B 
along with guaranteed asset  protection insurance  and minor damage  insurance. The 
cost of these policies was:
alloy wheel insurance £499
guaranteed  asset protection insurance £525
minor  damage insurance £449
total £1,473
Amongst other things Mr B says the policy excess for each  alloy repair wasnt  
brought to his attention.
Now I accept that I cant say for certain  what was discussed between Mr B and the 
dealership about this insurance. But having  looked  at the documents  Mr B says he 
was given, and he himself has provided our service copies of, Im satisfied that on 
the balance of probabilities Mr B knew or ought to have reasonably known in what  
circumstances a claim excess would apply.
Ref: DRN63414884But even if I wasnt of the above  view this cover  was provided to Mr B at no cost. Ive 
come to this conclusion because the total cost of the car (inclusive of insurances and 
other sundries) was £36,623. But this was discounted by the dealership by £4,884, 
including a discount specifically for the cost of all three  insurance  policies of £1,473.
mileage on delivery
Mr B says the car wasnt delivered with zero mileage, although  he hasnt said what  
the mileage was. 
Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities, the recorded mileage on delivery 
was 11. Ive come to this conclusion based on the insurance proposal (for all three 
policies taken out by Mr B) having the cars mileage recorded as 11 and that such  a 
mileage isnt inconsistent  with what I might expect  to see on a brand  new car. 
Furthermore, I might have expected Mr B to have queried with the dealership, on 
taking delivery of a brand  new car, if it had more than say 50 miles on the clock.
maximum/permitted mileage
Mr B also suggests that he was advised,  or understood,  he wouldnt be charged for 
the first 500 miles travelled in excess of 30,000.  Again  I cant say for certain what 
Mr B was or wasnt told by the dealership at the relevant time. But none of the 
paperwork provided by the parties supports what Mr B says on this point. Therefore 
on balance Im not persuaded that Mr B was advised the first 500 miles travelled in 
excess of 30,000 wouldnt be charged  as he submits. 
Mr B doesnt  dispute the recorded  mileage  on the return of the car was 31,553  and 
that the contractual/permitted mileage  was 30,000, with a charge of 9p being  payable 
on each excess mile.
So taking everything into account I think its entirely  reasonable for MBFS to have 
charged Mr B £138.78, this being  1,553  miles (31,553  30,011)  x 9p.
However, what MBFS has charged Mr B is £139.77,  this being 1,553 miles (31,553   
30,000) x 9p with no adjustment  for a delivery  mileage of 11. So I think it should 
reduce the sum its seeking  from Mr B in this respect  by 99p.
interest rate
Mr B says he understood, based on what he was told at the point of sale and saw 
online, that the interest charge for his agreement would be 5.6%, but it was actually 
5.67% (closer to 5.7% than 5.6%).
Again I cant say for certain what Mr B was told at the relevant time. But 
notwithstanding that I think it was entirely  reasonable for an interest rate of 5.67% to 
be referred to as 5.6% or 5.7% in any discussions that took place. The actual rate 
was clearly detailed  in the paperwork  Mr B was presented with and signed.  Therefore 
I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Bs compliant.
Ref: DRN63414885pictures of damage
Mr B says he has never seen pictures  supporting the damage he has been charged  
for by MBFS, particularly in respect  of the bumper. However I understand that these 
pictures have now been  shared with Mr B by our service. It might have been useful if 
these pictures had been shared with Mr B sooner, but I dont think it changes  
anything given Mr B disputes  the charges and damages anyway.
So in summary Im satisfied that MBFS was entitled to charge Mr B what  it did, less 
99p for 11 miles not driven by him.
MBFS responded to say that it agreed  with my provisional findings but thought it would be 
better for me to endorse its damage charge reduction offer (which is still open for 
acceptance by Mr B) rather  than direct it to reduce its excess  mileage charge.
Mr B responded to say that he disagreed  with my provisional findings, but added nothing  
materially new for my consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that MBFS has confirmed that it agrees with my provisional findings (albeit that it 
believes it would be better for Mr B if I was to endorse its damage charge reduction  rather 
than direct it to reduce  its excess mileage charge) and that Mr B has added nothing  
materially new for my consideration I see no reason to depart  form my provisional  findings 
and I now confirm them as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  must  reduce the excess mileage charge its 
seeking from Mr B by 99p, but it need  do nothing  more.
As I noted  in my provisional decision Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited has 
offered to reduce Mr Bs damage charges by 15%. Although I dont direct Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  to stand by this offer, it has confirmed to our service that its 
still available to Mr B if he wishes to accept it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6341488