K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that British  Gas Insurance Limited (BG) isnt performing  an annual 
boiler service every  twelve months.
background
Mr and Mrs W have  a Homecare insurance policy with BG. A benefit  of the insurance is that 
BG carries  out an annual boiler  service. 
Mr and Mrs W complain that BG is doing the annual service later each  year. The length of 
time between the last two annual services was over 12 months. They  say theyve been 
longstanding customers of BG and theyre very unhappy with its attitude.  They  want  BG to 
refund last years  premium as they think theyve paid for a service they didnt have.
BG says its serviced the boiler  once a contract  year, as the policy terms provide.
Our investigator thought BG was arranging annual services in line with the policy  terms.
Mr and Mrs W disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policy says BG will carry out an annual service once a year.  I think  BG can fairly  say 
that means it must  carry out an annual service  once a contract year.  
Ive checked the dates  of the previous annual services from 2015 (when BGs records go 
back to). Its carried  out an annual service  for Mr and Mrs W in each contract year. That 
wont necessarily be once  every  12 months.  Sometimes the annual services  have  been  
slightly more than twelve months apart, sometimes less.
Mr and Mrs W are concerned that they didnt get an annual service for last years premium. 
Im satisfied they have  had the relevant annual services. The 2017  policy  ran from 22 March 
2017 until 21 March  2018. BG did an annual service on 20 November 2017 which was the 
service for that contract year.
The 2018  policy  ran from 22 March 2018 until 21 March 2019. BG did the service on 
28 January 2019.  Although that service was 14 months after the previous service  it was still 
within the 2018/19 contract  year.
BG has acted fairly and reasonably in providing Mr and Mrs W with an annual service each 
contract year.
As our investigator explained, even if BG hadnt arranged a service within  the contract year,  
I wouldnt say BG should refund the whole premium Mr and Mrs W paid. The £252.71 
premium was for the insurance cover  for their central heating  system and boiler as well as 
Ref: DRN63555582the annual service. They had the benefit of that insurance cover  whether or not they made 
any claims against the policy. 
BG may be able to separate out the annual service fee from the total premium. But as I think 
its acted fairly in how its scheduled the annual services it has no reason to do so. BG 
doesnt need to make any refund  to Mr and Mrs W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6355558