K822xcomplaint
M, a small  business, complain that Retail Money Market  Ltd (RMM)  werent  clear  about the 
terms of a proposed  loan and caused  M considerable expense  before they became aware 
that the loan wasnt suitable for their needs.
background 
This complaint has been brought to us on behalf of M by Mr C, a director of the company.
M needed  to borrow a substantial  amount of money  to fund a property development. Their 
broker suggested they approach RMM,  who offer a platform for peer-to-peer  lending.
After some preliminary discussions,  RMM  sent M a letter, with an attached  term sheet, 
making a proposal  for the lending subject to M fulfilling  certain  conditions.
In order to proceed, M had to agree  to pay for a valuation,  a surveyors report and legal fees. 
They did so, in the hope, at the time, that a contract would then be signed and the proposed 
agreement entered  into. The total costs  involved  were over £13,000.
Once that process had been  completed, RMM sent M a contract to sign.  Mr C says it was 
only at this point  that M realised that the total lending would be divided into tranches, the 
delivery of which  by RMM would be dependent on funds being available  on their platform  at 
the time each individual tranche was due.
Mr C says this arrangement was entirely unsuitable for M, who risked  being left with a part 
completed project and no further funding. He says it was only when the final contract was 
provided that it became clear that the whole  of the funding was not guaranteed  at the outset.
M decided not to proceed with the proposed  contract. They complained  to RMM  that theyd 
incurred considerable unnecessary costs  on the basis of the proposal in the earlier letter 
and term sheet  because RMM hadnt  been  clear earlier about the basis  on which  the 
proposed funding was to be offered.
RMM didnt uphold Ms complaint. They said the letter and term sheet were clear  that the 
costs incurred by M were  payable whether  or not the loan agreement was later entered  into 
 and did not commit RMM unless and until the contract was signed.
M were  unhappy with this response and brought  the complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and thought RMM  had done nothing  wrong. He said the letter  and term sheet made it 
clear that the loan depended on sufficient funds being available on the platform at each and 
every stage.
M disagreed  and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman. Because  I disagreed  with 
our investigators view, I decided to issue a provisional decision before I make my final 
decision. This allowed both M and RMM an opportunity to comment  on my thinking and/or 
provide further  information or evidence  before  I issue  a final decision on this case.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN67443622Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RMM offer peer-to-peer funding. Of course, theyre  entitled to determine  the way in 
which they do that. It appears  that with large  and/or extended loans, the funding may 
be delivered in tranches.  Each tranche is dependent on funding being  available   at 
that specific time  on their lenders platform. So the whole  amount  is not guaranteed  
to be available  at the outset.
Theres nothing inherently unfair  or unreasonable about that model,  as long as all 
parties to any agreement understand how it works.
Mr C tells us that kind of funding was entirely  unsuitable for M because  of the risks 
involved if funding were  unavailable  when M went to draw  down a further tranche 
part-way through their project. I have no reason to doubt Mr C when he says this  
and the rationale  he gives  for Ms position is very persuasive.
Given the way the proposed funding worked, M could have been left with a half-
completed project, no further funds to finish it, no way to realise the value of their 
assets and a contractor who might  unexpectedly be without an anticipated flow of 
revenue to keep operating.
It follows that if M had realised how RMMs funding worked at the outset, they 
wouldnt have considered RMM as a possible source of the funding they needed.
In other  words, once  they got the full contract, M immediately realised this 
arrangement wasnt  for them. Theres absolutely no reason  I can imagine why they 
wouldnt have come to that same  conclusion sooner if they had been aware of exactly  
what RMM were proposing.
So, the fundamental question for me, in making this decision, is whether M should 
have been aware   before they incurred the survey and legal costs  that RMM 
operate in the way they do, given the information  provided to them  before  that time by 
RMM. Or, alternatively,  were RMM not clear  enough  about  the nature  of the proposed  
arrangement before  M paid for the survey  and legal costs?
RMM say their modus operandi should have been clear to M. They  rely essentially on 
two grounds for that argument. They say the way their service operates was made 
clear to M during verbal discussions  after M enquired about  the possible funding. And 
they say the letter and term sheet  sent to M with the outline proposal  for the funding 
was clear that the whole  sum was not guaranteed  from the outset.
Theres no record of the verbal conversations that RMM say took place between  
themselves and M. Theres  no dispute that RMMs representatives did meet  with M 
before the letter and term sheet were sent. The main purpose of the meetings 
appears to have been for RMM to assess the proposed project  and Ms reliability and 
plans.
Both RMM  and Mr C have  told us in some detail  what  was discussed in terms of the 
project, the proposed contractor, Ms status  and history etc. Mr C in particular has 
given a very clear  and detailed account  of what happened.
Ref: DRN67443623RMMs representative says he didnt  record the conversation  which is entirely 
understandable  but he would have given  the usual information about RMMs ways 
of working. He says this would have included an explanation of how the model  
worked in terms of the tranches being  released only if the funding was available on 
RMMs platform  at each stage.
Given theres no record of the conversations which took place, I cant say with any 
certainty what RMMs  representative said  or didnt say - to M at the time. However, I 
am convinced, as I say, that M would not have proceeded with their negotiations with 
RMM if they had been aware at the time of the way the funding model operated.  That 
model is clearly unsuitable for their purposes  and was always  going  to be unsuitable  
for their purposes.
Mr Cs communications with us dont  suggest that hed have  any difficulty  
understanding information about funding models or business processes if they were  
clearly explained.  And as I say, I cant see what motivation M might have had to 
continue with the discussions if theyd known how the funding worked. So, Im 
satisfied on balance its unlikely RMMs  representative adequately and clearly  
explained the way their system works to M during their verbal discussions before the 
letter and term sheet  were  issued.
The letter and term sheet,  taken  as a whole, are in my view ambiguous at best. They  
do explain  that M will incur  certain costs at their own risk before RMM commit to the 
contract. They do say the letter and term sheet is only a summary and that further 
terms are in the contract.  And they do say clearly that the funding  would need to be 
available on RMMs platform at the operative  time.
However, there is no clear  and unambiguous  statement  that the different tranches of 
the proposed  funding  are all subject to a check for available funds on the platform  at 
the time each of those tranches are drawn down.
Even if there  were  such a statement in the letter or term sheet, it would be flatly 
contradicted by other parts  of the letter.
In the paragraph relating to funding drawdowns, this says:
Subject to all Conditions  Precedent being  satisfied, an initial drawdown of 
£272,000 net is to be drawn. Further drawings shall  be available [my 
emphasis] thereafter  subject to [RMM] receiving satisfactory certificates  in 
respect of costs and timing from the Project Monitor.
That suggests that only the first drawdown is subject  to the Conditions  Precedent  
and that all further drawdowns are subject only to certain assurances from the Project 
Monitor.
In any case, none of the stated Conditions Precedent relate  to funding being 
available on RMMs platform.  They relate to: RMM carrying out due diligence  around 
the viability of the project; valuations being satisfactory; insurance and warranty  
arrangements; checks on guarantors;  and security and guarantees being  in place.
Ref: DRN67443624Theres further ambiguity  in the letter in that it refers at some points to loans  (plural) 
 which  might be argued to imply that there are a series of loans, all of which  are 
subject to funds  being available on the platform at the time  and at other points to a 
loan. For example, the first paragraph of the letter refers to a...loan facility.  And the 
paragraph headed Purpose refers to the loan facility.
So, taking into account all of the information  contained  in the letter  and term sheet, I 
dont think it would have  been clear to M that RMM  intended that each drawdown 
would separately  have to be checked for the availability of funding  on the platform.
Im satisfied this only became clear to M after they received the proposed contract, 
which very explicitly sets out the way the funding would  work. And that was only after 
theyd incurred survey  and legal costs as set out in their complaint  to RMM.
For the avoidance of any doubt,  Im also satisfied M wouldnt  have incurred those  
costs had they been aware of the way the proposed  funding worked. They  would 
have sought their funding elsewhere.
RMM rightly point  out that there was a warning  in their letter and term sheet that 
those costs might be lost because they were not committed to the agreement  until the 
various checks had been  carried out.
However, the most natural reading of that part of their letter would be that the risk the 
potential customer was taking was that RMM might not proceed on the basis of the 
information resulting  from their due diligence. And thats not the case here. M (not 
RMM) have decided not to proceed because the funding  isnt suitable for them - and 
they would  have made that decision earlier if theyd been fully informed.
So, Im minded to suggest that RMM reimburse M for the costs they incurred after 
they received  the letter and term sheet and before they received the proposed 
contract. From the information  provided so far, these appear  to amount to over 
£9,000. Id be grateful if, in response to this provisional decision, M could set out in 
detail exactly what costs  were incurred (including any VAT).
I also think RMM  should compensate M for the inconvenience  they suffered in this 
case. M spent considerable time and effort in pursuing a funding agreement  with 
RMM after the time at which RMM should reasonably have made their funding  model 
clear. They were also delayed in seeking funding  from alternative sources. On that 
basis, £500 would be appropriate compensation for the inconvenience M suffered.
the responses to my provisional  decision
RMM responded to my provisional decision only to say they had nothing to add.
Mr C responded to set out in detail the costs M had incurred. These amount to £13,445.91. 
Mr C has provided evidence  of these costs. Most were paid through RMM, so they are 
already aware  of the amounts. The only possible exception is the brokers fee  and Mr C 
has provided an invoice  to show that this was £995.
Mr C also said that M will suffer losses due to the development project now finishing later  
by around three months - than it might have done had M not wasted  time pursuing the 
contract with RMM  only to find it wasnt for them.
Ref: DRN67443625my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the comments  provided  in 
response to my provisional  decision.
RMM havent given  me any reason to change my mind, so Im still going to uphold  this 
complaint - for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
Im satisfied from the evidence provided by Mr C that the relevant costs incurred by M come 
to £13,445.91. And given that M have been deprived  of that money since  they paid it out, Im 
going to ask RMM  to add 8% simple interest  to that.
Im also going to ask RMM to pay the £500 compensation I suggested in my provisional 
decision. Im still convinced that M suffered unnecessary inconvenience because they 
pursued the proposed arrangement with RMM for longer  than they would have done if theyd 
known about the operating model at the outset.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr C suggested I might consider further 
compensation. If I understand his argument  correctly, hes saying the projects completion 
has effectively been delayed by around  three  months  which means three  months less 
rental income  because  of the delay  in M finding  an alternative source of funding  after they 
realised the agreement with RMM wasnt for them.
Mr C didnt raise  this with RMM when he complained to them.  And he hasnt raised it with us 
throughout our investigation - until now. To be fair to Mr C, hes recognised this has been 
brought up very late in the day.
In any case, Im not going to ask RMM  to cover Ms alleged lost rental income.  I cant  hold 
RMM responsible for the amount  of time it took M to secure alternative  funding for their 
project. RMM  didnt  have any control  at all over that, or any responsibility for it. 
I also have to bear in mind that, as RMM have pointed out, they gave no guarantees at any 
point that the funding  arrangement would be entered  into. Im satisfied they werent clear 
enough, early enough  about their funding model.  But I dont think  its fair to hold them 
responsible if M didnt  have other  sources  of funding in mind  and ready to turn to as an 
alternative if the arrangement with RMM didnt work out. 
Ref: DRN67443626my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Ms complaint.
Retail Money Market Ltd must: 
pay M £13,445.91  to cover the costs  M incurred unnecessarily; 
add 8% simple interest  to that amount from October 2018 to the date they pay M; 
and
pay M £500 compensation for the inconvenience they suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6744362