K821x#15Complaint
Mr H has complained about the loans he took out with Uncle Buck  Finance LLP trading as 
Uncle Buck.  He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
Mr H took two loans  from Uncle Buck in February and March 2015. A summary  of Mr Hs 
borrowing is shown below: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 24/02/2015 31/03/2015 1 £200.00 £257.60
2 31/03/2015 outstanding 3 £550.00 £277.54
Mr H did not make any payments towards  loan 2. On 4 June 2018  the debt was sold to a 
third party. 
Our adjudicator recommended  Mr Hs complaint be upheld. She felt that the information 
Uncle Buck  gathered showed Mr H was having problems managing his money. The 
information gathered  showed Mr H had active County Court Judgments  (CCJs)  totalling  
around £6,760  as well as a recent  default within the previous  12 months and 5 defaults 
within the previous  3 years. In these circumstances, the adjudicator felt that Uncle  Buck 
ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr H wouldve been able to sustainably repay both 
loans.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree; it said;
Mr H had not continued to take out credit  since his defaults and his issues  appeared 
to be historic.
It did proportionate checks and the information Mr H provided suggested the loans 
were affordable.
Its checks were  detailed and it expected  consumers to be accurate and truthful about 
the information they provided.
As a high risk lender,  it would  still lend based  on some adverse information
Uncle Buck cannot make a lending decision based on what  it cant see
The applicant had to read the pre contract  information before the loan application  
could proceed.
Mr Hs financial  difficulties commenced when he was made  redundant and there was 
no evidence of £9,000 of non-judgement  creditors on his credit file at the time its 
searches. 
Defaults and judgements are not on their own, a reason not to lend.
It will consider  the circumstances as part of our assessments, including recency,  
amount and sector.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 September 2019 explaining why I was thinking  of 
reaching the same outcome as the adjudicator but wanted to explain how the business 
should put things right in more detail.
Ref: DRN60722562Uncle Buck  confirmed receipt  of my provisional decision but has not provided any further 
comments. Mr H did not respond.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness,  I 
have set this out below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Uncle Buck lent to 
Mr H in 2015. The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)  is the specialist sourcebook 
for credit related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer 
credit providers, such as Uncle Buck. Prior  to that, the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) set out the relevant  guidance.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words the assessment  needs  to be consumer-focussed.  It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in the guidance, the risk to the consumer  directly relates to the particulars of the 
lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way.
Ref: DRN60722563Certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Uncle Buck  told us it asked for details of Mr Hs income and expenses.  It also carried  out a 
credit search. Bearing in mind this was Mr Hs first loan with Uncle Buck and taking into 
account the loan repayment in relation to Mr Hs declared income; the checks  - at first glance 
- might have appeared proportionate.
However, the credit search carried out by Uncle Buck indicated  Mr H had two active  CCJs 
totalling over £6,700  dating back to 2009  and 2010. Mr H also had one recent  default  and 
five defaults within the last three years. Whilst the adverse information  was largely historical  
(and it also showed Mr H had not opened  any short term loans  in the previous six months) it 
was a sign, in my view,  that Mr H had had some quite serious problems managing  his 
money over a long period of time.
The report  does show a period during 2012  where Mr H took out and successfully repaid a 
number of other loans.  However, the re-emergence  of defaults in 2013 and 2014  four of 
them were  actually in 18 months prior to the application and at least  three of these appear to 
be short  term loans with outstanding balances of at least £1,000 - ought to have caused 
Uncle Buck  concerns that Mr Hs problems managing money were not historical but rather  
problems managing his finances over an extended period of time. As such  there was a real 
risk that Mr H wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay these loans.
So as a responsible lender, I dont think Uncle Buck should have agreed either loan and 
should put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
Mr H asked, as part of his complaint  that, I quash the loan (in other words - that the business  
nullifies his loan). When a business does something  wrong, Id expect the business to put it 
right by putting the consumer in the position they would  be in if that error hadnt  taken place.  
Mr H wouldnt  have paid interest and charges on loan 1 had it not been granted  (he never  
paid anything towards loan 2) so I would expect  the business to refund that interest. But 
Mr H wouldnt  have had the loans either.  The problem here is that Mr H has used the funds. 
So its simply not possible to put Mr H back in the position he would be in if he hadnt been 
given these loans  in the first place. 
Ref: DRN60722564In circumstances  where I dont think the lender shouldve  given a loan, I would generally still 
expect a consumer  to repay the money  borrowed. This is because  the consumer has had 
the benefit of this money. So typically I wouldnt say the business needed to write off the 
outstanding balance and I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to do so in this case.
I am aware  there is pending  court action being bought by the current debt owner. I cannot 
direct the third party as to what to do and the debt owner is entitled  to chase the debt.  I can 
only direct  Uncle Buck to put things right in a fair and reasonable way.
Ideally Uncle  Buck should buy back the outstanding debt if it is able to do so and then take 
the following  steps. If Uncle Buck is not able to buy the debt back  then it should liaise with 
the current debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards  interest, fees and 
charges on loan 1, not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 2 so only the original  
principal sum Mr H borrowed  remains.  To be clear  this includes removing any subsequent  
interest and charges added by the third party so that only the original loan of £550 remains.  
If Uncle Buck is unable to buy the debt back  it will need to make  a payment to the third 
party to have the same effect.
D) As there is still an outstanding balance on loan 2 then the amounts calculated  in A and 
B should  be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 2.  If Uncle Buck  is unable  to buy 
the debt back   it should pay the sum calculated in A and B to reduce the debt with the 
current debt owner. 
As there will still be an outstanding balance left over then Uncle  Buck should try to agree an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mr H  assuming it is able to buy the debt back.  In doing so 
Uncle Buck  should  treat Mr H positively and sympathetically and Mr H should be aware he 
has a duty to engage with Uncle Buck over repayment of the loan.
 
E) Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on Mr Hs credit  file in relation to loan 1 
and 2 to date. As Uncle Buck has sold the loan it should ask the debt purchaser to do the 
same. However, Mr H should be aware  that continued non-payment or non-engagement 
over an affordable repayment  plan may result  in further adverse information  being applied.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN60722565my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint as Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision. I require Uncle Buck Finance LLP trading as Uncle  Buck to put things 
right for Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6072256