K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained about  the service she received from AA Underwriting Insurance  
Company Limited  (AA) during a claim she made  on her building insurance policy.
background 
There have been  several businesses involved in this complaint who have acted on behalf  of 
AA. For ease of reference, Ill only refer to AA in this decision, even when referring to the 
actions of its agents or representatives.
Ms S held a buildings insurance policy underwritten by AA. In November 2018 she contacted  
AA to report some cracking  to her property as potential  subsidence  damage. AA instructed 
an engineer to visit her property and assess the likely cause of the cracking, so it could 
establish whether  the damage  would  be covered  by Ms S policy. This visit took place in 
November 2018,  but the report wasnt passed to AA until mid-January 2019.
Between November  2018 and January 2019, Ms S chased AA and its engineer for updates 
on several occasions. On 29 January 2019,  Ms S made a complaint to AA about a lack of 
communication and the overall time her claim was taking.  She said she had been left 
confused as to whether she had a valid claim or not and unsure about what she needed to 
do.
On 30 January AA wrote  to Ms S and told her the engineer believed the likely cause of 
damage to be subsidence. It suggested  that further investigations were needed so it could 
reach a conclusion on what works would be covered by Ms S policy. This information  wasnt  
right as it was based upon a report which was incorrectly saved on Ms S file.
On 1 February 2019, AA contacted Ms S to explain it had given her incorrect information. It 
told her the correct report suggested there  was no subsidence and the cause of the cracking 
could potentially be damage to a lintel which had occurred  gradually over time. It asked its 
engineer to contact  Ms S and carry out further investigations to confirm  whether the cause  
was the lintel.
On 23 May 2019, AA wrote to Ms S confirming her claim had been  declined as there was no 
subsidence. This email  didnt explain  what the cause of the cracking was, or comment on the 
lintel. In June 2019, AA offered Ms S £300  compensation for the issues she had experienced  
during her claim.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms S complaint. She thought Ms S had suffered 
avoidable delays  throughout  both her claim and her complaint. She said she hadnt been 
kept updated or given the information she requested about what was causing the cracks at 
her property. Overall, she thought the issues Ms S had experienced had caused her 
considerable distress. So, she thought AA should pay a total of £375 compensation to reflect 
this. She also said AA should  provide  Ms S with more  detailed reasoning for declining her 
claim. 
Ms S didn't initially accept our investigator's opinion, she felt £500 would better reflect  the 
distress she had experienced.  Our investigator put this request to AA but maintained  that, in 
her view, £375 was fair. AA didnt agree to pay either £500  or £375. It maintained that £300  
was fair. 
Ref: DRN63628042So, because no agreement has been  able to be reached, the complaint has been passed  to 
me to decide.
my findings 
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In coming to my final decision, I havent  considered AAs decision to decline the claim as this 
wasnt part of this complaint. I have only considered the level of service Ms S has received 
from AA since the start of her claim.
It isnt in dispute that the level of service  Ms S received wasnt  up to the standard AA 
expects. AA has offered  Ms S £300 compensation to reflect this. What  I need to decide  is 
whether this amount fairly reflects  the distress and inconvenience  Ms S has experienced as 
a result of the things  AA did wrong.
From what  Ive seen, there  were  several  periods of unnecessary  delay during Ms S claim 
and complaint. There have also been multiple instances where AA gave Ms S very poor, or 
very little, information about its decisions and/or the progress of her claim. 
For example, it took over two months from the date of the engineers visit for AA to share 
with Ms S the details of the report. And when it did, it shared incorrect information which  
gave the impression Ms S claim would be covered  likely  creating false  hope which was 
later taken away.
Following this, AA asked its engineer to further investigate  the cracking. But Ms S wasnt 
provided with any updates  on the progress of this investigation between  February 2019 to 
May 2019  at which point she was sent a short email declining the claim without any 
detailed reasoning or explanation of the likely cause of cracking. It took AA seven months,  
from the start of the claim, to confirm that it was declining  the claim. But from what I can see, 
its decision was based primarily  on the findings in the engineers report  which  was 
available from mid-January 2019.
It also seems  to have taken AA over five months  to provide a response to Ms S complaint 
about the level of service  she had received.
When our investigator issued her assessment, she recommended that AA should share with 
Ms S more detailed reasons for declining the claim.  But from what Ive seen, no further 
information has been provided  by AA. It seems to me that AA based its decision to decline 
the claim on the report and comments from its engineer.  These suggest that the cracking 
hasnt been caused by subsidence, but rather deterioration of a lintel over time. I think this 
information should have been  clearly explained to Ms S at the point AA declined the claim. 
I note that our investigator has since provided  Ms S with a copy  of the correct engineers 
report.
Overall, I agree  that the service Ms S received  has been poor. Because of this, she has 
suffered frustration, worry, distress and disappointment.  So, taking everything that happened 
into account, I think AA should pay Ms S a total of £375 compensation for the issues  it 
caused and the impact  these had on her.
Ref: DRN63628043my final decision
For the reasons  I've explained, I uphold Ms S' complaint. 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited  must  pay Ms S a total of £375 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6362804