K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr W say Lloyds Bank PLC,  Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds),  
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs and Mr W bought the PPI in 2003 at the same time as taking a mortgage.  They  applied  
for the mortgage  and PPI at a meeting. Their mortgage application form says Mr W wasnt  
employed at the time. It says Mrs W was employed  as a packer and had been there for over 
15 years.  Mrs W has told us she wasnt entitled to sick pay or redundancy pay but her length 
of service makes me think she was entitled to statutory pay for sickness  and redundancy. 
Mrs W has told us she was in good health  at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  on Mrs W only for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay the monthly payment 
on Mrs and Mr Ws mortgage (around £515 according to the mortgage  offer) plus £3 for 
every £1000 of their initial mortgage (£186). Lloyds says the monthly premium was £31.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show Mrs and Mr W took a further  advance  in 2005. 
Mrs and Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs and Mr Ws representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs and Mr W wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr Ws representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  shouldve  told Mrs and Mr W 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs and Mr W and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-  term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  be 
most needed; and
The information Mrs and Mr W received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN65640682Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs and Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs and Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mrs and Mr W arranged  a further  advance  on their mortgage in 2005 after mortgage lending  
became regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole mortgage  becoming an FCA 
regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN65640683Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of 
Mrs and Mr Ws case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs and Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs and Mr W with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs and Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mrs and Mr Ws 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs and Mr W 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mrs and Mr W know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN65640684Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mrs and Mr Ws mortgage  application form 
had boxes to tick to say either I wish to apply  for or I do not wish to take  the PPI. So, it 
looks like the PPI was presented  as something  Mrs and Mr W had a choice about taking. On 
Mrs and Mr Ws form, which they signed,  the I wish to apply box is ticked  and I think  they 
wouldve known the other box could be ticked instead if they didnt want the PPI. 
Also, to apply for the PPI, Mrs and Mr W signed a PPI application form, separate from the 
mortgage application form. I havent  seen  anything to suggest that Mrs and Mr W had to take 
the PPI or had to sign an application  form for it if they didnt want  it. Taking  everything  into 
account, I think its more  likely  Mrs and Mr W knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take 
it without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mrs and Mr W have  told us they cant recall  whether Lloyds gave advice or recommended  
the PPI. Lloyds says it did provide advice. With all this in mind, I think Lloyds  did give advice. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs and Mr W with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Lloyds took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable  recommendation for 
Mrs and Mr W. As part of the mortgage application,  the adviser had some information  about 
Mrs and Mr Ws financial circumstances   for example their employment statuses and 
Mrs Ws salary. But I dont think Lloyds did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable and 
establish Mrs and Mr W had a need  for it. For example, Ive nothing  to show  that Lloyds 
asked about Mrs Ws work sickness or redundancy benefits.
The declaration signed by Mrs and Mr W on the PPI application, asked that they confirm  that 
they were working  at least 16 hours,  had been employed for at least  six months and werent 
aware of impending unemployment or hospitalisation or receiving treatment for conditions of 
a persistent or recurring nature. But I dont think Lloyds established that all this applied  to 
Mrs W before giving Mrs and Mr W the application  to sign  and Mr W wasnt  employed  at 
the time.  Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs and Mr W given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs and Mr W, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs and Mr W had a need  for the policy  Mrs Ws was the main  income  at the time, 
and it seems likely Mrs and Mr Ws ability to continue to pay their mortgage would be 
put under  strain were Mrs W not working for an extended period  even allowing for 
the statutory pay for redundancy  and sickness to which she wouldve been entitled.  
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs and Mr W.
Ref: DRN65640685 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs and Mr W. 
There was nothing  about Mrs Ws employment or occupation which wouldve made  it 
difficult for Mrs and Mr W to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  Mrs W had that couldve affected their ability  to claim.  There were  
also no additional restrictions  on cover  for mental health or back  problems.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the PPI (including: the any similar gainful 
occupation condition,  the requirement that Mrs W be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before Mrs and Mr W could  claim and the fact the PPI would pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim). But I think the PPI still provided valuable 
cover given  Mrs and Mr Ws circumstances, the significant loss of income  they could 
suffer if Mrs W lost her job or was too sick to work, the fact the PPI helped protect 
payments relating  to the mortgage  on their home and the potential consequences 
should they be unable to make payments on loans secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs and Mr W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs and Mr W were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is, it would protect their payments if Mrs W were  
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs and Mr W would have taken 
the policy without  any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs and Mr W agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs and Mr W, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mrs and Mr W all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs and Mr Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs and Mr Ws. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs and Mr Ws representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN65640686-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs and Mr W about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mrs and Mr Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mrs and Mr W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mrs and Mr W? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it shouldve  done  when it sold this policy to Mrs and Mr W. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mrs and Mr W would have still taken the policy, had Lloyds done  things properly.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs and Mr W, I have found the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances, it seems to me that whether or not Mrs and Mr W 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had 
explained things  properly, Mrs and Mr W would  have acted differently, or whether they would 
have taken the policy in any event. 
Mrs and Mr W say they wouldnt have taken  it and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition. 
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs and Mr W had some interest in taking  PPI. By this I 
mean when  Lloyds advised them there was a suitable product they could buy that would 
protect their mortgage payments were  Mrs W unable to work because of accident, sickness 
or unemployment, they concluded they wanted  that product. But they made  that decision 
based on incomplete information,  meaning  what they thought  they were getting  is not exactly  
what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs and Mr Ws circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mrs and Mr W the exact premium at the point  they applied.  But 
I consider it more likely  than not that they knew they would have to pay something for the 
PPI and were made aware of the approximate costs. If the cost when they came to pay for 
Ref: DRN65640687the PPI had been significantly  at odds with their expectations at the point of sale,  its 
possible they mightve raised this with Lloyds or reconsidered their decision. Instead  they 
paid for the policy for a number of years. Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs and Mr W would 
have found the cost unacceptable if they had been  given the exact figure during  the meeting 
in which  they agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs and Mr W would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its likely they expected,  if 
they werent also told, that in the event of a claim the policy  would pay an amount sufficient 
to meet  their monthly mortgage payment.  So I think the policy at least met Mrs and Mr Ws 
likely expectations about that and, if anything, actually paid more  in the event of a claim than 
they would  have expected  - as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs and Mr W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability due to any pre-existing health  issue  (an issue 
Mrs W knew or ought to have known about  at the policy  start or for which  in the 12 
months before the policy start shed seen, arranged to see or received  treatment  from a 
doctor) occurring or re-occurring during the first 24 months  of cover;
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  if Mrs W wasnt  a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs W not only be unable  to do 
her own job but also be unable to do any similar  job the insurer thought  she was or might  
reasonably become  qualified for in view of her training, education  and ability;  and
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment,  and the policy 
protected payments for up to 12 months rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs and Mr W pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs and Mr W from taking the PPI.
But, the evidence  about Mrs and Mr Ws circumstances  at the time of sale shows the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mrs W was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
Mrs and Mr W should the insured risks have become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mrs W wouldve been  caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  she didnt have any pre-existing health issues and was in permanent 
employment. So, I think Mrs and Mr W still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr W would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mrs and Mr W had known they could only claim for disability if Mrs W were not only unable 
to do her own job but also unable to do any similar  job the insurer  thought she was or might 
reasonably become qualified for in view of her training, education  and ability,  it might have 
Ref: DRN65640688played into their thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them  pause  for 
thought  although its possible they may not have been overly concerned given  that if 
Mrs W was unable (through  disability) to do her own job, the chances that she would be able 
to take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mrs and Mr W the first 60 days of any disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered   and may not have  told them  any claim would be limited to a 12 month 
period. All this may have  differed from what Mrs and Mr W expected and mightve  hoped  for. 
But given the substantial loss of income Mrs and Mr W would suffer  if Mrs W were  too sick to 
work or made redundant, I consider it likely  they would still have thought  a policy  that after 
60 days paid the mortgage payments for up to 12 months, would be of benefit to them  and 
would help them manage the consequences  if Mrs W couldnt work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made  and could help 
reduce Mrs and Mr Ws outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, helping  to make it less 
likely their home would  be placed at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs and Mr W would still have taken  the policy. The policy was suitable for them, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting and provided benefits  that 
would help them manage the consequences  if Mrs W were made redundant - or couldnt 
work due to accident or disability. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not 
Mrs and Mr W wouldve  taken the PPI in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mrs and Mr Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs and Mr W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs and Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs and Mr W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments.
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN65640689represent fair compensation to put Mrs and Mr W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  That is because, while I accept its possible they would not 
have taken the PPI, I am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not they 
would still have taken  the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the PPI. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, 
to conclude Lloyds  should pay Mrs and Mr W compensation, as that would put them  in a 
better position than they wouldve been in had everything happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mrs and Mr W think Lloyds  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs and Mr W, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2003  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs and Mr Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs and Mr W and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs and Mr W in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6564068