K820x#14complaint
Mr J and Ms B complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as first direct) unfairly declined 
their request  to extend the term of their interest only mortgage.
background
Mr J and Ms B took out their mortgage  with HSBC in early 2009. They borrowed £750,599 
on an interest only basis, over a term of 10 years. They  planned to sell their business and its 
premises in order to raise  funds to repay the capital  balance when it fell due. 
The mortgage had an offset facility, where linked savings account balances were  used to 
offset the amount of the interest  they were charged. The rate applicable to the mortgage was 
a lifetime tracker  a variable rate of 1.49% above the Bank  of England  base rate.
HSBC wrote to Mr J and Ms B in September 2018  to remind them  that the mortgage term 
was due to end on 3 February 2019,  at which point the outstanding balance would need  to 
be repaid. 
By this time, Mr J and Ms B had already sold their business and were  in the process  of 
selling the premises.  But fearing a delay, they contacted  HSBC  with a view to extending the 
mortgage term. They were also anxious about being  moved to the banks standard  variable  
rate (SVR), which at 4.19% was significantly higher than the interest  theyd been paying  
under the lifetime tracker (then 2.24%).
HSBC declined Mr J and Ms Bs request for a formal term extension, but agreed a temporary 
extension until 3 May 2019.  And it said it would continue to offset  Mr J and Ms Bs linked 
savings balance. But it said that the lifetime  tracker rate would still cease to apply from the 
original end date of 3 February  after which time, interest would be charged at the SVR.
With the sale of their business premises falling through, Mr J and Ms B continued  to seek  a 
term extension from HSBC. But, even  after reviewing  matters under a complaint, the bank 
didnt change its stance.  It didnt think that any of the proposed  changes  were affordable for 
Mr J and Ms B. So they referred their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  but didnt think  HSBC  had acted unfairly.  He 
noted that Mr J and Ms B were expecting  to sell the property and repay the mortgage within  
a matter of months,  so a longer extension  and tying into a new mortgage agreement   
wouldnt have been appropriate. He also noted that based on the banks income and 
expenditure assessment, Mr J and Ms B couldnt demonstrate  that they could afford  the 
regular mortgage  payments  that would fall due. So while sympathetic to the problems that 
Mr J and Ms B experienced with the sale of their property, he thought the short-term 
extensions that HSBC had put in place were reasonable. 
Mr J and Ms B didnt accept our investigators view.  They said theyd wanted to carry on 
paying the same amount, but in lieu of that an extension under a low interest  rate which  
didnt carry an early  repayment charge ought  to have  been possible. Such deals were 
available with the bank and similar  concessions had been given to other customers  in these  
circumstances. So they thought the bank had exploited their situation in charging them  
interest at a higher rate, without justification.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN68108562While the complaints been ongoing, further  temporary extensions  have been agreed. Mr J 
and Ms B have now completed the sale of the commercial property and made a significant 
capital repayment  to the mortgage account. But a balance remained outstanding at the time 
the complaint  was referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why in a little 
more detail.
Under the terms of Mr J and Ms Bs mortgage  agreement with HSBC,  the outstanding  
balance became payable when the term came to an end in February 2019. So it was up to 
them to ensure they could  repay  the amount they owed on time. 
Mr J and Ms B did have a plan in place and I can see that they were trying to put that into 
practice as the mortgage term approached its end. Unfortunately  they experienced some  
difficulties in agreeing the sale of their commercial  premises.  So I can see why Mr J and 
Ms B wanted to extend the term, in their words  to give them  some breathing space. They  
wanted to do so on a preferential interest  rate deal  ideally continuing along with the one 
theyd had  to keep their monthly payments down. But there was no requirement for the 
bank to do this. A formal  term extension wouldve removed the obligation on Mr J and Ms B 
to repay  the balance   deferring the redemption until the end of any revised term. So I 
wouldnt expect this to be agreed as a matter of course.
Nonetheless Id still expect HSBC to consider Mr J and Ms Bs request for a term extension 
fairly, in light of their circumstances.  To this end I can see that the bank  took details of their 
income and expenditure, as well as their broader plans and circumstances, to review what  
assistance it could  offer. Mr J and Ms B couldnt  demonstrate that they could  afford the 
monthly repayments due on an extended  term on any interest  rate product or any repayment 
basis. Their only income was from Mr Js pension, with him having retired and Ms B not 
employed at the time of the request. And that income was substantially  lower than their 
outgoings would be even on the most preferential mortgage terms. So as a starting point I 
think the bank  had some legitimate concerns about formally extending Mr J and Ms Bs 
mortgage term.
That isnt the end of the matter though, as the relevant mortgage regulations do allow 
lenders some flexibility in applying  their usual affordability assessments. And these mean 
that HSBC would be allowed to make the change if it was in Mr J and Ms Bs best interests 
(though it still wouldnt be obliged to  the request could be declined  for other reasons). 
Whether an extension was in Mr J and Ms Bs best interests is quite finely-balanced here. 
I appreciate that  especially  with the benefit of hindsight  Mr J and Ms B will feel that a 
short extension of say two years with a lower interest rate wouldve worked  out better for 
them than the series of short-term extensions that they ended  up with. But looking at things 
as they were at the time, I dont think it was in Mr J and Ms Bs interests to be committed  to 
the mortgage for a longer  time. I say this because the income  and expenditure assessment 
showed a substantial deficit. The additional amounts needed to service  this mortgage (and 
another secured loan) were coming  out of their savings.  So entering into a deal which could 
require them to do that over a longer term doesnt seem appropriate to me. A longer term 
Ref: DRN68108563would also have exposed  Mr J and Ms B to a number of other risks  from a fall in the value 
of their commercial property to a rise in interest rates   that couldve had a further adverse 
effect on them and their plans. 
So taking all of this into account, I dont think it was unreasonable  for HSBC to decline Mr J 
and Ms Bs request for a term extension. By comparison, the short-term  extensions that 
were offered  seem to me to be the most appropriate way forward  at the time. This gave them 
more time to complete the sale of the commercial  property  without  removing the obligation 
on them  to do so or committing them to a longer-term arrangement that they couldnt  have  
afforded. The additional time also gave Mr J and Ms B the opportunity  to consider other  
options in the event  of difficulties in selling the commercial property. In this respect I note 
that they sought independent financial advice and also advised the bank they were  looking 
into the sale of the mortgaged  property,  although ultimately the former  didnt  yield any 
alternative options and the latter  from what Ive seen  wasnt  pursued.
Alongside the additional  time provided  to repay the mortgage, HSBC also allowed Mr J and 
Ms B the use of the offset facility after the original term came to an end. So they couldve 
continued to benefit from the interest savings  that the arrangement offered (although  in the 
event the majority of the savings  balance  was withdrawn).
Considering everything  therefore, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly in how it handled Mr 
J and Ms Bs mortgage  account as the term ended. I appreciate that this has been  a difficult 
and stressful  time for them, but for the reasons Ive explained I think the banks decisions 
were reasonable at the time they were  taken. 
I know that Mr J and Ms B also have concerns around how the bank has dealt with their 
requests for assistance with the shortfall  debt that remains  following  the sale of the 
commercial property and subsequent capital  repayment. But I make no comment on those 
points here as they arent within the scope of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr J and Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6810856