K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited wont pay his pet 
insurance claim and added an exclusion to his policy. My references to Red Sands include 
its agents.
background
In 2013 Mr C took out a lifetime pet insurance  policy for his dog with Red Sands on-line. He 
made a claim in July 2018 when his dog had treatment for an interdigital mass 
(nodules/lesions on paws).
Red Sands  wouldnt  pay the claim. The dogs vet records showed  she had treatment for 
dermatitis/pyoderma (skin inflammation) before the policy started. Red Sands said if it had 
known about the dogs  medical history when  Mr C took out the policy , it would have added 
an exclusion  for all claims  with respect to skin conditions. It added that specific exclusion 
backdated to the start of the policy and applied the exclusion  to decline the claim.
Mr C complained to us. He said his vet had given evidence that the medical condition 
claimed for in 2018 was unrelated to the dogs dermatitis/pyoderma seen before the policy. 
Mr C thought it was unfair for Red Sands to decline the claim and add an exclusion  with 
such a wide scope
Our investigator said Red Sands should pay Mr Cs claim plus interest and remove  the 
exclusion relating  to all skin conditions.
Red Sands  doesnt  agree  and wants an ombudsmans  decision.  It said the policy  doesnt  
cover pre-existing  conditions. Also when Mr C took out the policy  on-line he was asked to 
read and agree to presumptions. One of the presumptions said This confirms  you accepted 
that we reserve  the right to apply an exclusion to your policy in respect of any conditions that 
we subsequently learn were pre-existing or existing  at the time you took out the policy  with 
us. Red Sands said that meant it could add the all skin conditions exclusion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  Red Sands should  pay the claim subject to the remaining policy 
terms and interest as detailed below. In addition it should remove the exclusion it added 
retrospectively.
In some of its correspondence  Red Sands appears to have  accepted that the dogs  
dermatitis/pyoderma before the start of the policy and her claim condition arent linked. But, 
as its referred to the pre-existing condition exclusion  as part of its reasoning for declining the 
claim, Ive considered  the matter for the avoidance of doubt.
The policy is clear it doesnt  include cover for pre-existing conditions.  However,  Mr Cs vets 
evidence in his letter of July 2018  is clear that the claim condition  is not a pre-existing 
condition. He says:
Ref: DRN63851932The two episodes of dermatitis/pyoderma  to the head and flank areas which  occurred prior 
to the owner taking  out the policy could not possibly  be related to the interdigital mass which 
was removed recently. It is an entirely separate condition with an entirely different aetiology 
(cause).
Red Sands  cant fairly and reasonably  use the pre-existing condition  exclusion to decline the 
claim.
I also dont think it can add, backdate and apply  the exclusion for all skin conditions.  
Red Sands  didnt ask Mr C about  pre-existing  conditions when he bought  the policy. If it had, 
and Mr C misrepresented  the answers,  it might be fair to apply exclusions retrospectively  if 
thats what it would have done  had it known the true position. The law allows this in some 
circumstances where  theres  been  a relevant misrepresentation. But as Red Sands  hasnt  
shown me it asked Mr C those questions there isnt an issue of misrepresentation.
One of the presumptions  in the sales process  is that Red Sands reserves the right to apply 
an exclusion  in respect of any illness or conditions it subsequently learns were pre-existing 
at the start of the policy.  The relevant condition was dermatitis/pyoderma but Mr C wasnt 
asked about his dogs conditions. Red Sands imposed an exclusion that was very broad in 
scope. I dont think that was fair or reasonable. 
The way the presumption is worded would allow Red Sands to impose  any exclusion 
whether it relates  to the specific  condition or not, effectively  allowing Red Sands complete 
discretion to exclude anything. I dont  think thats  fair. 
Red Sands  should  remove  the specific exclusion on all claims with respect  to skin conditions  
with effect from the start of the policy. It cant rely on the exclusion to decline the claim.
Red Sands  must pay Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining policy  terms and limits and 
subject to any excess and co-payments.  I understand  Mr C has already paid the vet and if so 
Red Sands  must add interest as Ive detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
pay Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits and subject  to any 
excess and co-payments. If Mr C has already paid the vet it must add interest* at 8% 
a year simple  from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
remove the exclusion for all skin conditions with effect from the start of the policy.
Ref: DRN63851933Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  must make payment and remove the 
exclusion within 28 days of us telling  it Mr C accepts  my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6385193