K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold  a reviewable whole of life (WOL)  policy, with critical 
illness and disability cover  by ReAssure Limited,  and that it wasnt  administered correctly  by 
it.  
In short,  she says:
She wasnt told about the reviewable nature of the WOL policy. 
She was told that for a fixed monthly premium, shed receive a guaranteed  lump sum 
upon death or diagnosis of a critical illness or disability whenever  it may occur.  
Shes unhappy about the premium increase from £22.65 to £49.90 which  she says is 
unaffordable in the long run.  
ReAssure failed  to review the WOL policy  according to its terms and conditions,  
thereby depriving  her of the opportunity  to take remedial action sooner. 
Over  18 years ReAssure sent her incorrect information, leading her to believe that 
she also had critical illness and disability  cover for life which is incorrect.  
ReAssure hasnt  administered the policy correctly.
She rejects its offer to pay £250  compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
To put things right Mrs C would like ReAssure  to continue to provide life cover  with benefits 
at a fixed premium for the rest of her life.  
background
In my provisional decision of 24 September 2020, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision, I upheld the complaint. In short, I said:
Ive considered the sale of the policy as part of this complaint. However,  on the face 
of the evidence, and on balance Im unable to safely conclude  that the 
recommendation was unsuitable. 
Despite what ReAssure says,  I think it should  conduct the missed  reviews so that it 
can safely say that there  havent have been any changes to the policy and that Mrs C 
hasnt suffered financially.  
I think the offer to pay £250 compensation  for failing to review the policy   is 
broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  But I think it should pay another 
£150  not £100 as I had provisionally suggested  for providing  incorrect  information 
leading Mrs C to believe that her critical illness and disability benefit was also for life. 
I appreciate it cost Mrs C money  to pursue this complaint. I note she says for 
example that she had to spend time and money  before the business  would even  
accept that critical illness and disability benefit wasnt for life or that it has missed 
reviews, so I think she should be refunded his reasonable  expenses. 
Mr and Mrs Cs reasonable costs were around £45. In the circumstances, I think 
ReAssure should pay Mrs C £20 towards this.   
Mr and Mrs C responded  but didnt accept my provisional findings. They feel that despite 
upholding their complaint,  Im not upholding most of it. Theyve gone on to, very eloquently, 
articulate over a 10-page response  why they disagree with my findings and why this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ive considered  carefully what  they have said but dont think  
theres any merit in repeating the points in this decision.   
Ref: DRN69264572Although the business objected to my previous  provisional decision upholding the complaint, 
it hasnt provided any further  points for my consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision  remains the same as set out in my recent  provisional  decision. 
I dont consider that  any material new points have been raised,  and the key  points  remain the same, 
and have been considered  by me in my provisional decisions. In other words,  Im satisfied  that Ive 
considered all the points  that are relevant to my decision. 
I very much appreciate the time and effort put in by Mr and Mrs C in responding to my 
provisional decision, despite experiencing difficulties  and changes in their personal 
circumstances.    
On balance, Im still unable to safely conclude that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
However, I still think ReAssure should  conduct  the missed reviews so that it can safely say 
that there  havent  have been any changes to the policy  and that Mrs C hasnt suffered 
financially and pay any missed premium  increases to bring the policy  up to date. 
I think the offer to pay £250 compensation  for failing to review the policy   is, despite what 
Mr and Mrs C say, broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  But I think it should 
pay another £150  not £100 as I had provisionally suggested  for providing  incorrect 
information leading  Mrs C to believe that her critical illness  and disability benefit was for life. 
I also think ReAssure should pay Mrs C the reasonable costs of pursuing this complaint in 
the sum of £20, in addition to the compensation set out above. 
I want to reiterate the purpose  of my final decision isnt to address every  single  point raised 
by Mr and Mrs C in response to my provisional  decision. My role is to consider the evidence  
presented by them and ReAssure, and reach  what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.  Its not for me to 
explain the legal position regarding points raised by Mr and Mrs C. 
In my view, Mr and Mrs C have drawn  conclusions,  based upon the available information,  
which they say proves  that the advice  was unsuitable. But I simply dont agree with the 
conclusions theyve reached.
Ive explained  that ReAssure is responsible for the sale of the policy  by virtue of acquiring 
the book of business from GAN, who was responsible  for the sale of the policy in 1997. I 
had mistakenly thought  that ReAssure had only taken over the running of Mrs Cs policy and 
not responsibility for its sale,  but I accept that this is not the case here, and that it was an 
oversight on my part, for which I apologise.  
Ref: DRN69264573Whilst critical illness and disability cover  might not have  been something Mr and Mrs C 
specifically asked for, I dont think the adviser was wrong to recommend it to them  on the 
basis that in the event  of a valid claim it would cover  their mortgage if they became sick or 
disabled. 
I appreciate that they had a remaining mortgage  term of 18 years, but I still think this gave 
them some flexibility in case  their circumstances changed. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C say 
they had no intention of changing  their minds and thats why they put the policy  in trust for 
their son. Whilst I appreciate that, its still their responsibility to maintain the policy in order to 
ensure that theyre able to leave  money  for their son. 
I appreciate that they understand that a recommendation from a tied agent isnt necessarily  
unsuitable, however they maintain they werent aware of their options and are unhappy that 
they were sold a Comprehensive  Protection Plan without any explanation that it was a 
reviewable whole of life policy. 
As Ive said before, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that they 
wouldve been told that theyd receive guaranteed life cover - which would  pay £75,000 upon 
death  for a fixed premium. That very premise  describes  a non-reviewable  whole of life 
policy, which isnt what they had. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that they were  led to believe 
this is what they had. 
In my opinion this is quite  different to not being  told, in much  greater detail, how a reviewable  
whole of life policy operates   the two arent  mutually exclusive.
I appreciate Mrs C says that if theyd  been  told how the policy worked,  they wouldnt have 
gone with it. But Im still unable to say that a reviewable whole of life policy was unsuitable or 
that it didnt meet their need for family protection, in other words, a lump  sum payment for 
their son, in the event of death.  
I appreciate the points  Mr and Mrs C make  about the article regarding GAN  as an insurer,  I 
also understand they feel that ReAssure isnt qualified to comment  on the state of GAN  
advisers. Be that as it may, Ive explained  regardless of what GAN may or not be 
responsible for, Im only considering its actions in relation to their case. So, it may well be 
that GAN   according to the article  is responsible for numerous mis-sales.  However,  that 
isnt of itself evidence that Mrs C was given unsuitable advice. So, just because the premium 
could increase, and there was no guarantee that their son would receive the benefits,  
doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold  or was unsuitable.
As Ive said previously, theres an inherent  risk with reviewable whole of life policies that if 
the policyholder  doesnt  keep up with the premiums, the policy will lapse.  On balance, 
despite what Mr and Mrs C say, Im unable to safely say that Mrs C wasnt aware  of this at 
the point of sale. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C say the policy illustration  and the terms and conditions were 
misleading, and the key information regarding the reviews shouldve been  more prominent. 
Even if GAN  was being taken over and or being investigated by the regulator, despite what 
they say, I still think its unlikely that they wouldnt have received any policy  documentation at 
all. If anything, Id have  expected it to have behaved better whilst under the regulators 
spotlight. ReAssure  now being unable to provide  copies of these documents,  isnt of itself 
evidence of them not being  provided  at or around  the point of sale. 
Ref: DRN69264574Im mindful that Mr and Mrs C say that they now see and realise that it was a mistake  for 
them to sign the application form without receiving  the Key Features Document (KFD), but 
despite what they say, their signatures  are part of the evidence  I have to consider. 
Regardless of their observations about the KFD, it does still say that the plan will be 
reviewed from time to time and that it may be necessary to pay more to maintain the 
benefits, even  though  it doesnt go into further detail.  This makes clear  that the plan wasnt  
going to provide a fixed level of cover for a fixed premium. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C feel that ReAssure had a duty to check policy  records from GAN, 
but I dont agree. Logistically  a business  wouldnt generally check  over all the new policies 
that it acquires,  and certainly not routinely, unless theres a caveat to offer ongoing reviews 
and advice  which isnt the case here.  
Put simply, a failure to review a reviewable whole of life policy, post-sale, isnt evidence of 
misleading consumers  about the type of policy  they had. In my opinion failing to review  a 
policy as required,  is potentially evidence of failing to administer it correctly or of poor 
management, which is a basis upon  which I (and ReAssure) have upheld  the complaint.  This 
isnt evidence of it being misleading,  even if Mr and Mrs C thought  the policy premium was 
fixed for life. 
Despite what ReAssure  says, I appreciate  Mr and Mrs C are adamant  that at least  six 
reviews have been missed. Thats why Ive asked ReAssure to conduct  the correct  number 
of missed reviews. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C maintain  that they didnt  seek  to cancel the policies because they 
didnt know what kind of policy they had, and the letters they received in 2013  didnt  give 
them any reason to, but this doesnt change my overall decision on the case. 
Ive already noted that Mrs C had been under  the misapprehension  for a significant  
number of years  that this benefit  was for life, I also think  ReAssure couldve dealt with the 
situation differently   by bringing  the issue to her attention  rather  than amending  the 
paperwork in 2015 from Throughout life to Before  December 2032.  By failing to do so, I 
think it has compounded  her distress and inconvenience and thats why I think £150  
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate that both Mrs C and 
ReAssure strongly disagree with this, for different  reasons, but I still think its a fair solution in 
the circumstances.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  I still think Mrs C wasnt  entitled to critical illness  and 
disability benefit  for life and this wasnt what she was paying for. ReAssure accepts that it 
was a mistake to lead her to believe that it was a benefit for life when it wasnt. So, in this 
instance I dont  think itd be fair to ask the business  to honour this. Mr and Mrs C have  asked 
me to explain what the law says about  long-term  errors of this nature, but as an ombudsman 
its not my role to advise  them  on the law.  
Im aware of the list of failures  Mr and Mrs C say ReAssure is responsible for. Ive made 
clear in my provisional decision what I think its responsible  for. Overall ReAssure accepts 
that it hasnt provided  a service that they could expect, I appreciate  they think this is an 
understatement and that it had a duty of care that its breached time and again. 
I note they feel that £250 compensation doesnt  even cover  the missed  reviews and 
ReAssure has benefitted from its errors.  In my opinion I think  its fair and reasonable,  along  
Ref: DRN69264575with ReAssure having to conduct all missed  policy reviews  and pay any missed  premium 
increases to bring the policy back up to date.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C have put in a lot of time and effort  pursuing  this complaint but for 
the reasons Ive already  explained in my two provisional decisions Im not persuaded to 
change my decision. 
I appreciate Mrs C will be unhappy  with my decision and it isnt what she wants  to hear.  
Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im unable to uphold this complain and give her what she 
wants.
In other  words, Im not persuaded that ReAssure should replace the policy  with a non-
reviewable whole of life policy  with a fixed premium and sum assured   with critical illness 
and disability cover  for life.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.  
ReAssure Limited should  conduct all missed  policy reviews  and pay any missed  premium 
increases to bring the policy up to date.  
I think ReAssure Limited  should  also pay Mrs C £20 towards her reasonable costs of 
pursuing this complaint  and pay her £400  compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mrs C should remember that the policy remains reviewable and that premiums are likely  to 
increase in future. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2021.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN69264576COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold  a reviewable  whole of life (WOL)  policy, with critical  illness 
and disability  cover by ReAssure Limited, and that it wasnt  administered correctly  by it.  
In short, she says:
She wasnt told about the reviewable nature of the WOL policy. 
She was told that for a fixed monthly  premium,  shed receive a guaranteed lump  sum upon 
death or diagnosis of a critical illness or disability  whenever it may occur.  
Shes unhappy about  the premium increase from £22.65 to £49.90 which  she says is 
unaffordable in the long run.  
ReAssure failed to review the WOL policy according  to its terms and conditions,  thereby 
depriving her of the opportunity to take remedial  action sooner. 
Over 18 years ReAssure sent her incorrect information, leading  her to believe that she also 
had critical  illness  and disability cover for life which is incorrect. 
ReAssure hasnt  administered  the policy  correctly.
She rejects its offer to pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
To put things right Mrs C would  like ReAssure to continue to provide life cover with benefits  at a fixed 
premium for the rest of her life.  
background
In my provisional decision of 27 April 2020, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
provisional decision,  I upheld the complaint. In short, I said:
Because the policy was sold by a third-party IFA, Im unable to consider the sale part of the 
complaint in coming to a decision about the administration of the policy by ReAssure.  In other 
words, in this instance  Im unable to consider the sale of the policy  and anything Mrs C may 
(or may not) have been told by her IFA at the point of sale. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what ReAssure says, I think it should  
conduct the missed  reviews (from 2002 and 2007) before it can safely say that there havent 
have been any changes to the policy  and that Mrs C hasnt suffered financially.
The offer to pay £250  compensation  for failing  to review the policy   is broadly fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. But I think  it should pay another £100 for providing incorrect 
information leading Mrs C to believe  that her critical  illness and disability benefit  was also for 
life. 
ReAssure Limited should conduct all missed  policy  reviews   from 2002  and pay any 
missed premium increases to bring the policy up to date.  
So, in total, I think ReAssure should also pay Mrs C £350 compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
ReAssure responded and made  the following key points:
Reviews were assessed to ensure that no financial  loss occurred. The 2013 review passed 
and confirmed  that no changes were needed to the premium or benefit.  
Based on how these  policies  work,  it would  suggest that the previous reviews would  also 
have also passed. 
If the 2013 review  failed,  it would  indicate the others would fail too, but thats  not the case 
here. 
The first time the premium was unable to sustain the benefits was the 2018 review, therefore 
asking ReAssure to conduct  the reviews  would  be an unnecessary task.
It believes its offer to pay £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable, however  it doesnt  object to paying £350 as suggested by me. 
Ref: DRN69264577Mrs C (and Mr C) responded and made a substantial number of points.  In summary, they said:
ReAssure is responsible  for the sale of the policy and would like me to reconsider  my findings 
considering the points  made with regards to the sale and acquisition  of GAN   the business  
responsible for the sale of the policy  that ended up with ReAssure.  
oThey maintain the policy was mis-sold  and that they werent told the policy was 
reviewable. 
oTheyve discovered  that GAN was responsible for a number of mis-sales (in the 
1990s)  theyve included a newspaper article  supporting this point.  
oThey never accepted the risk that their policy would become unaffordable  and their 
son wouldnt receive the benefit.  They wanted life cover that would  pay £75,000 
upon death  for a fixed premium. 
oReAssure misled them about how the policy would work,  and therefore  should  
provide the benefits  throughout their life for the premium  they were paying.   
Although ReAssure accepts it failed to review the policy, its far too easy  for it to blame  a 
systems error for failing to review the policy six times rather than two. It shouldve  reviewed 
the policy  regularly after 2013 but failed to do so. 
oBecause ReAssure failed to do this in accordance  with its terms and conditions, it 
misled them about how the policy would work  and deprived them of the opportunity 
to replace the policy with a non-reviewable one.
oReAssure didnt offer any explanation of what their full options were. They  didnt know  
that there was any problem  until they received  the fact sheet  in January 2018. 
oThe £250 compensation offered by ReAssure  is completely arbitrary, it has cost them 
much more  to pursue  this complaint.   
ReAssure incorrectly told them they had critical  illness and disability benefit  (throughout life) 
but shouldve been more open and upfront about its error rather  than changing details 
without letting  them know. 
oThe additional  £100  compensation suggested by me is inadequate given how long 
they spent thinking the cover was for life. It doesnt even cover what  they spent  trying 
to get ReAssure to accept its mistake.
They maintain they didnt  receive certain policy documentation,  including the Key Features 
Document (KFD)  from the business responsible for the sale, before it was taken  over.
oKFD doesnt make clear  the level of risk theyd be subjected  to in later life. 
oTheir policy Illustration doesnt give them any indication that their premiums could 
change, and yet it has doubled. It shows what theyd get back if they stopped their 
plans which theyve never had an issue about.  
oTheyve asked ReAssure for projections  of what their premiums could be (not will be) 
which is possible  given  it has to make  projections   but they dont understand  why it 
says it cant. 
oThe options letter  theyve  received would  suggest that ReAssure has forecast  some 
costs data at least  till December  2032. And will/should  be able to forecast the cost of 
their policies until that date.
oThe terms and conditions  which are available  on request  suggests  that they 
werent routinely provided. 
oThey only received  annual statements  four years after the policy was started. 
Nevertheless, it confirmed their understanding that theyd receive minimum death  
benefit. 
oReAssure continues to make administrative errors.   
oMrs C had a waiver  of payment option  that wasnt included in the paperwork supplied 
by ReAssure, in which it also included  documents that werent  correct.  
After receiving inadequate responses and incorrect information they dont trust ReAssure to 
administer their policies correctly. 
Because ReAssure hadnt (in response to my provisional decision) commented on whether it was 
responsible for the sale of the policy, I asked it to clarify the position. In an email  to our service dated 
late August  2018 it said: 
Ref: DRN69264578I confirm that GAN were the original selling agents of the policies held by Mr and Mrs C (name 
anonymised). In 1998,  ReAssure acquired  the book of business from GAN so we are now responsible 
for the sale of these policies. GAN didnt have any IFA sales, only tied agent  sales.
I also asked Mrs C (and Mr C) to provide details  of their reasonable costs. Mrs C responded  and said 
they had the following  costs:
£20 to cover the cost of the calls.
£15 to cover the cost of postage. 
£10 to cover the cost of paper, envelopes and printer costs.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, in light of the new points  made by the parties, Ive considered the sale of the policy 
as part of this complaint.  However, on the face of the evidence, and on balance Im unable to safely  
conclude that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
Despite what ReAssure says, I think it should conduct the missed reviews so that it can safely say 
that there havent  have been any changes to the policy and that Mrs C hasnt suffered financially.  
I think  the offer to pay £250 compensation  for failing  to review the policy  is broadly fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  But I think  it should  pay another  £150  not £100 as I had 
provisionally suggested  for providing  incorrect information leading  Mrs C to believe that her critical 
illness and disability benefit was also for life. 
I understand that ReAssure is responsible for the sale of the policy by virtue of acquiring the book of 
business from GAN who was responsible for the sale of the policy in 1997. I had thought that 
ReAssure had only taken  over the running of Mrs Cs policy and not responsibility  for its sale,  but I 
accept that this is not the case here. Im grateful  to Mrs C (and Mr C) for their submissions and 
ReAssure for confirming  this position.   
Although theres  been  a long line of business  sales and acquisitions, resulting in ReAssure taking on 
responsibility for the 1997 sale of the policy   its not necessary for me to go into this history now that 
the position is undisputed and clear. 
I also understand that GAN was a tied agent (not an IFA). I note that tied agents were  (and still are) a 
common industry practice, and theres nothing inherently  wrong with receiving  advice from a tied 
agent who was only able to advise on its own products. In other words, a recommendation from a tied 
agent isnt of itself evidence of an unsuitable recommendation. 
I understand that Mrs C was looking for cover that would  provide a lump sum upon her death. I note it 
was recorded that she was in her 30s, working, married,  and with a son (aged four). Its likely  she 
was interested  in family protection  and thats probably why she put the policy in trust. 
In the circumstances Im unable to safely  say that a reviewable whole of life policy was unsuitable or 
didnt meet the need  for family protection upon death. I note this policy was initially taken  out for a 
period of 18 years   which generally covered the period of her son growing up  with an option to 
extend. I think  this gave  her some flexibility  to change her mind  after her son had grown up. 
Because ReAssure didnt receive a cancelation notice the policy continued. I note the document titled  
Comprehensive Protection Plan made clear that the premium  for life cover and for critical  illness 
and disability  benefit  was only for 18 years which  would suggest that it wasnt fixed  for life. 
Ref: DRN69264579I think  its likely that critical illness and disability  cover was something that Mrs C wanted and didnt 
have in place at the time.  In the circumstances Im unable  to say the recommendation for the 
additional benefits was unsuitable or didnt  meet her need for additional protection.  
 
Mrs C says the adviser didn't explain how the policy worked or that the premiums could increase, but 
despite what  she says, on balance Im unable to agree. 
Its possible that Mrs Cs (and Mr Cs) memory isnt as clear about  events that took place over 20 
years ago. I note that she was recently provided with documentation that made  clear the reviewable 
nature of the policy. 
A copy of the terms  and conditions, under  the heading Reviews, states:
Reviews are undertaken to ensure as far as possible that your plan will continue
to provide protection benefits over your chosen term.
A review will take place at the end of each five years, and every year in the last
five years of your chosen term.
A review involves estimating  the cash value  of the plan at the end of your
chosen term. This takes into account the current cash value, the current levels
of contribution and protection, a notional  figure for future growth, and future
protection and plan charges.  If the review shows that the plan is unlikely  to
provide the required benefits, the rate of contribution will be increased. The
amount of the increase  will be the Company's estimate of the amount needed
to provide the required benefits over your chosen term.
A similar review will be earned out if the rate of contributions is reduced, or if
contributions are discontinued.
Even if Mrs C didnt receive the very same document, I think its likely  she wouldve received 
something similar at the point of sale or after. Im mindful  the business  says Mrs C signed the 
application form and confirmed receipt of the illustration, KFD and terms of the policy.
So, I cant safely say that she wouldnt have been provided with any documentation  that related  to 
something that was so fundamental to the policy.  In other words, I think its unlikely that she wouldnt 
have received any documentation at all  either from the seller or the policy  provider  that didnt  
generally make clear the reviewable nature and operation of the policy, and therefore  the likelihood of 
the premium increases in future. 
Even if Mrs C didnt receive some of the documentation until sometime  after the sale, this doesnt 
mean the policy was mis-sold or unsuitable. 
In the circumstances Im not persuaded  that Mrs C wouldve been told that shed receive guaranteed 
life cover  which would pay £75,000 upon death (or diagnosis of a critical illness or disability)  for a 
fixed premium. This is not how a reviewable whole of life policy works, and certainly not for the 
premiums she was paying. 
I appreciate that she may have been told that shed  receive a guaranteed  lump sum upon death, but 
that wouldve been subject  to her paying the required premiums until death.
 
Im mindful Mrs C accepts  that she was told the plan would continue  so long as she kept paying  the 
premiums. So, this meant that she could lose her cover if she stopped paying the correct premiums to 
maintain the sum assured.  
Mrs C says she never accepted the risk that her policy would become unaffordable  and their son 
wouldnt receive the benefit.  But as Ive broadly explained in my provisional  decision, I think theres  
Ref: DRN692645710always an inherent  risk with reviewable  whole of life policies. If Mrs C doesnt keep up with the 
premiums, the policy  will lapse. This isnt an issue limited  to her policy only.  
Whilst the policy documentation might not have contained all the information Mrs C would  like to have 
seen, despite what Mrs C says Ive not seen anything to suggest that she was told or guaranteed  that 
the premiums wouldnt change  over time.  In other words, that she was sold cover with a fixed  
premium and guaranteed  sum assured.  
Im aware of the points she makes with regards  to the newspaper article. But just because GAN  
mightve been  responsible for other mis-sales  which  isnt what  Im considering in this case   or 
because ReAssure hasnt  administered  the plan correctly, doesnt mean  that Mrs C was sold an 
unsuitable product given her circumstances  at the time.    
In terms of the administration of the policy  Ive covered the points I consider to be relevant to my 
decision and therefore  I dont feel it necessary to go over the same  points again in detail. 
Whatever the reason  may be for the missed reviews  whether it be systems error following the 
migration in 1998 or some other possible reason given the long history of the policy, ReAssure 
accepts that it made an error. But I dont think the missed reviews and failing  to provide statements  
subsequent to the sale  is evidence that Mrs C was misled about  how the policy would work.  
Despite what ReAssure says, I still think it should conduct the missed reviews. I note it says that only 
two reviews were  missed but Mrs C believes it could be as much as six  an issue which shes raised 
with the business but hasnt received an answer to. I think the business should address this, and 
conduct the correct number of missed reviews, before  giving Mrs C an opportunity to pay the correct 
premium moving forward.  
Although Mrs C says she wouldve done things differently had she been notified of the missed  reviews 
sooner, Im mindful that she didnt seek to cancel the policy after 18 years. In any case  it appears the 
policy wouldve passed  the missed reviews  so its unlikely  she wouldve done things differently in any 
case - because the premiums were unlikely to have gone up. 
I understand Mrs C feels the additional £100 compensation is woefully inadequate  in relation to the 
critical illness and disability benefit  which she thought she had for life. On reflection, I think  she should  
be paid £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by this issue.  
Whilst Ive already noted that Mrs C had been under the misapprehension   for a significant  number 
of years  that this benefit was for life, I think ReAssure couldve  dealt with the situation differently  
by bringing the issue to her attention   rather than amending the paperwork in 2015 from Throughout 
life to Before  December 2032. By failing to do so, I think it has compounded her distress and 
inconvenience. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I still think Mrs C wasnt  entitled to critical illness and disability 
benefit for life and this wasnt what she was paying  for. So, in this instance I dont think  itd be fair to 
ask the business to honour this.
  
I should  also make clear  that this cover doesnt mean that Mrs C wouldve  received an additional 
£40,000 in old age. She wouldnt have received any of this money, unless a successful claim had 
been made within the term of the cover. 
Our service is free to all consumers and doesnt require them to spend  money. In other words, Mrs C 
was free to refer the complaint to our service after receiving a final response letter  from the business  
or eight weeks after complaining  to the business and not receiving a response. It wasnt necessary for 
her to spend money in bringing her complaint to our service, but I dont think  thats what Mrs C is 
talking about.  
Ref: DRN692645711I appreciate it cost Mrs C money  to pursue this complaint. I note she says for example  that she had to 
spend time and money before the business even would accept  that critical illness  and disability  
benefit wasnt  for life or that it has missed review, so I think she should be refunded some of her 
reasonable expenses.  
Mrs C said her (and Mr Cs) reasonable costs were around £45. In the circumstances, I think  
ReAssure should pay Mrs C £20 towards this.   
I also hope  the £400  will go some way to compensating her for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional decision, subject to any further submissions, 
provisionally Im minded  to uphold this complaint.  
ReAssure Limited should conduct all missed  policy  reviews  and pay any missed premium  increases 
to bring the policy up to date.  
I think  ReAssure Limited should also pay Mrs C £20 towards her reasonable costs  of pursuing  this 
complaint and pay her £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs C should remember that the policy  remains  reviewable and that premiums are likely to increase in 
future. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6926457