K821x#15Complaint
Ms J says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about one running  account facility and eight high-cost short term credit 
instalment loans that Sunny provided to Ms J from August 2014 onwards.  Ms Js last loan 
was provided in May 2017. Our adjudicator upheld Ms Js complaint  and thought she 
shouldnt have been provided with instalment  loans  4 to 7. Sunny didnt agree with our 
adjudicators assessment.  So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms J could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms J, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Ms J was unlikely  to have been  able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided instalment loan 4. 
I say this because  by this stage  Ms J exhibited a borrowing  pattern of taking out further loans 
not too long after repaying previous ones. And some  of them were even provided  when  Ms J 
already had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. Indeed instalment  loan 4 was 
provided while there were  outstanding balances on loans 2 and 3. 
Ref: DRN61223352Sunny continued  lending  to Ms J even when  this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for her. 
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms J paid on all instalment loans 4 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
any adverse information recorded about  loan 4 should be removed from Ms Js credit 
file;
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about instalment 
loans 5 to 7 on Ms Js credit file is likely to be adverse. So all reference to these 
loans should be removed from Ms Js credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms J a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Js complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Ms J compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6122335