K820x#14complaint
T, which is a limited company, complains that HSBC Bank Plc hasnt accepted  its claim for 
consequential losses, which T says it suffered as a result of entering into a ten-year interest 
rate swap agreement with the bank in 2008. 
background
HSBC reviewed the 2008 sale of the swap and accepted that if T had been  adequately 
informed it wouldnt have  entered  into the swap. The bank  offered  T financial compensation 
including interest  in respect of the payments T had made under the swap. The bank also 
waived certain other payments that might otherwise have been  due from the company. 
T accepted HSBCs offer on condition it could then claim further compensation for the 
financial losses which it says it suffered as a result of being subject to the swap. T submitted 
that claim which first HSBC and then our adjudicator didnt uphold. 
Ts arguments have developed somewhat over time, and I havent found anything  wrong  in 
principle with that. If T argues that if it hadnt entered into the swap  it would have done A, but 
our adjudicator rejects  that argument  and concludes T would have done not A but B, its then 
legitimate for T to argue that, even if it had done  B, it would still have suffered consequential  
losses.
T has argued that, if it hadnt entered into the swap:
it wouldnt have bought the property  to which it moved its business, thereby saving all 
the costs associated with buying and holding the property;
alternatively it would have bought only the commercial premises comprised in the 
property and not also the two residential  flats,  thereby saving all the costs 
associated with buying and holding the flats;
alternatively, if T had bought the (whole) property  via another  loan,  that loan would 
have been without the huge break costs  payable or potentially payable  under the 
swap;
so in such a case, T would have been able to respond to the economic downturn by 
selling one or both of the flats without  having  to pay huge  break  costs  and then using 
the proceeds to repay part of the loan and also to develop  the commercial  premises, 
as had always been envisaged, to earn more income;
alternatively T would have had the means to improve/repair  one of the residential 
flats and re-let  it when the flat fell into disrepair;
T would have been without  the uncertainty created by mis-sold  swap, which 
narrowed its options and hampered the realisation  of its business plans;
T wouldnt have  paid for professional help in bringing its complaints to HSBC  and the 
ombudsman service.  Nor would its directors have wasted valuable  management  
time dealing with the complaints.  
Our adjudicator wasnt convinced by Ts arguments, mainly  because  he thought there wasnt  
enough evidence  to back up the companys claims.  
T, however, believes that its case should  be favoured  because  of the balance of 
probabilities.
Ref: DRN64168592I earlier issued a provisional decision.  I too wasnt minded to uphold the claim for 
consequential losses. 
a summary of my provisional findings
the balance of probabilities
The balance of probabilities was a standard of proof used by the ombudsman  service, 
which meant that we would generally  accept as a fact something  that was more likely than 
not to have happened. 
This was sometimes misunderstood to mean  that if we thought A was more  likely than B, we 
would conclude, or we would  have  to conclude, that A happened. 
But that wasnt so. We still had to be satisfied that A was likely to have  happened.  And we 
would reach  our conclusion on that point based on the available  evidence.   
why I thought Ts arguments didnt succeed
I didnt think it was likely that, if T hadnt  gone ahead with the swap, it wouldnt have 
bought the property.  The purchase seemed to me to have been well thought through 
 before any particular  loan had been agreed to - and to have  fitted Ts plans and 
ambitions for its business at that time.  T had received a loan proposition  from its 
broker and had challenged HSBC to match it. If the bank had failed to do this, I 
thought it was more likely than not that T would have gone  ahead with the property 
purchase via another loan.
I didnt think it was likely that, if T hadnt  gone ahead with the swap, it would have 
bought only the commercial  premises,  without  the residential  flats. This would have 
entailed time-consuming  and expensive legal and property management  complexities 
for the seller of the property, which  I thought  it most  unlikely  the seller  would  have 
agreed to. It would have  been  necessary for the seller to either (a) sell off the two 
residential flats on long leases before selling the freehold of the whole property to T, 
or to (b) lease the commercial premises to T for a capital premium (the equivalent  of 
a purchase price) on a long lease while retaining the freehold of the whole property 
including the residential flats. 
Even allowing  for the decline  in Ts business and income, which  I thought was 
predominantly due to general  economic conditions not to the swap,  I thought the 
company could have  found the money  to put the relevant  flat into a fit state  to be re-
let if it had wished  to. Id reached that conclusion  based  on the same figures that the 
adjudicator had referred to.
I wasnt convinced that the swap prevented T from adapting part of the commercial 
premises and acquiring additional  income. On the one hand, T had argued it had 
been prevented  by the uncertainty created by the swap.  On the other hand, the 
company had argued that, but for the break  costs,  it would  have  sold the flat(s) and 
used part of the proceeds of sale to adapt  the premises  for letting, since  this had 
always been its plan if times became hard. In other words,  T wouldnt have reacted to 
difficulties or uncertainty by showing inaction. So there  was a degree of 
inconsistency. It was also the case that, according  to the bank,  T did generate  an 
income from part of the premises,  to the point where  most of its income was coming 
from that source. So, fundamentally the evidence didnt satisfy me that the swap was 
a substantial cause  of T not earning additional  income from the commercial 
premises. 
Ref: DRN64168593T had argued that it should be treated as if it had repaid part of the debt early  via the 
sale of the flats. The financial loss stemming from not repaying a debt early was in 
terms of interest paid; capital had to be repaid at the fixed  amount come  what may. 
Under the banks  redress, T had already been treated as if it had paid lower interest 
on the debt. It would be going too far in my view if T were also treated, in terms of 
interest paid, as if it had effectively  repaid  part of the debt by selling the flats,  while  at 
the same  time having continued,  and continuing to the present day and beyond,  to 
enjoy the beneficial use and the potential for capital appreciation  that were  
associated with the flats. That was so without my deciding whether it was likely 
T would in fact have  sold the flats.
The ombudsman service didnt  normally award  a successful complainant  costs  for 
professional help in bringing complaints. That was because  claims could be made to 
the banks review and to the ombudsman service  largely  without professional help. I 
saw no reason to depart from that approach in this case. 
It was unusual for the ombudsman service to award a successful complainant  costs.  
But we definitely  didnt do so when a complaint  didnt succeed. So I wouldnt award 
any costs to T in connection with bringing its claim for consequential losses.
Ts response to my provisional findings
T has chosen not to continue to argue that it wouldnt have bought the property  at all or 
would have bought only the commercial premises.
On all other points T disagrees with my provisional  findings. Its comments can be 
summarised as:
My provisional findings  were  short and failed to engage with some of the critical 
points T had made. The brevity  and generality  of my findings  made  it hard for T to 
understand how Id reached my conclusions. 
T continues to believe strongly  that if the swap and its prohibitive break costs hadnt  
existed, it would  have  sold both the flats and used the proceeds to adapt  the 
commercial premises for letting and to pay down the debt to the bank. This mitigation 
strategy had always featured in Ts plans, as the bank  well knew. 
A court would accept Ts case on the balance of probabilities.  
As it was Ts case that it would have sold both of the flats, it was strictly  irrelevant 
whether T had the financial means  to renovate one of them. But in fact T didnt have 
such means.
Any inaction on Ts part was due to the existence of the swap and the break costs.
Any continuing financial  benefits  deriving from Ts ownership  of the flats were far 
outweighed by the financial  losses flowing from Ts earlier inability to sell them.  
It was only when  T engaged expert  professional help that the bank took its claims 
seriously. So I should exercise my discretion and award Ts costs for this help, in 
respect of both the original claim and the claim for consequential losses. 
my final findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I need to look at whether the banks  failings actually caused consequential  losses  for T. And 
if they did, I would also need  to ask whether  its fair to hold the bank responsible for the 
losses. To do this, Id need to ask whether the bank  could reasonably foresee that its failings 
Ref: DRN64168594would result in losses  like these. In other words, Id need to be satisfied the losses werent 
too remote from the banks failings.
The interest on the compensation already paid by the bank  counts as a form of 
compensation for consequential losses. 
Im sorry  to disappoint T but I continue to find that its claim for consequential losses doesnt  
succeed.
Im sorry  T found  my provisional findings too short and too general. My findings may not 
have been lengthy but I believe they covered the material points and made clear my reasons 
for reaching  the conclusions I did. Ts claim is complex in that there  has been a lot to read 
and T has argued its case at length,  both to the bank and to me. But in essence the claim 
revolves around one central question: did the swap cause the losses  claimed by T? In 
context, this means the central question is whether the swap prevented T from gaining an 
income from the commercial premises. 
In terms of succeeding in its claim, its not enough  for T to persuade me that if the swap  
hadnt existed,  it would  have sold the flats and used the proceeds of sale as its said it would 
have used them. It has to persuade me that it couldnt have gained an income  from the 
commercial premises because of the swap. 
Its on this point that I continue to find that Ts claim fails. T manifestly was able to earn an 
income from the commercial premises, because  thats what  happened. Theres  no need for 
me to infer or speculate;  the facts speak  for themselves. 
So I see no reason  to change my provisional  findings as summarised above, which I confirm 
as final. That includes my findings on what I regard as the fair treatment of the flats in terms 
of redress. My point wasnt that the rental  income and capital appreciation of the flats 
exceeded the amount T was claiming  for consequential losses. It was rather that I wouldnt  
and dont - think it fair, in terms  of redress, to treat the interest due on the loan capital as if 
the debt had been reduced to the extent of the putative sale proceeds of the flats,  when  (a) 
the loan interest  has already been reduced  under the basic redress  and (b) T has continued 
to benefit and will continue to benefit,  in terms of rental income  and capital appreciation, 
from owning the flats.  
I agree  with T that the renovation issue regarding one of the flats is a side issue  and largely 
irrelevant. 
Regarding costs, I continue to think it wouldnt  be fair to require the bank to pay or contribute 
to Ts costs for the professional experts,  including its directors, who represented and 
assisted the company in its claim for basic  redress.  The ombudsman service,  to which  T 
had access without cost,  was available if the bank continued to reject  Ts claim.  If T 
meanwhile wished  to employ external  experts in order to argue its case  more effectively, that 
was Ts choice but it wasnt  absolutely necessary.  
Regarding the costs  associated with Ts claim for consequential loss, these wouldnt be 
awarded in any case  by this service  as Ts claim hasnt succeeded at the ombudsman 
service. 
Ref: DRN64168595my final decision
I dont uphold Ts claim for consequential  losses. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6416859