K820x#14Complaint
Mr L complains  that Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very (Very) did not 
remove a default  from his credit file after the debt was sold to a third party. Mr L says this 
affected him being  able to take additional  credit out and he does not think  the compensation 
paid to him by Very adequately reflects the impact this error  has had on him.
Background
Mr L opened an account with Very in October  2012.  A payment was missed  in December 
2016 and no further payments were made to the account after this point. Very sent a default 
notice to Mr L in April 2017 to make  him aware  of the status  of the account however, no 
contact or payment  was received from Mr L in respect of the issue.  As a result,  the debt was 
sold to a third party  in May 2017. 
Very did not update Mr Ls credit  file at the point the debt was passed to the third party  which 
resulted in two defaults appearing on Mr Ls credit file from May 2017.
Mr L cleared the debt with the third party in January 2018 after being contacted by a solicitor 
about further action that might be taken in relation  to the outstanding debt.
Mr L only became aware of the issues with his credit file when he applied to re-mortgage his 
property. He told us the lender suggested  that he get a copy of his credit  file as a soft search 
had shown there were  two defaults  recorded  on his file. 
The third party made Very aware of the issue with Mr Ls credit  file in February 2019 and 
Very rectified the issue by updating  the credit file to reflect the correct position within           
48 hours of being  informed  of the problem.
 
Mr L complained to Very who upheld the complaint and sent Mr L a cheque for £250 in 
recognition of their error.
 
Mr L referred his complaint to our service  as he did not think that Verys offer adequately  
reflected the financial situation their error had put him in.
Our investigator thought that Very had acted fairly when they were made aware  of the error 
and that the £250 they paid to Mr L represented  a reasonable level of compensation.
Mr L did not agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.                                                                                                     
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator.  I realise  Mr L will be disappointed with this outcome, 
but I dont think  that Very have acted unfairly  and Ive explained my reasoning  below.
When Mr Ls account with Very went into default and was subsequently passed to a third 
party, Very did not update  Mr Ls account which resulted in two defaults  appearing on his 
credit file.
Ref: DRN63275342I have seen Verys  internal  account  notes which show they were not aware of the issue until 
February 2019 when  it was brought to their attention by the third party. As I have seen no 
compelling evidence  to the contrary,  I think that this is likely to be the point at which they 
became aware  of the error. Once Very were notified of the issue they arranged  for it to be 
fixed within 48 hours which I think this was a very reasonable timeframe for Very to put 
things right in.
Mr L believes that having the two defaults  recorded  on his credit file affected  his ability  to re-
mortgage his property at a lower  interest  rate and to be approved  for several other credit 
facilities. However, any defaults recorded  on a credit file will affect  a persons ability  to obtain 
credit. One of the defaults had been applied  correctly  as a result  of Mr L not maintaining  his 
account in accordance with the terms and conditions of his agreement  with Very.  I am 
therefore unable  to rule out the possibility that the credit  would  have been  declined even with 
just one default on the credit file. 
Ive also not seen any evidence from the mortgage  lender about why the mortgage was 
refused however I think it is unlikely that this decision would be made solely  off the back  of 
the credit  report as lenders generally  use a credit scoring system which takes various  criteria  
into account before they make their decision.
There is no doubt that Very should  have updated  Mr Ls credit  file at the point the debt was 
passed to the third party however, they fixed the issue as soon as they were  made  aware of 
it and Im satisfied that Very took the appropriate action to put things right.  
Even if Very had reported Mr Ls account  correctly to the credit reference  agencies, it is quite 
possible that Mr L would be in the same  or a similar position regarding  his mortgage as there  
was a valid default recorded on his credit file. Therefore,  I cannot  say that Verys failure to 
record accurate information damaged Mr Ls chances of getting a mortgage at a more 
favourable rate of interest or any other type of credit facility.
As such,  I think Verys  offer of £250 in recognition of their error is fair and reasonable in this 
case and I am not going to ask them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited 
trading as Very should pay £250 to Mr L if they havent done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6327534