K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim under  his buildings 
insurance policy.
background
Mr M owns a property  which  he lets out. His tenants  caused damage to his garage and 
driveway which Mr M said was done intentionally.  Mr M made a claim on his buildings 
insurance policy.
AXA declined to cover  the damage  to the driveway.  This is because its experts said the 
damage had occurred over a period  of time.  It said the damage wasnt  caused  by a one-off 
insured event. It said the gradual damage  wasnt covered by the policy.  But it accepted the 
damage to the garage.
Mr M was paid a cash settlement of £6,223, minus his policy excess, and minus  VAT for the 
damage to the garage building. And experts  were  appointed to deal with the garage 
contents. However, AXA later realised  that Mr Ms policy  limit for malicious damage is 
£5,000 across the policy as a whole. It said it couldnt pay any further  costs  for this claim. 
AXA asked Mr M to reimburse the overpayment of £1,223. So, Mr M raised a complaint.
AXA apologised for its mistake. And offered to pay £200 compensation, which it said it would 
deduct from the amount due back from Mr M. But Mr M wasnt  happy  with AXAs decision. 
He wanted his claim settled in full, which included the removal  of asbestos within the garage. 
In addition, he said his contents had suffered further damage as it had been exposed to the 
weather for over a year and is now beyond repair. Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She felt that as AXA had made the mistake,  it was fair 
and reasonable for it to honour  the claim in full including the contents. Our investigator 
concluded that Mr M shouldnt have to reimburse  the overpayment. AXA didnt agree with 
our investigator. It said that although its experts  attended and quoted for repairs, no contract 
for repair/replacement works  had been  entered into and it didnt feel Mr M had suffered any 
financial loss as a result of it not taking the claim any further.  AXA did agree  that it was unfair  
to ask Mr M to repay the £1,223 so its agreed to waive this and pay the £200 compensation 
originally offered. But because AXA didnt agree overall the complaint has been  passed to 
an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said:
Its not in dispute  that Mr Ms claim for the damaged garage is covered. AXA accepted  it 
under the malicious  people" section of the policy  which says theres cover for loss  or 
damage caused by malicious people who are lawfully allowed in the private residence".
Whilst dealing with this claim, AXA noticed the asbestos in the garage, but Mr M has pointed  
out it didnt pay for its removal and AXA said the contents items needed to be 
decontaminated. AXA offered a cash settlement of £6,223 so that Mr M could  repair the 
garage building.
Ref: DRN65447282Mr M also made a claim for the garages contents.  He said these had been coated  with 
asbestos when  the malicious  damage to the building occurred and when the asbestos in the 
structure was removed. AXAs appointed experts  said these would be covered by the policy 
as it arises from the same insured event.  AXA said it would arrange for the contents to be 
safely cleaned and then it could be inspected to determine whether the contents could be 
repaired/replaced.
It was at this point that AXA realised it had made a mistake by paying costs of more than the 
policys limit. The policy says the maximum amount payable  for loss or damage caused by 
malicious people...is  £5,000". It further  says that if the claim is for both buildings and 
contents, AXA will not pay more than £5,000 in total".
AXA initially  said Mr M would have to return the overpayment of £1,223. But it now accepts 
our investigators finding that this would be unfair. Im in agreement. I think  its fair and 
reasonable that AXA has now said that it will honour  the full payment of £6,223. It would be 
unfair to ask Mr M to refund the overpayment.
But I dont think AXA needs  to pay anything more towards the overall cost of the claim. The 
policy is clear  that the total limit for malicious people  claims is £5,000. And where the claim 
includes both buildings  and contents,  the indemnity  limit remains  the same. Mr M has had 
this amount. And because of AXAs mistake, hes had more  than hes strictly entitled to 
under the policy.  Had AXA done  everything correctly, he wouldnt have received the full cost 
of repairing  the garage building.
I understand Mr Ms point  that he was led to believe his contents would be covered. But its 
clear that AXA made a mistake and I think its tried now to deal with that mistake reasonably. 
In fairness to AXA it realised how much  of an impact this has had on Mr M. His contents in 
the garage have  deteriorated while the claim has run on and it has agreed to pay him £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  this has caused  him. I think thats a fair 
outcome in the circumstances.
responses to my provisional  decision
I dont think AXA have  responded to my provisional decision.
Mr M did respond. Hes key points are:
AXA didnt pay for any asbestos to be removed  from the garage;
The contents of the garage werent covered in asbestos  it was AXA that said the items 
would need to be decontaminated;
The contents of the garage are now beyond saving;
The £200 compensation is not enough  to replace all the garage contents.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I understand the points  Mr M has made,  Im afraid  none  of these change the 
reasons within  the decision  Ive made. The policy limit has been reached and AXA paid out 
for that and beyond  the limit. I cant  reasonably  ask AXA to pay any more.
Ref: DRN65447283I see no reason to change  my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
pay compensation of £200*;
waive its request that Mr M repay the £1,223  paid to him in error.
*AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which we 
tell it Mr M accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6544728