K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the charges  PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) is requiring him to pay 
following the end of his car hire purchase agreement.
background
Mr S says he returned the car in a good condition with fair wear and tear. He says the 
charges PSAs requiring  him to pay are excessive and he says they arent part of his 
agreement.
Mr S also says he couldve  bought  the car at the end of his agreement and made around 
£400 profit.  So he thinks  PSA shouldve been  able to clear any outstanding charges on his 
account out of the proceeds  of sale.  
Our investigator thought Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  He said hes checked and the repair work 
could be done  at a significantly lower cost than the amount PSAs  asking him to pay. And he 
said the cost of a service  by an approved dealership  is £179 rather  than £200,  so he thinks  
this charge should be lowered.  
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
I see PSA explained Mr Ss options to him in writing  a reasonable time before his agreement  
ended, including the price  hed need  to pay to buy the car. So, whilst  I acknowledge Mr S 
feels he couldve bought  the car and sold it at a profit,  I think  PSA gave him clear  information 
about this matter.
I also see PSA referred to the terms of Mr Ss agreement dealing with the condition  in which 
the car needed  to be returned and it clearly explained that any damage would need  to be 
repaired before  the inspection  that would take place at the end of the term. 
When Mr Ss car was inspected it was assessed by reference to a set of guidelines widely  
recognised in the car leasing industry.  These  guidelines deal with the matter  of when 
damage exceeds fair wear and tear and they also say the service book must be present and 
stamped.
The principle  underlying the guidelines  Ive referred  to is that car leasing businesses should  
be able to recover the cost of any defect  likely  to have  an adverse impact on the resale  value 
of the car. 
Ive looked carefully  at the images of each item of damage PSAs charged Mr S for and Ive 
looked at the industry standard guidelines against  which his car was inspected at the end of 
Ref: DRN69967032his agreement. Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the decision to charge him for each of 
these defects is in accordance  with those guidelines and is reasonable.
The repair cost for each item of damage  identified  was determined by the business that 
carried out the inspection and it did so by reference to the manufacturers price list where 
replacement parts were  required. Thats normal practice in the vehicle leasing industry.
I acknowledge Mr S says the manufacturers price list isnt referred  to in his agreement and 
he considers the repair work could be carried out more cheaply. But I havent seen anything 
to lead me to conclude  the charges are excessive or unreasonable.  So, I cant uphold this 
aspect of Mr Ss complaint and I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require  PSA to 
reduce the charges its requiring him to pay. 
I see the service book doesnt  contain an entry for 2017. Mr Ss agreement  required him to 
service the car and I think the decision to charge him for the reduction in value  due to the 
absence of a service stamp is reasonable. I appreciate that may not be the same  as the cost 
of a service but, as I mentioned previously,  the guidelines Ive referred  to are concerned with 
the reduction in value  of a car due to a missing  service, rather than the actual  cost of a 
service.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against  PSA Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019. 
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6996703