K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that Cambria  Automobiles  (South East) Limited (CAL) mis-sold her 
payment protection insurance (PPI) with a car finance agreement.
background
Briefly:
In 2007 Miss L took out PPI at the same time as arranging finance to buy a car. The policy 
provided Miss L with protection in the event  she suffered from a critical illness or if she died. 
In the event of either of the insured risks becoming  a reality, the policy  wouldve cleared 
Miss Ls outstanding  finance.
The policy in question  was a regular premium policy and it cost around £15 a month.
I issued my provisional decision of March  2020 in which I set out the background to this 
complaint together with my provisional findings. Ive attached a copy  here because this 
forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I was likely  to 
uphold Miss Ls complaint  and I invited both parties to let me have anything they thought 
was relevant in response.
Both Miss L and CAL said they had nothing further  to add in response to my provisional  
decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, because neither party has given me anything  new to consider,  Ive not 
changed my mind  Ive reached the same conclusion as I set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same  reasons.
putting things right
CAL should  put Miss L in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and CAL should:
Pay Miss L the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, CAL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires CAL to take off tax from this interest.  CAL must give 
Miss L a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN60104222my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  and as above, Ive decided  to uphold  this 
complaint and make an award in favour of Miss L. 
I require Cambria Automobiles (South  East) Limited to pay Miss L fair compensation in line 
with the putting things  right section above. I make no other  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN60104223Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss L complains that Cambria Automobiles (South East)  Limited (CAL) mis-sold  her payment  
protection insurance (PPI) with a car finance agreement.
background
Briefly:
In 2007 Miss L took out PPI at the same  time as arranging finance to buy a car. The policy provided 
Miss L with protection in the event she suffered from a critical illness or if she died. In the event of 
either of the insured risks becoming  a reality,  the policy  wouldve cleared Miss Ls outstanding  
finance.
The policy in question was a regular premium policy and it cost around £15 a month.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. They  said they didnt think there  was 
sufficient evidence  to show that Miss L understood  she had a choice about PPI. So they 
recommended Miss L should  be compensated.
CAL disagrees. It says that while it hasnt  got copies  of all the paperwork from the time,  its shown 
enough to demonstrate that PPI was optional.
The complaint therefore  comes to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to PPI complaints  on our 
website and Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Miss Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold  this complaint and I intend making an award  in 
Miss Ls favour. While  the adjudicator recommended that the complaint should  be upheld  on the basis 
that CAL hadnt shown  that PPI was optional, I think there is a more  persuasive argument and reason  
for upholding this complaint  and Ive set this out below.
It doesnt  appear to be in dispute that CAL advised Miss L and recommended  she take out PPI. This 
means CAL had to ensure that the policy  was suitable  for Miss L based on her circumstances and 
needs at the time. And based on what Ive seen, Im not currently persuaded  that the recommendation 
made to Miss L was suitable in light of her circumstances at the time.
Miss L was recommended a policy which provided  her with critical illness and life cover only  known 
as Credit care 3. It did not provide the more traditional  elements  of PPI cover for accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. This might  suggest  that CAL took some steps to ensure its recommendation was 
suitable  perhaps Miss L had sufficient  sickness  cover or this wasnt of particular  concern  to her. But 
Im not persuaded  that CAL took all reasonable steps.  
I say this because at the time of the sale Miss L was under 22 years of age; she was single; she had 
no children or financial dependants; and she was not a home owner.  So there was nobody  financially  
connected to her who wouldve benefitted from her taking out the life cover element. And I see no real 
need Miss L had for critical illness cover. I think it highly unlikely that Miss L wouldve suffered one or 
more of the policy defined critical illnesses during  the term of the finance agreement  given her age at 
the start. This wasnt for example what  I would reasonably describe as a long-term financial 
commitment where  it might be appropriate to effect cover  despite  her young  age. Also Miss L didnt 
Ref: DRN60104224have any other significant financial commitments or anyone financially  dependent on her, which might  
have suggested it was prudent for her to have this type of cover to protect  against the insured risks 
becoming a reality. 
Because of this Im not persuaded  the recommendation to take out a critical illness and life cover only 
PPI policy  was suitable for Miss L in light of her particular  circumstances at the time. I dont think CAL 
properly advised  Miss L  it shouldnt have  recommended  the cover  to her. I therefore dont  think  CAL 
acted fairly and reasonably  when it sold Miss L PPI.
I also think  Miss L has lost out as a result  of the things CAL did wrong  I dont think  its likely  Miss L 
wouldve gone  ahead  in any event. I say this because I think shed have accepted the correct advice - 
had CAL given that to her - that she didnt have a real need  for the PPI cover and shed have chosen 
not to take the policy out. It therefore follows  that CAL needs to do something to put things right.
putting things  right
CAL should put Miss L in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should  
be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and CAL should:
Pay Miss L the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Miss L made  a successful claim under  the PPI policy, CAL can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  CAL to take off tax from this interest.  CAL must give Miss L a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given above, Ive provisionally decided to uphold this complaint  and I intend  to 
direct Cambria Automobiles (South East) Limited to pay Miss L compensation in line with the formula 
above.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6010422