K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy 
when he took out a credit card with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
background
Mr H took out a credit card in 2005 and he took out a PPI policy alongside it. The PPI cost 
£0.78 per £100  of his outstanding balance. It paid out 10% of his monthly balance if he 
wasnt able to work due to sickness, accident or unemployment for up to 12 months.  It also 
had life cover that paid off the total balance if he died or was diagnosed  with a serious 
illness.
Mr H has said he doesnt remember any conversation about PPI when he took out the card, 
so he thinks the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed and asked for the complaint to 
be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
The sale took place  in 2005  in a branch and there  isnt a recording  of what  was said or a 
sales script that I can look at, so I need  to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened. Ive looked at the application form and there is a section dealing with the PPI 
policy. Its titled Product details and there  Mr H has selected to take out PPI. Another type of 
insurance was offered  called Card Care and Mr H hasnt chosen to take that out, so I think 
Mr H was given a choice  about which insurances he wished to take out. 
Ive also seen a copy of a demands  and needs statement that shows  PPI was discussed and 
recommended to Mr H. Its recorded that he wanted  PPI for the peace of mind  it gave  him if 
his income stopped. So I think PPI was discussed and Mr H chose to take it out. I know  this 
doesnt fit with his recollections, but the sale took place some years  ago and memories  
naturally fade with time.
Halifax has accepted  that the sale was advised  so I have  to look at whether the PPI policy  
was suitable for Mr Hs needs.  Ive looked  at his circumstances at the time and I can see that 
he was eligible for the policy and its unlikely  Mr H would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. I think that the policy  was competitively priced compared 
to other  policies that were available at the time and theres nothing  about his circumstances 
which suggests it wasnt affordable. 
Mr H has said he was employed, and he had sick pay of between three and six months from 
his employer. But the policy would have paid out on top of any sick pay he had and 
potentially for longer.  And Mr H hasnt said that he had any savings or other ways to make 
Ref: DRN64846182his repayments  if he was out of work.  So I think that Mr H had a need  for the cover and the 
policy was suitable  for him.
Im not sure that Mr H was given all of the information about the PPI policy at the time it was 
taken out, for example the policy exclusions arent  detailed on the credit agreement. But he 
chose to take out the policy so it appears  that he wanted this type of cover.  The policy  was 
suitable for him and I dont think theres  anything in the information he didnt have that would 
have put him off taking it out. So I think that he would have taken it if he had all of the right 
information.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr H paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr H back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr H now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt 
done so already. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6484618