K822xcomplaint
Ms I has complained about the way Mulsanne  Insurance Company Limited handled a claim 
she made under her car insurance policy. 
background 
In July 2018 Ms I was involved in an incident  with another vehicle. The third party made  a 
claim against her policy with the insurer, Mulsanne. 
Mulsanne settled the claim as a fault claim on a without prejudice basis.  In November 2018 
Ms I decided to claim for repairs to her car. An engineer initially  said it was repairable. But 
further damage was discovered when repair works started. So the engineer said it wasnt 
economical to repair  Ms Is car. 
In December 2018 Ms I complained to Mulsanne.  She said it quoted  the wrong excess  that it 
said she owed. This was much more  than the correct excess  of £450. She was unhappy that 
it decided it wasnt economical to repair her car. She felt Mulsanne had caused delays.
Ms I felt Mulsanne had taken short cuts to settle the claim and should have done more  to 
obtain CCTV footage from other sources  which she says would have  shown the background 
to the incident.  Ms I said that as a result of Mulsannes decision, she would pay a higher 
premium at renewal due to the fault claim being  recorded against her. 
Mulsannes agent apologised for quoting the wrong  excess. It said the issue was rectified the 
same day. 
Ms I remained unhappy  and asked us to look at her complaint.  She then raised new 
complaints. She said shed left her car full of items as she thought  it was repairable. But the 
insurer wouldnt help her collect  the items now that it wont  repair her car. Ms I said the 
approved repairer  where her car was being held is very far away  and would cost her to go 
there and collect the items. 
Ms I was unhappy that some of the verification documents Mulsanne needed to validate her 
claim was in the car. So she had to go to a library  to take copies of alternative documents. 
She wants Mulsanne to pay her a total loss settlement for her car but waive  the excess. 
Shes unhappy that she continued to pay the monthly premium for her car insurance but was 
without a car. 
Mulsanne said it didnt  receive all of the documents it needed to settle Ms Is claim until 16 
May 2019. It said it wasnt prepared to waive  the excess 
Our investigator thought Mulsanne  should  pay Ms I £50 compensation for the error it made 
in quoting the incorrect excess. On balance he didnt think Mulsanne  was responsible for any 
delay in handling Ms Is claim as it had tried to contact her about whether she wanted to 
retain the salvage of her car or agree its disposal. But it didnt hear from her for over a 
month. When it spoke to Ms I, she said she wanted this service  to deal with her complaint. 
The investigator encouraged Ms I to deal with Mulsanne in settling her total loss claim. He 
told Ms I shed  need to raise her complaint about the belongings in her car with Mulsanne. 
Ref: DRN64736062Ms I said she wanted Mulsanne  to waive half of the excess. The investigator put this to 
Mulsanne, but it didnt  agree. 
Ms I reiterated her concerns about  collecting  items from her car. Our investigator explained 
that Ms I will need to raise  any new complaints with Mulsanne first. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease, Ive set out the complaints below.
Mulsannes decision to hold Ms I at fault for the incident is unfair
We dont decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether  an 
insurer has properly investigated  a claim and reached its decision in a fair and reasonable 
way. 
The circumstances of the incident are that Ms I collided into the rear of a bus. The bus 
drivers representative said Ms I crossed into the bus drivers path. Ms I said the bus driver 
attempted to undertake her and caused a collision. 
Mulsanne studied CCTV footage provided  by the bus drivers insurer.  It said this showed that 
the bus was correctly proceeding and was almost past Ms Is car when the collision 
happened. It said the bus driver didnt deviate  from its path.  Mulsanne  took into account the 
Highway Code which says that a driver should allow  extra  room  for larger  vehicles and give 
priority to buses when  one can do so safely.  
I understand Ms I said that she pulled in because there was an emergency vehicle behind.  
Shes disappointed that Mulsanne didnt try to obtain  further CCTV footage. But I dont think 
this makes a difference to the outcome and the incident that happened  between Ms Is car 
and the bus. As Ms Is car collided into the rear of a bus which was correctly  proceeding, I 
think Mulsannes decision to hold Ms I at fault for the incident was reached reasonably.  I 
appreciate Ms Is strength of feeling. But an insurer can make  a decision that its better  to 
settle a claim rather than risk significant  costs instead where it believes it chances of 
success are low. 
Mulsanne intended to charge Ms I a higher excess than she owed
On 29 November 2018 Ms I decided to make a claim  for repairs to her car. On 30 November 
2018 Ms I was quoted a higher excess.  She had to send a copy  of her policy  to show  that 
the correct excess was £450.  I understand this caused Ms I some inconvenience. When  
things go wrong, we look at the impact of the error and the length  of time a customer was 
inconvenienced for. Fortunately Mulsanne  assured Ms I immediately that it had made  a 
mistake. So the length of time Ms I was caused distress for was very short as it corrected the 
mistake on the same  day. So I think £50 compensation  is fair and reasonable here.  
Ref: DRN64736063Ms I believes Mulsanne should  waive the excess  or reduce it by half. But I dont agree that 
this is a reasonable outcome for the inconvenience caused by Mulsannes error - or the 
length of time it took to put it right. 
As Ms I intended to claim  either for repairs to her car or the total loss settlement of it, the 
excess is correctly due. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Mulsanne to deduct  it 
from any settlement it pays.  
Mulsanne wouldnt repair Ms Is car
The costs  to repair Ms Is car meant that it wasnt economical for Mulsanne to repair  it. So 
its entitled to make  a decision  under the policy to settle Ms Is claim in this case as a total 
loss settlement and not repair her car. I understand Ms I is unhappy because the approved  
repairer initially said it was repairable. But it didnt discover further  damage  until it began  
working on Ms Is car. And Mulsanne informed Ms I promptly once the repairer confirmed the 
revised estimate for repairs. So I cant say Mulsanne acted unreasonably here or caused 
undue delay. 
Ms I continued to pay for her car insurance  but didnt have a car
As Ms Is contract with the insurer is for a year and it dealt with a claim made  under the 
policy, Ms I owes the full years premium.  So if she had paid for the policy in full up front, she 
wouldnt have been entitled to a refund.  
When things go wrong,  we look at what an insurer did to put things right.  And we look at 
what a customer did to mitigate their losses. I understand there  were  reasons why Ms I didnt 
reply to calls or letters sent by Mulsanne when it tried to progress her claim. It needed to 
know if Ms I wanted to retain her car or agree for its disposal. But equally I cant  hold it at 
fault for delays here. I think Mulsanne promptly  told Ms I when the repairer  realised there 
was further damage  to her car which made  it uneconomical to repair.
Overall I think  a fair outcome is for Mulsanne to pay Ms I £50 compensation for its error in 
quoting the incorrect  excess sum to her in November 2018.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require Mulsanne  Insurance  Company Limited  to pay Ms I £50 compensation for the error it 
caused when  it told Ms I she owed a higher  excess.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6473606