K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  their secured loan account with Blemain Finance 
Limited. They are unhappy  that, when they reached the end of the term, they learned  there  
was an additional  amount  which Blemain  required them to pay.
background
In February 2008  Mr and Mrs M took out an unregulated  secured loan with Blemain. They  
borrowed £28,000 plus broker, solicitor  and administrative fees, bringing the total amount 
borrowed to £30,727.  The loan was over a term of 123 months, with the first three  months 
being subject  to a payment holiday. Interest continued to accrue on the balance  during that 
period. 
When the term was reaching its end in March 2018 Mr and Mrs M learned that there  was still 
an outstanding  balance of £2,866.22 remaining. This consisted of the remainder of the 
contractual payments due under the agreement,  together with charges and interest.  
Mr and Mrs M queried this with Blemain, and a breakdown of the charges was provided. It 
transpired that at the start of the loan Blemain  had applied a fee of £130 for Mr and Mrs M to 
have a preferred  payment date (PPD). This had attracted  interest over the term of the loan. 
There were also fees which had been applied  because  Mr and Mrs M hadnt provided details 
of their building insurance documentation  in time.  In addition Blemain had applied charges 
for failed  direct debits,  arrears letters and for making telephone contact.
After Mr and Mrs M complained, Blemain acknowledged that they hadnt been aware of the 
£130 fee for the PPD,  and so reimbursed this, along with the interest charged on it. Blemain  
also reduced the charge for not providing  insurance details from £130 to £50. 
After doing so, Blemain required Mr and Mrs M to pay £647.61, which  was made up of the 
£50 fee for the insurance administration, and four charges of £35 each for arrears handling 
and failed direct debits (so a total of £190), plus interest accrued on the £190.
Mr and Mrs M repaid their loan in May 2018. In August 2018  Mr and Mrs M complained  to 
us. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He was satisfied 
that the fees and charges  had been  charged  in line with Blemains tariff, and that they had 
been applied  fairly. Mr and Mrs M asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything provided  by 
Mr and Mrs M and by Blemain.
Blemain was a member of our consumer credit jurisdiction between 6 April 2007 and 
31 March 2014.  We could consider complaints against Blemain about  events that occurred 
between those dates,  but only in relation to loans regulated under the Consumer  Credit  Act 
1974.  Blemain  became  subject to our compulsory  jurisdiction  on 1 April 2014. So we can 
Ref: DRN65712732consider complaints about Blemains regulated activities  (including  the administration  of 
unregulated loans)  after that date.
Mr and Mrs Ms loan is not regulated under  the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  so I can only 
consider their complaint in relation to whats happened since Blemain joined our compulsory 
jurisdiction on 1 April 2014. 
The fees about which Mr and Mrs M are unhappy were all applied to the account before 1 
April 2014, so I cant comment any further on the reasons  why those charges were applied 
or if they were added fairly.
But I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ms concerns that they werent aware  the charges theyd 
incurred (and interest accrued on them) would  need  to be paid in a lump sum at the end of 
the term. 
Because the monthly payment is made up of both interest and an amount to reduce the 
capital, a missed payment  or an arrears  or administrative fee applied to the account means 
the overall loan balance  wont  reduce as it should. As a result,  the balance is higher than it 
ought to be the following month  meaning more interest is charged, the balance  goes up 
again, and then more interest is charged  the following month.
That means that over time, where a loan has been in arrears because payments arent being 
made or where administrative or arrears  fees are applied,  the balance  can go up, even  after 
the arrears have been paid off. And theres less time left to reduce it before the scheduled 
end of the loan term.  So even where the borrower  has caught up with their monthly 
payments, where  administrative fees have been  applied to the account,  the monthly 
payments are no longer enough to pay the loan off by the end of the term.
Im satisfied that the account administration since 1 April 2014 is in line with Blemains 
regulation obligations. I also note that, after Mr and Mrs M complained Blemain agreed to 
remove certain fees, as explained above.  Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable.  Blemain 
acknowledged that it hadnt  told Mr and Mrs M about the PPD at inception.  Given  this, its 
decision in 2018  to refund  this was fair. Im also satisfied that the refund in relation to 
insurance administration is reasonable.
In the circumstances, although I acknowledge  Mr and Mrs Ms concerns, I cant say Blemain  
has done anything  wrong in its administration  of the account since 1 April 2014, or in relation 
to the refunds offered  to Mr and Mrs M.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 December 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65712733
Ref: DRN6571273