K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about issues shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Black Horse  Limited (trading as Jaguar Financial Services )(JFS).
background
In September  2017 Mrs P was supplied with a brand new car and entered  into a hire 
purchase agreement  with JFS.
In November 2018 Mrs P experienced  issues with the rear brakes. The car was returned to 
the dealership  who investigated and found the rear brakes sticking.  The rear brake pads and 
discs were replaced. Shortly afterwards the front brake pads and discs were  replaced.
Mrs P complained to the finance company in December 2018. She was unhappy about  the 
issue with the brakes  and reported that the car was juddering. She was also concerned  
about a possible  fault with the AdBlue.
In its final response JFS said the dealership had repaired the brakes  and there was no 
evidence of juddering. In relation to the AdBlue it said the cars service history showed  
AdBlue top ups consistent with normal service and maintenance. 
Mrs P wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. She wants to reject 
the car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said that where  a car develops a fault after 
6 months from the date of supply its up to the customer to show that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply. The investigator said the engineer who looked  at the 
brakes in November 2018 didnt diagnose a manufacturing defect or point of supply fault. 
The investigator said that given the mileage covered by the car since the point of supply it 
was more likely that the brake pads and discs  needed replacement as a result  of wear and 
tear.
Mrs P didnt agree. She said the issues with the brakes had first been reported to the 
dealership in January 2018.  She felt that the brakes  shouldve been pressure tested to check 
that the wear  was even.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because JFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied term 
that the car has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality  if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a new car to be of a high standard and free from minor defects.
Mrs P and JFS disagree about whether the car had a fault with the brakes at the point of 
supply. In order to reach  a decision  I need  to look at all the available evidence and 
determine on the balance of probabilities whether I think the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Ref: DRN64086322Mrs P says that her son first noticed issues with the brakes in January 2018. She says he 
reported this to the dealership when  the AdBlue was topped  up. 
I havent been able to find anything  to suggest  that a problem with the brakes was reported  
to the dealership in early 2018.  Nor can I find anything to suggest that the dealership 
checked the brakes at this time. Thats not to say that the issue wasnt  reported and/or that 
the brakes werent checked  but if the brakes had been checked and a problem found, I 
wouldve expected  to find some reference to this in the available documents. Its possible 
that the brakes were checked and no problems found.
I understand that in September 2018 the car wouldnt move when Mrs P pressed the 
accelerator. Then the car lurched causing an accident. I cant  be certain of whether the 
accident was caused by a fault with the brakes or by some other issue. Theres no 
information to suggest that the brakes were inspected at the time.
I can see that Jaguar  Assist was called out in November 2018  when  the brakes seized. The 
engineer who inspected the car said that the outer rear brake  pads had worn down to the 
metal and were heavily scored. He also said the inner pads had more than 50% wear, which 
suggested that something had stuck within the brake system.
The inspection by Jaguar Assist is the only available evidence  about the brakes  getting  
stuck. The engineer hasnt said that this was a manufacturing fault or a fault which  wouldve 
been present  or developing at the point of supply.  The issue was resolved by the 
replacement of the brake pads and discs. At the time this was done the car had covered 
approximately 18,617 miles in the 14 months  since the point  of supply.
Based on the available evidence Im unable to safely conclude  that there was a point of 
supply fault. It seems more likely given the time and mileage which had elapsed  that the 
issue was due to wear and tear.
I appreciate that Mrs P has also raised concerns about the frequency with which  she has to 
top up the AdBlue and the car juddering. Theres no evidence to suggest  that the juddering 
issue shes concerned  about has been  reported to the dealership but if Mrs P is continuing to 
experience this issue then she should ask the dealership to investigate  first. In relation to the 
AdBlue, I can see that this has been topped  up three times since  the point of supply. AdBlue 
is a consumable product which requires topping up. Given the mileage covered by the car 
and the fact that AdBlue needs to be topped up as part of routine maintenance, Im unable  to 
conclude that there  is a fault.
Taking all of the available information  into account  Im unable  to say that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Because of this, I wont be asking JFS to accept 
Mrs Ps request to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Ref: DRN64086323Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6408632