K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  (BMW FS) wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr C entered into a HPA with BMW  FS in July 2017  to acquire a used car. At end 
September / early October he says the reversing camera and sensors stopped working  so 
he took the car to a garage. He was told there  was water ingress in the boot that was 
causing electrical problems. A repair was attempted but the issue returned  and so he was 
told to take the car to the manufacturer. Mr C did this and says the issue with water  ingress 
was confirmed and he was told the repair would  cost £2,500 with a potential  additional cost 
of £1,500. 
At this point, Mr C contacted the dealer but says it wasnt helpful. He also contacted 
BMW FS to say he wanted to return the car. He says he got a response on 15 April saying 
BMW FS would contribute £1,500 towards  the repair. Mr C says that given the issues  he had 
lost faith in the car as he didnt know what other  damage had been caused  due to the water 
ingress.
BMW FS says that Mr C experienced  an issue with the car which  was raised  within the first 
six months but more  than 30 days after acquisition.  It says that given this it was entitled  to 
one repair  attempt. It notes the car wasnt under warranty and offered to contribute £1,500 
towards the repair.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that the issue with Mr Cs car was identified  
within six months of him acquiring it. He thought it would have been reasonable for BMW FS 
to have had the required  repairs carried out at no cost to Mr C but this didnt happen. He 
noted that the issue with the water  ingress  had caused further  problems with the electrics  
and thought the fair resolution  at this time was for Mr C to be allowed to reject the car, have 
his agreement ended and deposit  refunded. He also recommended  that Mr C be refunded 
10% of his payment from October 2017  due to impaired  use and be paid £200  for the 
distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
BMW FS didnt accept our adjudicators  view.  It said that Mr C took the car to a third party 
garage three  months  after acquisition because of an issue  with water ingress in the boot. It 
said that Mr C didnt  tell it or the dealer about  this at that time. It said temporary  repairs  were 
carried out and Mr C continued to drive the car until February 2018  when the car was taken 
to the manufacturer. It said this could have  caused  further damage.  
BMW FS said that Mr C only contacted it after taking the car to the manufacturer. It said the 
car had a three month  warranty  and it could have been returned  to the dealer under the 
warranty but instead Mr C went to a third party  garage. 
Following the view, BMW FS offered to cover the cost of the repair  which had been  
estimated at £2,500. It didnt accept that the car should be rejected. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64839052Mr C acquired  his car through a HPA with BMW FS. Under the regulations, BMW  FS can, in 
certain circumstances,  be held liable if the car provided wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors  such  as the age and mileage 
of the car. At the point of acquisition the car was just under five years old and had been 
driven around 31,000 miles.
Mr C experienced electrical  issues with the car less than three months after acquisition  and 
in October 2017,  he took the car to a garage. At this time he was told that there  was water 
ingress in the boot which had affected  the electrical wiring and systems controlling the 
parking and battery charging. It further  said that the water had built up over time.
Given the issues that were identified,  the timing of these,  and the other comments made 
regarding the water build up, I find it reasonable to accept that this issue was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
BMW FS has said that Mr C didnt raise  the issues with it when he identified  them  but 
instead went to a third party. I understand the comments made  but given the issues Mr C 
was experiencing I dont  find he acted  unreasonably  by taking the car to a garage to try to 
understand what was happening. As the garage  wasnt able to fix the issues  he then 
contacted the manufacturer where  the cost of the repairs was explained.  Once he was 
aware of the extent  of the work required he did contact the dealer and BMW  FS. I note the 
comments about Mr C continuing to drive the car but I have  nothing  to say he was told not 
too and I find that he acted reasonably  by trying to establish what the issue was before 
making contact.
Mr C didnt raise  the issue within the first 30 days but within  the first six months and so I 
agree with BMW FS comments that it would  be allowed a repair attempt. However,  despite  
the evidence provided both from the original inspection and the further assessment which  
was carried out by the manufacturer BMW  FS didnt  say it would cover the cost of the repair. 
Instead it offered  to make a contribution towards  the repairs.  Had BMW FS offered to cover  
the cost of the repair at that time I would have accepted  repair as a reasonable remedy.  
However, given the opportunity for repair was available  and this wasnt  acted on, further time 
passed while Mr C raised his complaint.
I now need to consider  what  is the fair resolution at this time. Time has passed  and Mr C has 
said issues are continuing  and further issues arising. Given this and the nature of the 
problem I can see why he as lost faith in the car. Because of this I find that the fairest  
resolution is for Mr C to be allowed to reject  the car. 
When a car is rejected,  we expect the car to be collected at no cost to the consumer, the 
agreement to be cancelled with nothing further owing and the deposit to be refunded  along  
with interest. Mr Cs deposit is recorded in the agreement as £1,566.35. 
I have also considered the use Mr C has had of the car. I note that Mr C has had to take his 
car in for investigation but that he was able to continue  to use the car for a period of time.  
During this time his he suffered  a loss of enjoyment  due to the issues he was experiencing. 
Given this I think it fair that 10% of his payments  are refunded for this time. However over 
time the issues have  got worse and Mr C has said he had to stop using the car and I 
understand that from October 2018  he has used alternative transport. Because  of this I think  
that his payments from October 2018 should  be refunded in full.
Ref: DRN64839053I also find that he should be refunded the costs  of the inspections he had carried out and 
paid £200 for the inconvenience  he has experienced by the issues he has experienced and 
by BMW FS not covering  the cost of the repair when the issues  were initially raised.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial  Services(GB)  Limited  
should:
1.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
2.collect the car at no cost to Mr C; 
3.return10% of monthly rentals returned  to the consumer for impaired use from 
October 2017 to October 2018;
4.refund  all payments  made from October  2018 to the date of settlement;
5.refund  the deposit of £1,566.35 and pay 8% interest (simple) from date of payment to 
the date of settlement; and
6.pay £200 towards for the distress  and inconvenience this matter  has caused;
7.refund  the costs  of any inspections that Mr C has paid for (subject to invoices being  
provided);
8.remove any adverse information  regarding this agreement  from Mr Cs credit  file and 
update the credit file to show the finance has been  settled
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6483905