K820x#14complaint
Miss N and Mr M are unhappy  Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited (Sun 
Life) didnt agree to re-instate their policy after it had lapsed. 
background
Miss N and Mr M took out a unit-linked protection policy in April 1989 which included life 
cover of £75,000. 
Automatic annual increase took place in April each year and updated  the premium  and the 
life cover in line with the Retail Price Index (RPI). Miss N and Mr M selected  that the 
changes would be made automatically each  year. These increases didnt need a response 
from them. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy also had a built-in periodic review because  as the 
policyholders get older, the performance of the fund couldnt be guaranteed in the same  way 
as it wouldve been at the start of the policy. The reviews took place every five years.  Over  
the term of the policy, Sun Life wrote to Miss N and Mr M in 1994, 1999, 2004  and 2009  and 
they were informed there wouldnt  be an increase.  
In December 2014, Sun Life wrote to them and said an increase in the monthly premium was 
required from £101.33 to £155.42. Although Miss N and Mr M had to respond to Sun Life to 
let it know what they wanted to do, they didnt do this. 
A second reminder was sent to them in January 2015. But Miss N and Mr M still didnt  
respond. In March  2015, the benefits  guarantee was removed from the policy which  meant 
that when the policy  reached a fund value of zero, the policy  would lapse. In 
September 2018, the policy lapsed and Sun Life wrote to Miss N and Mr M to let them  know 
what had happened. They explained  to Sun Life they hadnt received the letters  in 
December 2014  and January 2015  and wanted  their policy  to be re-instated.  However,  Sun 
Life said it couldnt do this.
Miss N and Mr M made  a formal complaint to Sun Life. It provided  its final response to 
them and confirmed  it wouldnt  be able to re-instate the policy  as the letters were sent to the 
correct address and werent returned  due to non-receipt. It assumed the letters  were  
delivered.
Unhappy with Sun Lifes response, Miss N and Mr M brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded she didnt uphold  the complaint 
because she also thought the letters were  sent to the right address and therefore, on 
balance, she thought Miss N and Mr M wouldve received them  but took no action. She didnt 
think Sun Life needed to do anything further.  
Miss N and Mr M have asked for an ombudsman to make a decision as they disagreed with 
the investigator. So the case has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN64982612Ive had a look at the letters that were sent to Miss N and Mr M  in particular, the ones 
dated December  2014 and January 2015.  Both letters were addressed to Miss N and Mr M 
and to their current address. I havent  been  provided with any evidence which suggests they 
might have lived at another address when the letters were sent or points me to an issue  with 
the postal system. Miss N has mentioned in her communication she recalls  seeing a form 
that had to be completed but neither her nor Mr M recall receiving the letters. In the absence  
of any further evidence, Im satisfied,  on balance, that Miss N and Mr M had received the 
letters. While I appreciate  they might not recall receiving the letters,  thats  not the same as 
not actually receiving them.  
Sun Life has provided copies of letters  which further show the fund value was decreasing 
over time. But again, I cant see that Miss N and Mr M took any action to contact it to discuss 
their policy.  
I note Miss N and Mr Ms comments that they hadnt  realised the policy  would lapse. I 
appreciate this but both the 2014  letter and the 2015 letter says:
IF YOU DO NOT TAKE ACTION YOUR POLICY VALUE WILL CEASE WHEN  THE 
UNIT VALUE IS EXHAUSTED. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER IF YOU 
HAVE ADEQUATE BENEFITS FOR  YOUR  NEEDS. 
If we do not hear from you, your policy will continue with the current  benefits and 
premium level.  Therefore it is unlikely that we will be able to continue to provide the 
current level of protection  for the next five years  and the policy  will lapse.
Theres nothing in the letters provided which suggest the communication was unclear or 
misleading. Therefore,  while I understand the disappointment of not having the policy
re-instated, Im not persuaded Sun Life has acted inappropriately or treated 
Miss N and Mr M unfairly  or unreasonably. I therefore dont think  Sun Life needs to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Miss N and Mr Ms complaint against 
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6498261