K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage  which  
started in 2002.  Lloyds  has said the sale was made in a branch, and Mr and Mrs C say it 
happened over the phone. Ive not needed to resolve this issue,  however, as I dont see it 
would make a difference to my decision,  in the circumstances of this case. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Mr C has said Lloyds should have  advised him to get independent financial advice. But I 
dont think Lloyds had a duty to do that in the sale of this kind of insurance. Instead  it had to 
make sure its recommendation  was a suitable  one, and that it gave proper information. 
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Cs other comments. However, Ive decided  not to 
uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
I think Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional,  but that they still chose 
to take it. However  this did happen  about  17 years ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if they 
didnt remember all the details. I can see that the PPI is referred to as a choice in the 
mortgage form, and you indicate whether you want it by ticking  the relevant box. And Mr and 
Mrs C also signed a separate application form and direct debit form for the PPI.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay a mortgage 
can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would  have  paid benefits at the same time as 
Mr C (the person covered) received any employer  sick pay, and potentially  for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would 
have put off the time when they would need  to fall back on other sources of help (although it 
seems they didnt have  savings  at the time). This all would have put Mr and Mrs C in a more 
secure position, if they eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest  they couldnt afford  the PPI when they took it out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful.
Mr and Mrs C have said Mr C had a pension on top of his work earnings. And I can see that 
this was referred to, and taken into account  by Lloyd,  when  assessing  whether Mr and Mrs C 
should be offered  the mortgage. I think its likely Mr and Mrs C relied  on both forms of 
income for their living costs, and so its likely they would have found the PPI helpful  in 
covering their costs  if Mr C lost his employed  income for a period. 
Ref: DRN65126022Its not clear how well Lloyds explained  the costs and benefits  of the policy.  But I dont 
anyway think full and clear information  about  the costs would have  affected  whether Mr and 
Mrs C took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have been affected  by any of these.  Its likely  they were  eligible 
for the policy, and theyd  be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without 
further cost if their situation  changed.
So, overall I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6512602