K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) failed to act on his request to cancel 
the automatic  renewal  (AR) of his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr M bought  his car insurance policy online to start in March  2018. In January 2019  UKI sent 
Mr M a renewal  invite for March 2019.
In February 2019  Mr M complained to UKI. He said hed previously asked  UKI not to AR his 
policy. He wanted  UKI to pay him compensation of £45 for its poor service.  
UKI said it didnt have a record  of any request  from Mr M to cancel the AR process. It said if 
he could provide further evidence, it would consider the issue again. It didnt AR Mr Ms 
policy. No payment was taken from his account for the renewal premium. It didnt agree it 
owed Mr M compensation  for poor service. 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He requested  a further  £25 compensation for the 
additional inconvenience  of having to bring his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M didnt  agree  
and wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Mr M had requested that his policy didnt AR in previous years. But between  March 2018 
and February 2019, UKI said it didnt receive any request from Mr M to cancel  the AR 
process that year.
Mr M says he believes UKI have failed in their duty to him under the GDPR in relation to his 
personal data. This isnt part of the complaint Mr M brought to UKI in February 2019 which 
weve looked at  and so it doesnt form part of my final decision.  I understand Mr M has 
brought a separate  complaint to UKI about this which hes free to do.
UKI has provided a screenshot  of Mr Ms online journey when he bought his policy in 2018. 
Before he clicked on the buy option, the screenshot shows a heading immediately above 
titled AR. Here UKI explained that it would securely  store Mr Ms details to allow  continuous 
payment  and to AR his policy next year. UKI wrote that it would send a renewal invite 
before taking any payment  and it asked  Mr M to call it if he didnt want his policy  to AR. 
UKIs policy booklet also explained  its AR process. It said:
When your policy is due for renewal,  we may offer to renew it for you automatically 
using the payment details you have already given, unless we or you have advised 
otherwise.
Ref: DRN61166692We will write to you at least 21 days before your policy  ends and before taking any 
payment to confirm your renewal premium and policy terms. If you do not want to 
renew your policy you must  call us before your renewal date to let us know.
Mr M said UKI didnt make it clear  to him that it would AR his policy.  But I think it did. And 
Mr Ms complaint is that UKI failed to act on his request not to renew his policy automatically. 
So I think this shows that Mr M was aware that AR was included  in his policy  when he 
bought it.
UKI asked  Mr M to provide proof that hed contacted it before it sent the renewal invite to 
cancel the AR process. Mr M said he cant provide a copy of the original  email  he said he 
sent UKI on 1 March  2018. He said it was deleted after he printed off a hard copy of it. Hes 
provided a PDF document of an email dated  1 March 2018  to UKI requesting the 
cancellation of the AR process. 
Mr M says theres no evidence to support the claim that UKI didnt receive his email.  But it 
cant provide proof of something it says it didnt receive. The PDF document  Mr M provided 
isnt enough for me to conclude that UKI received  an email from Mr M on 1 March  2018. It 
therefore follows that I cant conclude that UKI failed  to act on Mr Ms instructions. 
When Mr M contacted UKI in February 2019 to complain, UKI promptly cancelled  the AR. So 
I cant say that UKI acted  unreasonably. Mr Ms policy didnt AR and UKI didnt collect the 
renewal premium.
Mr M says that it isnt a legal requirement  to automatically renew a policy. Hes correct. Many 
insurers offer automatic  renewal which can be helpful in providing continual  cover and to 
prevent a customer from being uninsured.  This is important particularly in motor  insurance 
where its illegal to drive uninsured. However  Mr M - as he was aware and as he had done  in 
previous years  had the choice to cancel the AR process if he didnt want  this option.  
Unfortunately there isnt enough to show me that this happened in March  2018 as 
Mr M says.
So I havent seen  anything to show me that UKI provided Mr M with poor service. I 
understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But this means I dont think UKI 
needs to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6116669