K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that RLUM Limited  wrongly  advised her to invest  in excessively risky 
products in 1998, 2002 and 2004, all of which she surrendered in 2006.
background
Her representative added:
While  RLUMs  paperwork claimed Mrs F was a balanced investor this was 
something advisors automatically recorded;  there is no evidence as to how such a 
risk attitude was arrived at or whether this was discussed with Mrs F.
Mrs F asked to invest in the lower  risk Corporate  Bond fund in 2005 but the advisor 
said this wasnt possible
The subsequent  advisor, in 2006, then recommended this (based on an accurate 
assessment of her risk propensity) and she agreed to this switch
In 1998 Mrs F was advised  to invest £50 per month.  The Fact Find is mainly incomplete but 
states she was a balanced investor.  Her previous  investment experience  was not recorded. 
The recommendation section was left blank so its not clear  how a suitable  investment fund 
was chosen.
In 1999 there was an endowment review  which stated  that Mrs F was a balanced investor. 
She was recommended  to invest in the UK Growth Unit Trust PEP but declined to do so.
In 2002 Mrs F was advised  to make additional £50 per month contributions to her existing 
investment ISAs plus £25 per month  in a UK Growth Unit Trust and £25 per month into the 
European Growth Unit Trust.  The investment  term was identified as 10 years plus, and her 
attitude to risk as balanced.
In 2004 she was advised to make additional  £50 per month contributions to her existing 
investment ISAs plus £25 per month  in the UK Growth Unit Trust and £25 per month in the 
European Growth Unit Trust,  with her risk attitude  recorded as balanced.
In 2005 Mrs F saw a different adviser  who recommended  she invest £150 per month in a 
Corporate Bond Income fund and take out a new mortgage.
An adjudicator at this service  felt most  of her complaint should be upheld.
Having analysed the available documentation including the fund literature he felt that while 
Mrs F had generally been prepared to take a medium or balanced risk with her money  
several of the products posed a greater risk than this, and would more  fairly be described  as 
adventurous from a risk perspective.
In particular, he felt the UK Growth Unit Trust fund and the European Growth Unit Trust fund 
were not suitable  for her declared objectives,  particularly given the inherent volatility 
involved. In essence he felt these  posed too much risk for a balance  investor  and would 
only be appropriate for an adventurous investor - as defined  by RLUM in its literature.
Ref: DRN64647992He therefore felt RLUM should pay compensation by comparing how much she might  have 
got on these invested sums via a more  suitably balanced investment. He outlined the 
formula this service uses in these circumstances.
RLUM did not agree and reiterated that it believed these products  were suitable for a 
balanced investor  and therefore suitable  for Mrs F.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to explain that there  is no universally agreed understanding of what a 
term such as balanced  investor or adventurous investor means. Equally, attempting to risk 
rate specific  funds by reference to terms such as these is, at best, an inexact science. So it 
is not my role to seek to deliver a verdict on the precise  level of risk posed by a fund, let 
alone at a specific date in time i.e. when  the fund in question  was recommended.
Instead, my role and that of this service, is to assess whether an advisors  recommendations 
were, on the balance of the available evidence, likely to have been  suitable for the clients 
background, circumstances and likely objectives - and whether the client was in a fully 
informed position  to decide whether to go ahead  with such  recommendations.
In this case I have not seen sufficient evidence to indicate that RLUMs advisor fully explored  
how much  risk Mrs F wanted  to take with her money  on any of the dates in question  or 
gave her sufficient information  to decide if she wanted to take what is broadly understood as 
a medium degree  of risk (i.e. balanced) with her money.  
So I am not persuaded he was able to safely conclude  she was looking for a medium risk 
investment, let alone fully understood the potential  implications of this.
Crucially, Ive seen no evidence to indicate that he spelt out how much  risk she was taking 
via the recommended  funds. Both the fact finds and suitability letters, in my view,  fall far 
short of what was required when it came to exploring her risk propensity and spelling out the 
risk of the recommended funds.
Given her background  (probably no relevant investment experience), modest income  (basic  
rate taxpayer) and savings, I very much  doubt whether Mrs F would have wanted  to take a 
large risk with her regular  invested sums. Whether  she would, if properly advised, have 
chosen to take a fairly modest  level of risk or a broadly medium  level of risk  if fully aware 
of the likely implications  for the security of her capital  is hard to say. On balance,  given  her 
general financial situation it may well have been somewhere between these two broad 
categories.
However, I share the investigators view that the two funds in question posed a greater risk 
to Mrs Fs money than I think she would have  been  happy with, if fully informed. Both 
exposed nearly  all of her money  to risk, with the European fund posing additional risks via 
currency fluctuations.  So, if one accepts that the medium  risk category covers  a range of 
potential risk from low-medium to high-medium  I think it is fair to say that a fund with virtually  
all of the invested money in risk-based assets is towards the upper end of such a spectrum. 
The Key Investor  Information documents support such a conclusion.
Ref: DRN64647993So whether  it is fair to describe these  two funds as within  the generally-accepted balanced 
risk category or not, I am satisfied that they posed  too much  risk for Mrs Fs likely situation  
and objectives.  
The redress  formula recommended by the investigator contains a much broader  mix of 
assets than the two funds (where virtually all of Mrs Fs money was in shares) with the index  
including cash,  bonds and property  i.e. a significant amount in risk-free or very low risk 
assets along with a wider asset spread. 
I have considered whether redress should  be based on a mix of this medium  risk formula  
and an explicitly low one but I dont think there  is sufficient evidence to reach such  a 
conclusion. Given this I think the investigators proposed  redress is fair and reasonable.
I therefore instruct RLUM to pay compensation as follows:
fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs F as close to the 
position she would probably now be in if she had not been  given unsuitable  advice.
I take the view Mrs F would have  invested  differently. Its not possible  to say precisely what 
she would  have done differently. But Im satisfied what  Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given her circumstances and objectives  when she invested.
what RLUM should do
To compensate Mrs F fairly it should:
Compare the performance of Mrs Fs mis-sold investments with that of the 
benchmark shown  below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investments. If the actual value  is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable.
A separate calculation should  be carried  out for each 
investment. You should also pay interest as set out below.
      Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs F in a clear, simple format.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namesstatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
UK Growth  
Trust and 
the 
European  
Growth  
Trustsurrendered FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index7 May 1998 21
November
20068% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
for each investment:
Ref: DRN64647994actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced 
a return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted  
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in 
the calculation  from that point on.
If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept 
if it totals all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs F wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable  measure of comparison 
given Mrs Fs circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
further information
Some examples of how the calculation should  be carried out are available on our website 
under Publications / Online Technical Resource / Investment  / Calculating 
compensation in investment complaints.
Ref: DRN64647995my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  RLUM Limited to pay compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6464799