K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998 by post.  Mrs L says Barclays Bank  Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Barclays has provided a copy of the paperwork  available from the time the policy was 
sold. The application Mrs L completed when she applied for her card had a separate  
section for PPI with equally prominent yes and no option to either  accept or decline the 
policy. The option to take the policy has been  ticked and the application  form has been 
signed. So I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs L didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand she may not remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Mrs L did receive some  sick pay from her employer if she couldnt  work 
and would also receive some redundancy pay if she lost her job. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to what  Mrs L had and for longer than her sick pay. And it looks  like 
she wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
Ref: DRN64125972But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because:  
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs L about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs L has said. But, for the reasons above, these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mrs L any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6412597