K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains about the poor service  and unclear information he received from 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco)  regarding  the maturity of his Fixed Rate ISA.
Background
Mr W had a Fixed Rate ISA that was due to mature in March 2019.  In advance of the 
maturity date Mr W called Tesco to discuss his options and give his instructions but he was 
advised to call back on the maturity date instead. 
Mr W called  back  on the maturity date and following a lengthy  discussion he stated that he 
wanted to reinvest  his money in a new Instant access ISA with a rate of 1.44%. The advisor  
agreed to call Mr W back two days later.
Mr W realised in advance of the arranged call back that his new ISA hadnt been  opened.  He 
spoke to the original  advisor who said that it wasnt yet open as they were awaiting his 
instructions. Mr W was frustrated as this communication issue  had resulted in him suffering a 
loss of interest, so he called back to speak to a different advisor  and raise  a complaint.
Mr W then decided to transfer  some of his money  out of Tesco to a savings account with a 
different organisation. Over several calls Mr W was provided with unclear information  
regarding which account number he should use to do this, which  ultimately resulted in a 
delay in the transfer of the funds.
Mr W told Tesco that he had various health  issues which  included  needing to use hearing 
aids and that he had difficulty understanding strong accents.
Tesco upheld Mr Ws complaint and put him back in the financial position he would  have 
been in if the account  had been opened  and the transfer had happened at the time of his 
requests. Tesco  also offered  to pay Mr W £50 in compensation. Mr W wasnt  happy  with 
Tescos response and he referred  his complaint to us for consideration.
Our investigator recommended that Tesco  increase their offer of compensation by £100 to 
£150 to reflect the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr W. Tesco did not agree and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  the 
complaint and Ive explained my reasons below. 
Having listened  to the call on the day of maturity, I confirm that Mr W explicitly stated that he 
wanted to invest  this money into the Instant Access ISA with a rate of 1.44%. However, I 
understand that the advisors intention was to call Mr W back once the accrued interest had 
been posted to the account and open the account at that stage. I think the advisor never 
clearly stated what the reason for the call back was going to be and as a result  I believe     
Mr W thought  this call back was only to confirm his instructions had been carried  out and 
that the account had been  opened.  
Ref: DRN64707102It is apparent that the advisor and Mr W have misunderstood each  other as Mr W called 
Tesco prior to the arranged call back to question why the new account  had not yet been 
opened. On the contrary, the advisor started the prearranged  call by asking Mr W if he 
wanted to open the account. 
It is clear that Mr W expected the account to be opened on the day of maturity. As a result of 
this misunderstanding,  Mr W decided to move some of his money away from Tesco which  
then led to several calls with a different advisor regarding  the transfer. 
Having listened  to the calls with the second advisor,  I think  he provided Mr W with a large  
amount of unnecessary information  which confused Mr W. This resulted in Mr W asking  the 
same question about which account number  should be used to complete the transfer  in the 
subsequent calls. The advisor failed  to clearly answer the question and this lack of clarity 
resulted in a delay in the money being transferred.
I can see that both advisors  were  trying to assist  Mr W yet neither clarified his requirements  
despite Mr W repeatedly telling them that he had issues with his hearing which could affect  
his understanding.  The original advisor was not clear about  what was going to happen 
following their call and Mr W understood she was going to open the account that day. Had 
this misunderstanding  not occurred then I dont think Mr W would have transferred the 
money away from Tesco and would therefore not have had to deal with all the stress and 
unnecessary delays that occurred as a result  of trying to move  his money elsewhere.
Although there has been no financial impact in this case as Tesco  have already adjusted  the 
interest on the accounts, Mr W has told us he has been stressed when he was already 
unwell due to the events  that occurred. I therefore  think Tesco should increase their offer of 
compensation by £100, taking it to £150, to adequately reflect  the impact on Mr W.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  the complaint. I direct Tesco  Personal  Finance 
Plc to pay Mr W a total of £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  this matter 
has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Tara Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6470710