K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B is complaining about  Thomson Brown Financial Management Ltd (Thomson Brown)  
because she says she received unsuitable  investment advice from one of its 
representatives. She says she ended up with an investment that wasnt  suitable  for her.
Background
In 2014, Mrs B invested £40,000 in shares  in a Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme (SEIS)  
involving a restaurant. She says she borrowed  the money to fund the investment from her 
business and received  advice from her adviser, Mr N of Newport Financial Management LLP 
(Newport FM).
The investment subsequently failed  and, sadly, it seems Mrs B has lost her money. Because 
Newport FM was an appointed representative (AR) of Thomson Brown, she thinks  Thomson 
Brown is responsible  for her losses.
Thomson Brown didnt  accept Mrs Bs complaint. It said the investment was arranged 
through a different business to which its never  been connected or accepted responsibility for 
its actions. In different  correspondence it said the investment was arranged  through either 
Newport Capital LLP or Newport Tax Management.
I issued a decision, in which I said we can consider this case. In summary,  I concluded:
Mrs B bought shares and, under the RAO, advising on the merits of buying or selling 
them was a specified activity (article 53). So was arranging deals in those 
investments (article  25), and agreeing  to advise on or arrange  deals in them  (article 
64).
Mr N was involved in arranging the share  purchase and also offered advice (as 
defined in article  53 of the RAO) on this. 
While  the terms of the AR agreement meant  Mr N wasnt required to act exclusively 
for Thomson Brown, the fact he advised  on the share purchase  in an email from his 
Newport FM address was compelling evidence he was representing that business, 
and was acting  in his capacity as an AR of Thomson Brown,  at the time.
The AR agreement  authorised Newport  FM to carry  out all regulated activities 
Thomson Brown was itself authorised  for. The Financial Services  Register records 
Thomson Brown is authorised to advise on and arrange investments, including  
shares, for retail  customers.
The AR agreement  said Newport  FM couldnt  get involved in corporate  finance 
activities. While the restaurant  seems to have  been  conducting a capital raising  
exercise, Mr N doesnt appear to have been  involved in making  those arrangements 
such that the exclusion in the AR agreement  would apply. Instead, he was involved in 
advising on and arranging an investment in company shares, an activity for which  
Thomson Brown accepted responsibility.
Thomson Browns requirement  for pre-approval for business involving certain types  
of investment amounted to a restriction on how that business should  be done and, as 
Ref: DRN67976302established in the case of Anderson v Sense  Network,  isnt sufficient for Thomson 
Brown to avoid responsibility.
While  theres  evidence  another  party,  Newport Capital (which wasnt  connected to 
Thomson Brown),  may have also had a role in arranging Mrs Bs investment, that 
doesnt affect my decision on whether we have  jurisdiction  to consider the complaint 
made against Thomson Brown covering the actions of its AR.
Thomson Brown still disputes  that this complaint falls within our jurisdiction and says it 
wasnt involved in, or responsible for, any perceived  advice  process.  It raised the following 
key points:
Mrs B was an elective professional client, which means the complaint doesnt come 
under the jurisdiction  of the ombudsman  service.
The FCA Register records Thomson  Browns permissions and listed investment 
types include the purchase of shares in a private limited company. But its 
permissions only allow it to advise  retail clients, not elective professional  clients. 
Mrs B signed a meeting note (dated 16 May 2014) for Newport Capital stating 
she was an elective  professional. She also signed  another document on 4 
December 2014 confirming she was an elective professional client in relation to 
another investment introduced to her by Mr N. 
Mrs B also withdrew money from her business  to fund the investment, which 
must be deemed as acting in a business capacity and not as a retail  client. 
Mrs B didnt  purchase shares.  The activity carried out by Mr N was instead to assist 
in a capital raising exercise.
Its clear from the Companies  House  website that Mr P of Newport Capital not 
only arranged the whole scheme,  but was also the only shareholder, owning a 
single share. The company  commenced  and the share was issued on 17 April 
2014. Mrs B invested in June  2014. This is clear evidence she couldnt  have  
purchased shares as there were  no shares to purchase. It instead demonstrates 
this was purely a capital  raising  exercise carried out by Newport Capital. 
This is further confirmed in an e-mail  from Mr B to a colleague and copied to Mr 
N, in which he said:
please can you liaise  with [name of colleague] (who  is now co-ordinating the 
FURTHER RAISE and communicating  with existing investors) or [name  of 
another colleague].
Theres no mention in this e-mail of shareholders and the term further raise by 
definition means  there was an initial raise and that was what  Mrs B invested in. 
Furthermore, it appears potential investors were offered  incentives  to invest  such  
as 20% discounts  on food, invites to complimentary  annual events as well as 
discounts on bookings.  Such incentives are a strong indicator of a capital raising 
exercise as opposed  to a regulated advice process.
The AR agreement  is clear that the services Mr N was authorised to advise on 
and arrange didnt include corporate  finance  activity unless specifically approved  
Ref: DRN67976303in writing by Thomson Brown. Its beyond doubt that there were no shares 
available to purchase and that this should  have  been notified  to Thomson Brown 
for approval.
Mr Ns email correspondence  with Mrs B was sent in a personal/private capacity and 
therefore not carried  on by way of business.
Mr N and Mrs B were  close friends. This is evidenced in their email 
correspondence, in which  they refer to each other  by nicknames, including Hun 
or Honey, and also sign off with kisses.
Mr N says the investment came  about  as follows.  Mrs B and another friend, Mr L, 
were wealthy  business people and were  considering purchasing  a pub/restaurant 
in partnership with Mr N. Mr N decided against proceeding due to a lack of funds 
but in April 2014, Mr P contacted  him to tell him Newport Capital had set up 
another entity to invest in, which was related to investing in a restaurant. While 
Mr N wasnt in a position to invest himself, Mr P said it might be something that 
Mr L and Mrs B would  be interested in. Mr N then told Mr L and Mrs B about his 
discussion with Mr P and said hed introduce them to him.
Mr N says he then left things at that, except for a few phone calls to arrange  
meetings/calls with Mr P. Also, due to Newport Capitals lack of administration, he 
had his secretary complete paperwork on its behalf.
Regulated activities are extensively defined in the Regulated Activities  Order (the 
RAO) made pursuant to section 22 of The Financial  Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) (an activity of a specified  kind ). Section 22 contains an additional 
condition, namely,  that the activity must be carried on by way of business. 
Satisfying this condition is essential before an activity can be regulated, and 
before one gets to the RAO.
Its clear from Mr Ns emails that he was acting as a friend  in a private/personal 
capacity (pursuant  to their friendship) and certainly  not on behalf of Thomson 
Brown, and thought he was doing the right thing by introducing  Mrs B to Newport 
Capital to meet her appetite for high risk/reward  investments. As a result,  the 
complaint doesnt relate to regulated business  and falls outside the scope  of 
section 39 of FSMA and our jurisdiction.
I assumed Mr N was acting in his capacity as an advisor of Newport  FM because 
correspondence was sent from his Newport  FM email address.  But emails sent 
from a Newport FM business address dont automatically make the content 
Newport FM business.  This is made clear in clause 6.1.10 of the AR Agreement.
Mr N didnt provide Mrs B with regulated advice.
Article 53 of the RAO provides that:
Advising a person  is a specified kind of activity  (1) if the advice is-
Point 1 must be cross-referred to section  22 of FSMA, which  introduces the 
concept of an activity of a specified  kind .
Ref: DRN67976304(b) advice on the merits of [the client]  doing any of the following 
Buying, selling, subscribing for, exchanging, redeeming, holding a particular 
investment
The important part of this definition is the phrase advice on the merits. As a 
matter of language, advice  on the merits  of an investment entails a comparison 
of the present position with the proposed future  position. In other words, to advise 
someone on the merits of taking a particular course  of action involves advising 
them on the pros and cons. Theres reasonable argument that the email 
exchanges between  Mrs B and Mr N, in particular where  he refers to the 
investment as a proper little gem do not evidence such  a discussion of merits.
The other circumstances also indicate no regulated advice was given. In 
particular, theres  no semblance  of a proper documented advice process in 
connection with the investment, as would  be expected, if a proper advice process  
took place. For example,  no suitability letter was issued, which  Mrs B would 
surely have been expecting from Mr N if shed received  advice as shed done 
business with him on many occasions and knew how he conducted regulated 
business.
Also, neither  Newport  FM nor Thomson  Brown received any remuneration  in 
relation to the alleged advice. It understands Mrs B paid Newport Capital or 
Newport Ventures directly  and that Mr N was paid for introducing Mrs B by 
Newport Capital and the capital raise project.
Mr N certainly  never followed any investment processes TBFM  had in place. But 
why would he when  he merely  acted  as an introducer to Newport  Capital?
Thomson Brown exercised control through the use of a pre-approval  process.
It was essential  to have a pre-approval  process  in place to restrict activity  of the 
AR and ensure all business was written according to Thomson Browns  approved 
processes. Ive dismissed this, stating that pre-approval didnt prevent what  
business was done and merely controlled how business was conducted. This 
conclusion is fundamentally flawed. 
The pre-approval  process was put in place to control the progress of pre-
approved business  and the prevention of business  that doesnt  receive  pre-
approval. A regulated activity such as advising  on shares would  have been  put 
through this pre-approval control and prevented from happening as Mr N didnt 
hold the necessary qualifications to advise on shares and was never deemed 
competent to do so. The fact no pre-approval was sought by Mr N, or required by 
Thomson Brown, is confirmation  his activities in this case  were separate to 
regulated activities  connected to Thomson  Brown.
Mr N has demonstrated a clear  path of carrying out other activities  separate to the 
business he conducted for Thomson Brown
The AR Agreement confirms Mr N wasnt required to act exclusively for Thomson  
Brown and a clear path can be established that confirms he wasnt acting on 
behalf of Thomson Brown in this case.  
Ref: DRN67976305Mr N not only introduced Mrs B to this scheme,  he introduced other elective  
professional clients  to Newport Capital. 
Further proof of this is that Mrs B is complaining Mr N gave advice on another 
EIS called Microskin UK and were looking into another complaint shes  made 
about his activities.  
Even more conclusive  evidence is contained  in Mr Ns e-mail correspondence  
with Mrs B. On 5 June  2014 he said we now need the funds from subscribed 
investors. Further, on 9 June 2014, he says as we exchanged on this on 
Friday. Further  emails attached confirm the we referred to is not and has 
nothing to do with Thomson Brown.
Reference to Newport Capitals  compliance  file is surely confirmation that it was 
its advice process.  Reference to Newport Capitals admin is another  indicator. As 
is the email from Mr W of Newport  Capital to Mr N dated  1 July 2014,  which  said:
Please do not put these  minutes on your system as they are Newport Capital 
minutes and shouldnt be on the NFM [Newport FM] system.
All of this undeniably  shows  Mr N was acting in another capacity as agent/introducer 
for another  company,  which  he was permitted to do under the AR Agreement.
If the payment  trail is analysed, all income  connected to regulated activities  
conducted by Thomson Brown and Newport FM would be paid via Thomson Brown 
agencies. This means regulated  activities for which Thomson Brown can be held 
responsible involved  a restriction in terms of having  to use Thomson Brown agencies 
only. No such agency was used in this case,  as it was not a regulated/permitted 
activity connected  to Thomson Brown.
According to Companies House, there were 14 investors in this scheme.  Mrs B says 
she hadnt heard of Mr P or Newport Capital previously. But she attended the 
opening night  of the restaurant along  with only 11 other  people.  Its unlikely Mr P or 
his colleague  wouldnt have introduced themselves as this was a complimentary 
dinner for a small number of people who had invested in their project.
Following receipt of this response, I asked our investigator to contact  Mrs B for her 
comments on what Mr N had said about how the investment came about,  particularly the 
suggestion that they had been considering a joint business venture to buy a pub/restaurant.  
Mrs B responded as follows:
This is not an accurate account.
The [restaurant] investment was in 2014. Mr N told me in 2015 (the year after the 
investment) that he was going to buy a pub and we discussed his business plans in 
connection with this. I showed Mr N a courteous  interest in his new project and 
looked over his business plans as a favour because at the time I thought he had 
always taken an interest  in my wellbeing.  I am attaching an e-mail catch up dated in 
July 2015 in which Mr N tells me about his liaisons with the bank. This proves the 
date was after the [restaurant] investment and makes it clear that this was his own 
Ref: DRN67976306venture. Later on, Mr N asked me to lend him some money for the pub purchase,  
which I declined. I have  no idea who Mr L is - I have never heard of him.
The [restaurant] investment came  about  because Mr N sent me an email on 
21/05/2014 telling me he had found  a little gem that would be a good investment for 
me, with the details  of the [restaurant] investment. He then followed up with me in the 
usual way, by telephone/  e-mail and meeting and persuaded me to make  the 
investment.
Mrs B enclosed an email she received from Mr N dated 29 July 2015,  which  says:
With ref to the Pub project,  I sent on all the financials to the bank as discussed and 
had a very good meeting  with my prospective new manager who was extremely  
positive about  everything.  This was mainly because a) He knows the place and rates  
it as highly as I do and b) Agrees the figures  stack up.
As he said these days you dont get to the meeting stage if they dont  feel its a 
winner, he was very thorough and had gone  through the financials and the business  
plan with great detail  which I appreciated. He said the only aspect going  against me 
was that they like to see at least 3 years experience before lending  to a new 
business venture,  but he understood my background  with the Olds being in the trade 
for 26 years, of which  I also had a lot of involvement etc.
I meet with them on 22nd, and he is packaging up and sending  to his underwriters, 
and is confident all will get passed,  although they may want further  info - expect to 
hear back within a fortnight.
After seeing these comments from Mrs B, Mr N said the following:
I have looked  back through old files the best I can, but as said previously a while 
back when my IT people did something to remove Newport from my settings,  they 
also inadvertently  removed years worth  of old Newport emails,  of which I would have 
had various communications with [Mrs B] ref Pub business info.
But what  I would say is the Pub near purchase  was not "How the [investment] 
business came about" merely with all the other  info provide a background to [Mrs B] 
as a cash rich investor. In May 2014 I was looking at buying a local pub down the 
road from me which was a bank repossession, this was a personal venture (nothing 
to do with financial services) my co investor  at the last minute informed me that he 
was going to come up short and as a personal  friend in discussing with [Mrs B] she 
was happy to be a part investor in the freehold  building itself - matters fell through as 
another offer was accepted, but as I was now minded to pursuing  this area I looked 
at an old pub my parents  nearly bought in the 80s, of which [Mrs B] was happy to be 
involved with, but all fell through as their accounts didnt stack up.
Again as said I had only included  this personal  information to help give an accurate 
background picture, also whilst looking at old emails  I did stumble across the 
attached which was another non regulated "opportunist" style investment [Mrs B] 
emailed me asking for my thoughts, I barely remember it, but as you can see 
"LUXURY PROPERTY INVESTMENT AT HAPSFORD  HALL  CHESHIRE  - 
APPROX. 23% RETURN ON INVESTMENT  WITHIN 12 MONTHS" is not your 
Ref: DRN67976307normal run of the mill investment. Again just trying  to give a full picture of investment 
knowledge and appetite  etc.
He included an email  from Mrs B, which simply said What  do you think of this? It included 
details of an unregulated luxury  property investment, Hapford Hall, offering significant  
investment returns.
After seeing these comments from Mr N and the attached email, Mrs B said:
[Thomson Brown] states On the same email  dated 5th June 2014, Mr N states  The 
Pub [name of pub] I think  I am going  to come up a little short,  but would love to pinch  
5 minutes of your time if we could  talk today please. 
Stating I think I am going to come  up a little short strongly suggests this is Mr Ns 
own project, not a joint business venture. If it were a joint venture, I think Mr N would  
have said I think we are going to come up a little short.  I have been  back  over my e-
mails and cant find anything regarding  him buying a pub [name of pub] in 2014.  I 
dont remember discussing [name of pub] with Mr N but I do remember  that he told 
me he wanted to buy a pub. As I stated in my previous  email,  Mr N asked me to lend 
him some money to help him to buy a pub in 2015  and I have sent you e-mail  
evidence regarding the timing of this. I remember this because Mr N was quite 
determined and I felt pressured and very awkward  about it at the time, but Im not 
really sure of the relevance to this matter. As a single  parent, running a business with 
three children, I was not in a position to be considering  taking on another business,  
not even in partnership.
[Thomson Brown] states You can see from Mr Ns email there  was another  investor 
who will confirm  exactly what  Mr N has said. However, I dont and feel no need to 
involve other  parties who were also involved in the purchase,  although I will if 
continually asked to provide further  information.
Presumably this other investor is Mr L (referred to in a previous  e-mail from you).  I 
absolutely assure  you that I have  never  met, had anything to do with him or even 
heard of him before.  I would be interested  also very concerned  - to know  what  he 
has to say about me and our dealings with each other.
. . . .
Regarding the Hapford Hall e-mail,  it would have been a random e-mail that came 
into my inbox which I forwarded to Mr N as my Financial Adviser because it might be 
relevant/of interest to him. I often forward e-mails to people if I think  they might  be 
interested in them. I have  never invested in Hapford Hall and dont know anything  
about it, other than what it says in the e-mail. I do not believe that me forwarding this 
e-mail to Mr N constitutes an investment idea, nor does it prove that I have any 
knowledge of investments.
[Thomson Brown] makes  reference to my close friendship  with Mr N:
I think it is normal that, having dealt with Mr N for about 8 years,  over that time we 
naturally developed a friendly  and trusting relationship, especially because as my 
Financial Adviser he had access  to confidential  financial information  about me and 
my personal circumstances. He came  to my house periodically for financial  review 
Ref: DRN67976308meetings and so he met my children, and my partner,  for example. In the interest of 
being transparent I want to tell you that I was also invited to his . . . . birthday party  
(along with around 200 other  guests)  However,  I met Mr N in the capacity  of 
Financial Advisor and this was the basis of our relationship and almost  all of our 
communications. I dealt  with Mr N in his role as a professional expert  and paid for his 
advice on that basis. He is a highly personable and plausible  individual that comes 
across with integrity and sincerity, and this is why I trusted him. I dont think that the 
fact that we had a friendly relationship meant that Mr N had right to use his 
professional credentials  to give me unsuitable  and inappropriate investment advice.  
. . . .
[Mrs B] she was happy to be a part investor  in the freehold building  itself -  I 
absolutely dispute  this statement. My involvement in Mr Ns plans to buy a pub was 
that I helped  him with his business  plans,  because this is something that I understand 
how to do and I was pleased to be able to help him because I thought  he had helped 
me over the years. As I have stated,  he asked me for a loan in 2015. 
. . . .
I believe that I have,  over the course  of this investigation, sent you extensive e-mail  
evidence of the fact that Mr N recommended  and advised me to buy these 
investments in his capacity as a professional financial adviser, not as a business  
partner or a friend.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think this complaint should 
be upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Mrs B didnt accept my provisional  decision and made the following key points:
The restaurant wasnt a start-up.  She invested  into an existing business  that was 
planning to grow its profits by introducing an up-market dining provision with a 
Michelin-starred chef. Shes provided  copies of marketing documents to confirm this, 
none of which she believes  include  investment warnings to indicate it could be a 
high-risk investment.
Her relationship  with Mr N was a purely  professional one of financial adviser and 
client and it would  be incorrect  to say they met on a purely social  basis. It was for this 
reason that she trusted his advice and when he recommended a product and didnt  
exercise additional due diligence. She appointed Mr N as her adviser because she 
doesnt have investment  expertise  and relied on his in the same way as she would 
with a solicitor or accountant.  She thought she did understand what  was involved  in 
the investment  because of the way Mr N explained it to her, but he didnt point out 
that it was a high-risk investment. She wouldnt have  invested but for Mr Ns advice.
My provisional decision suggests  that, because she runs her own business, she has 
some expertise in other areas of businesses and should have an understanding  of 
investments. Shes adept at formulating  business plans on an Excel spreadsheet and 
the extent of the help she gave Mr N with his business plans was simply to formulate 
the numbers he gave her, including itemised  revenue and expenditure, into a 
presentable format  he could take to the bank. She doesnt have the ability or 
Ref: DRN67976309experience to understand and analyse the risks of other businesses and if that were 
the case, there would  have been no reason  for her to use Mr Ns services.
On the surface,  the amount she drew from her business appears to be a huge  
income. But she was required to pay a considerable sum to her husband as part of 
their divorce settlement. She was also the sole provider for her children who were all 
at private school. So while it may look as though she had plenty of money and this 
investment was insignificant, thats  not actually  the case. The reality  of her 
circumstances, of which Mr N was aware,  shows that high risk investments  were 
inappropriate for her and that she shouldnt have been advised to make them.
As a single mother, discounted hospitality and entertainment were of absolutely no 
interest or use to her.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the comments made in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions havent  
changed. Im not upholding  it.
To be clear, Im satisfied  the relationship between Mrs B and Mr N was primarily a 
professional one of financial adviser  and client. This is a key consideration that underpinned 
my view Mr Ns comments about  the restaurant  investment  should  be viewed as giving 
advice (as its defined in the RAO) and that the complaint is one we can consider.
Once its established Mr N gave advice and that the case falls within our jurisdiction, the key 
issue is whether it was appropriate for Mr N to give that advice to Mrs B. That involves a 
consideration of whether the investment was suitable for her circumstances, particularly in 
view of the risks associated with it.
I thank Mrs B for confirming  the restaurant  was an ongoing concern  that was seeking to 
expand the base of its operations rather than a brand new start-up. But I dont  think  that 
changes the fact that the investment posed  significant risk to her capital. The decision I need 
to make is whether  these  risks were consistent with those she was prepared  to accept in 
return for the potential  returns  and other  benefits.
The crux of Mrs Bs complaint is that she didnt realise the investment involved any risk at all 
and she thought her money was going  to be safe.  But as I said before, I dont think this is 
particularly credible in view of the other information  available. 
I previously pointed to the fact that Mrs B said she helped Mr N with his plans for another 
business and she now seems to be saying this was limited to assisting him present the 
relevant information  in an appropriate format. Its very difficult  for me to verify this one way or 
the other.  But even  if thats as far as her assistance went, the fact remains that Mrs B ran 
her own sizeable business, of which she described herself as the Chief Executive Officer. I 
appreciate her business wasnt  involved  in the financial services or hospitality  sectors, but I 
still think she should have  known enough to understand she was investing in a restaurant 
and that there were  associated risks, as there  are when investing in any business,  that 
meant her money wasnt completely safe.
Ref: DRN679763010From this, I think  it follows that Mrs B must  willing to accept some risk to her capital  when 
she invested. The decision  she had to make was whether the potential returns  justified  the 
risks involved. As Ive said before, its relevant  to recognise the expected  benefits  of the 
investment werent  limited  to potential investment returns. Even  if I accept the discounted 
hospitality and entertainment held no interest for Mrs B, I think  it would be difficult to say the 
same of the significant  expected tax incentive.
In reviewing my conclusions, Ive considered what Mrs B has said about her circumstances 
and the additional information  shes provided.  But the fact remains  the amount she invested 
in the restaurant,  particularly  when  the expected tax incentive is taken into account, was 
considerably less than she held in other  investments and was therefore a relatively small 
part of the total capital  available  to her. 
As Ive said before, I understand the investment didnt work out as Mrs B hoped, but I still 
think her background  and experience means its likely she went into the investment  with her 
eyes open and understood  there  were  risks involved. Taking  everything  into account, I think  
those risks were broadly  consistent  with what she was willing to accept in return for the 
potential benefits  on offer and in view of the amount  being invested. Its for this reason that I 
think any advice to make the investment was reasonable based on the information  available 
at the time.
I appreciate my decision is very disappointing for Mrs B and isnt what  she was hoping to 
hear. But I think its fair and reasonable based on the evidence  thats  been  provided.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN679763011Extract from provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Throughout this provisional decision, Ive referred to the rules I must  
follow in assessing all aspects of this complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP) 
rules, published as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  Handbook.
In reaching my provisional decision, and in addition  to that provided recently  and outlined  above,  Ive 
relied on the following  key pieces of evidence:
The appointed representative agreement between Thomson  Brown and Newport FM dated 
January 2013.
A summary of Mrs Bs assets, including her pensions and investments, emailed to her by Mr 
N on 15 May 2014.
Minutes of a meeting  (on paper headed Newport Capital) thats said to have taken place on 
16 May 2014 involving Mr N, Mr P (of Newport Capital) and Mrs B. These appear to have 
been signed by Mrs B and say:
We arranged to meet  to discuss mitigating your tax liability.
I discussed the basis  under  which Newport Capital offer advice and explained  that 
we primarily advise Elective Professional and/or High Net Worth  Individuals  as 
prescribed by the Financial Services Marketing  Act 2000 (FSMA200) who are 
introduced by our professional connections such as other IFAs, accountants, 
solicitors and the like. This put a greater  emphasis  on the individual to ensure  that 
they understand both the advantages and disadvantages of any proposal put to them  
before proceeding.
Following my explanation of the criteria  as a Managing Director you have confirmed 
that you fall under the FSMA2000 category  of "Elective Professional. You qualify as a 
High Net Worth Individual having net assets in excess of £250,000. You also have  
extensive experience of financial instruments. This transaction represents less than 
20% of your overall wealth.
Please confirm receipt of these minutes of meeting, and that you agree that this is an 
accurate reflection of our initial conversation.
A letter dated 22 May 2014 from Mrs B to Mr P at Newport Capital  LLP. This says:
I refer to our recent  conversations, and my wish to engage you for certain services to 
be provided  to me. I understand that you cannot deal with Retail Clients as per your 
present FSA authorisation.
I would like to confirm  to you that I meet all the conditions for being treated  as a 
Professional client as per the rules of the FSA. Specifically I meet  the following  
conditions: (please tick)
I have been working in the field for the last 17 years and have specific and 
very detailed  knowledge of the industry. And so I am quite  capable of taking 
my own investment decisions and I also understand the risks involved in 
such investments.
Ref: DRN679763012I have entered into more  than ten trades per quarter on an average during 
the last four quarters.
The size of my portfolio including cash and bank balances, exceeds  
€500,000.
I have worked in the financial sector for more than one year in a professional 
position, which requires  knowledge of the transactions or services  
envisaged.
I would request you to please categorise me as an Elective Professional Client  for 
our business  relationship.
I note that it is my responsibility to notify you of any changes in my circumstances 
that would affect such categorisation.
The letter appears  to have been completed by somebody else for Mrs B to sign. The copy 
provided doesnt  record  which  of the above options were  selected and isnt signed. 
An email conversation between Mr N (using  his Newport Financial Management email  
address) and Mrs B dated  June  2014. On 5 June, Mr N said:
With ref to the [restaurant]  EIS Investment, we now need the funds in from 
subscribed investors to enable the property to exchange/complete etc. With this in 
mind we have  prepopulated  the application. I believe  all we require  from you is to 
print, sign, scan and email back, plus let us know your tax district/ref number please?
With ref to settling funds, this can either be done via electronic  transfer to the escrow 
Keystone Law Client Account (details on app) or via cheque, whichever you prefer  - 
please let me know your preference?
With regard to the amount  invested, you said £25,000 net, which  with a combination 
of the EIS 30% & the SEIS 50% tax relief this grosses up to approx £40,000, youll 
just need to ask your accountant to either issue a stand-alone claim or pop on next 
tax return  to claim your tax relief back.
Lastly please see attached  updated investment  summary  which now includes the 
restaurant in [XXXX] I mentioned, so the [restaurant] EIS is even greater value with 
higher opportunity. I really think this one is a proper  little gem.
Any questions/queries  please  come  back to me Hun - Oh nearly forgot,  we will have  
to get you signed up as a Newport Capital client  as all the alternative investments go 
via them, [XXXX] will complete the various forms and pop them  out to you under  
separate cover.
Very lastly on the personal  side, ie The Pub [name of pub] I think  I am going to come 
up a little short, but would  love to pinch 5 mins  of your time if we could talk today  
please?
On 8 June  2014, Mrs B replied:
. . . just seen this (I was away Thurs & Fri for a wedding in Nottingham & just 
catching up with e-mails. Shouldve put my out of office on but forgot...).  We can 
speak today or this eve if youre free? Will go through this stuff youve sent me.
On 9 June  2014, Mr N replied:
Ref: DRN679763013Yes please if you could reply when you get a chance, in particular to the [restaurant] 
EIS as we exchanged on this on Friday so quite important  31519
Ref other points, I have some time this afternoon if possible to have a chat on the 
phone? Let me know if convenient for you and when  and Ill call.
A letter dated 9 June 2014 from Mrs B to Mr P at Newport Capital  LLP. This says:
RE: Categorisation as an Elective Professional
Thank you for your letter dated the 29th May 2014 regarding categorisation  as an 
Elective Professional Client, informing me of my client categorisation and the loss of 
regulatory protections to me as a consequence.
I have carefully read and considered the letter  and would  like to be categorised as an 
Elective Professional Client.
I would further like to confirm that:
I am aware that I shall lose all the regulatory protections  that would have 
otherwise been available to me as a Retail Client  and I was given the 
opportunity to request a categorisation which  affords greater protection;
I am not eligible for Investor Protection Scheme; and
I also understand  that I will not have recourse  to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service if I have a complaint.
I realise  and understand the consequences of the above.
The letter appears  to have been completed by somebody else for Mrs B to sign, but the copy 
provided isnt signed. 
Minutes of a meeting  (on paper headed Newport Capital LP) thats said to have taken  place 
on 9 June  2014 involving  Mr N, Mr P and Mrs B. These appear  to have been signed by Mrs B 
and say:
We arranged to meet  to discuss reducing  your tax liability.
We discussed various tax mitigation strategies;  EIS, SEIS, VCT and BPRAs.  I 
explained the key features  of the products mentioned, and you preferred the key 
features of an EIS because  it allowed you to pick your specific investment.
You feel you already  had a large exposure to property therefore did not opt for the 
BPRA route, nor did you want a manager looking after your investment as provided  
by a VCT.
GN provided you details of a range of EIS options; managed EIS service, pub EIS, 
show jumping  EIS, media EIS, wind energy EIS, technology EIS. You selected the 
pub EIS route, specifically [the investment], because of the mix of SEIS and EIS it 
provided gave you a higher  blended tax relief  over the other options.
We completed the paperwork for the application  for [the investment] and you agreed 
to transfer the money to the designated  lawyers  account.
Please confirm receipt of these minutes of meeting, and that you agree that this is an 
accurate reflection of our conversation.
Ref: DRN679763014A Newport Group Capital Management application, which begins:
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Where Newport  Capital LLP (Newport Capital)  treats you as a Professional  Client 
rather than a Retail Client, a number of the Financial  Conduct Authority  (the FCA) 
rules will cease to apply  to us. In particular, where  Newport Capital treats  you as a 
Professional Client:
1.Newport Capital is entitled to assume that you have the necessary level of 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in relation to any 
investment, service, product or transaction;
2.MIFID imposes detailed requirements on financial promotions directed at 
retail clients.  Promotions  directed  at professional clients are simply subject to 
the high level requirement that they are fair, clear and not misleading; and
3.Only retail clients are eligible to refer a complaint  to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service. Generally, only retail clients are entitled to claim 
compensation under  the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The copy provided includes  Mrs Bs details but doesnt appear to be fully completed and isnt 
signed or dated.
Mrs Bs investment  application form, which confirms she wanted to invest £40,000:
. . . . in £1 Ordinary  Shares  in the company
A letter from Mr B of Newport Capital  to Mrs B dated 18 June 2014, which  says:
Dear [Mrs B],
Thank you for your recent application for investment into [the investment].
Certificates
The registrars will be issuing you shortly  with your share certificate
Once the company  has been trading for 4 months or has otherwise met the qualifying 
criteria, the company will apply  for HMRC to request SEIS 3 and EIS 3 forms which 
will be sent to each investor.
An email from Mr N to Mrs B dated 27 June 2014, which says:
`
Please see attached [investment] welcome letter  which  I believe also went out in the 
post to you yesterday, plus a couple  of Newport Capital Minutes of meetings which  
require your signature please.
If you could be kind enough to sign, scan and email back as soon as you can it would 
be appreciated for NCaps compliance file, (any queries please come back  to me).
Lastly if you still have the original [investment] application form,  NCaps admin 
support made a mistake in asking for only a scanned  copy, and have now asked if 
they could have the original - if you still have it would you mind popping in the post 
please Hun?
Ref: DRN679763015An email from Mrs B to Mr N dated 30 June 2014, in which  she said:
BTW just to let you know: [name of colleague] is the MD  my job titles is CEO (I 
amended this on the last lot of paperwork you sent me)  but its not a big deal.
An email from Mr W of Newport Capital to Mr N about Mrs Bs application dated 1 July 2014,  
which says:
Please do not put these on your system  as they are Newport capital minutes  and 
shouldnt be on a Newport financial management system
An email from Mr B of Newport  Capital  to Mr D dated 23 December 2015,  confirming  Mrs B 
bought 40,000 shares for £40,000 on 13 June 2014.
 
Various emails from Mr N with his recollections  of what took place.
If the parties havent  seen any of this information, they can ask our investigator for copies before 
replying to my provisional decision.
jurisdiction
The issue I must address  in deciding whether we can consider the merits of this complaint is whether 
Thomson Brown can be held responsible  for the alleged actions of its AR, Newport FM. As Ive said 
previously, we dont have  jurisdiction to consider all complaints about appointed representatives. Our 
jurisdiction depends on the facts of the case and we have to make findings  on the facts  that are 
material to jurisdiction in order to decide whether  a complaint is one we can look at.
Thomson Brown still appears to dispute that Mrs B is an eligible complainant on the basis that she 
was an elective professional client. And Im conscious the letters dated 22 May and 9 June 2014 
addressed to Mr P, and that appear to have been produced for her to sign, refer to her being treated 
differently to a normal retail  client and the impact this could have on some of the usual  regulatory 
protections, including the right to refer a complaint to us. 
But in my view,  theres significant  doubt  that Mrs B was truly aware  of these  points.  She says she 
hadnt seen the letters before and as the copies provided havent been signed, theres  no conclusive 
evidence to the contrary. Im also conscious  that the letters only served to establish her relationship 
with Newport Capital, not that with Newport FM.
On the subject of elective professional clients, section 3.5.3 of The Conduct of Business  Sourcebook 
(COBS), at the time Mrs Bs investment was arranged, said that:
Elective professional clients
A firm may treat a client as an elective  professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, 
where applicable,  (2):
(1) the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and knowledge  
of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the transactions or 
services envisaged, that the client is capable of making his own investment decisions and 
understanding the risks involved (the "qualitative test");
(2) in relation to MiFID  or equivalent third country business  in the course  of that assessment, 
at least  two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client  has carried  out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant  market at 
an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters;
(b) the size of the clients  financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash 
deposits and financial  instruments, exceeds  EUR 500,000;
Ref: DRN679763016(c) the client  works  or has worked in the financial  sector for at least  one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged;
(the "quantitative test"); and
(3) the following procedure  is followed:
(a) the client  must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as a 
professional client either generally or in respect of a particular service or transaction  
or type of transaction  or product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written  warning  of the protections  and investor 
compensation rights  the client  may lose; and
(c) the client  must state  in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is 
aware of the consequences  of losing  such protections.
As it stands,  I dont think these criteria  have been satisfied for the following reasons:
I appreciate  this is something Newport Capital would be more  likely to hold than Thomson 
Brown, but Ive currently not seen evidence  of an adequate assessment of the expertise, 
experience and knowledge  Mrs B as required in point 1. 
According to the summary of her assets provided, and if her pension was included,  Mrs B had 
a financial instrument  portfolio worth more than EUR 500,000. But COBS required two of the 
three criteria  to be met and Ive seen  nothing to indicate Mrs B was carrying  out transactions  
at the rate specified or that shed worked in the financial sector in a position  that required a 
knowledge of the type of investment she was making. 
The letters Ive already  mentioned dated 22 May 2014 and 9 June 2014 were  presumably an 
attempt to satisfy point  3, but its difficult to confirm  this criteria was met as the copies  
provided arent signed.  
Its still my view that Mrs B bought shares (Ill return to this point later)  and this means  she didnt meet  
the criteria for an elective  professional client outlined  in COBS. As such, I have to consider that she 
was a retail  client as confirmed  in COBS 3.4, which said:
Retail clients
A retail client  is a client who is not a professional client or an eligible counterparty.
Further, I think the rules are clear Mrs B would  be an eligible complainant even if she was correctly  
classified as a professional client. Section  2.7 of DISP sets out the rules in relation to eligible 
complainants and DISP 2.7.9 says:
Exceptions
The following are not eligible complainants:
. . .
(2)(in the Compulsory Jurisdiction) a complainant, other than a trustee  of a pension  
scheme trust,  who was:
(a)  a professional client; or
. . . .
in relation to the firm and activity in question  at the time of the act or omission which is the 
subject of the complaint.
Ref: DRN679763017DISP 2.7.9A goes on to say the above exception doesnt apply to a complainant who is 
a consumer in relation  to the activity  to which the complaint relates . The rules  define a consumer as 
any natural person  acting for purposes outside  his trade, business or profession . 
I appreciate Mrs B says she took money from her business to fund this investment, but she also says 
it was a personal investment and I think the evidence  supports the view she was acting in a personal 
rather than a professional or business capacity. It seems she was in a position where she could 
release money to herself to fund personal  investments and the correspondence  from the time is 
addressed to her (not her business) and refers  to her investment rather  than an investment on behalf  
of her business. As a result,  any exception covering professional clients doesnt apply  and she is an 
eligible complainant.
Now its been established  Mrs B is an eligible complainant, as Ive outlined previously the issue of 
whether Thomson Brown (the principal firm) is responsible for the alleged actions of Newport FM (its 
AR) involves a three stage test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2 - consider whether those acts are regulated  activities or ancillary thereto; 
step 3 - consider whether the principal  firm was responsible for those activities by reason  of 
section 39 of FSMA,  agency or vicarious liability.   
step 1  what  are the specific acts being complained about?
Mrs Bs complaint  is essentially that Mr N (of Newport  FM) gave her unsuitable investment advice that 
resulted in her losing money.
step 2 - are those acts regulated activities or ancillary  thereto? 
Im satisfied the evidence shows Mrs B bought company shares. Companies House website  shows 
that when the company was formed, it had only one shareholder  and that was Mr P. This new 
company wanted to raise  capital from investors in order to trade and there was a capital raising  
exercise by the company  
Capital was raised from the investors and in return the investors subscribed for (or bought)  newly  
issued shares. The fact Mrs B is a shareholder is confirmed by her investment application, which says 
she was investing £40,000  in £1 Ordinary Shares in the company, and by Mr Bs letter of 18 June 
2014 explaining that the registrars would shortly be issuing her with a share  certificate.  Its also on 
Companies House website that Mrs B has 40,000 shares in the company.
Thomson Brown has pointed to correspondence referring to a further raise but I dont this 
contradicts what Ive said above. Instead, I think this refers to further fund raising through the issuing 
and sale of more shares to investors  to raise  further capital.
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). Shares in companies  are specified  as investments (article 76). 
Advising on the merits of buying or selling  these  investments is a specified activity  (article 53). So is 
arranging deals in investments (article  25), and agreeing to advise on investments or arrange  deals in 
investments (article 64). 
So, providing  these activities were carried out by way of business (an issue I will return  to), Im 
satisfied that by either arranging Mrs Bs investment and/or advising  her on it, Mr N would have been 
involved in regulated  activity.
I think  the evidence indicates Mr Ns role went further than simply introducing  Mrs B to Newport  
Capital. According  to the meeting minutes provided, he was present  during the alleged meetings 
between Mr P and Mrs B, which wouldnt  have been necessary if hed simply made an introduction. 
Further, I think his email  exchanges with Mrs B provide  clear  evidence Mr N was involved in arranging  
Ref: DRN679763018her investment. In particular, his email of 5 June  2014  talks about  how the money being  invested 
would be paid and even referred to having pre-populated  the application. And according to Thomson 
Browns recent submissions, Mr N had his secretary complete paperwork for Newport  Capital  due to 
its lack of administration.
While Thomson Brown has emphasised its view that this was given by Newport Capital, it does seem 
to accept that advice was given. The fact Mr N was recorded as being present at the alleged meetings  
with Mr P and Mrs B, where that advice  was presumably given, means  its difficult to conclude  he 
didnt have a hand in that process. In any event, I still believe Mr Ns email of 5 June 2014 also shows 
he advised on the investment. 
The regulated activity  of advising on investments is defined in article 53 of the RAO  as follows:
Advising a person  is a specified kind of activity if the advice is -
a)given to the person in his capacity  as an investor or potential investor,  or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
b)advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent) -
(i)buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which  is a 
security or a contractually based investment, or
(ii)exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Mrs B was an investor or potential  investor in line with the first part of the definition.  And I think  his 
comment that the [restaurant] EIS is even greater value with higher opportunity. I really think this one 
is a proper  little gem can only be viewed as advice on the merits  of the investment. I note Thomson 
Browns comments, but theres  nothing in the definition of advice that requires a discussion of the 
pros and cons of a course of action. In the right context, Im satisfied that Mr Ns comments  
adequately meet the definition of advice. 
I appreciate theres  no documentary record of formal advice,  for example a suitability  letter, but the 
fact Mr N didnt complete  a suitability letter doesnt mean he didnt give Mrs B advice. And while he 
completed a fact find and suitability letter for the transfer of Mrs Bs pension arrangements to a self-
invested personal  pension (SIPP) a number of years earlier, Ive concluded in another complaint that 
Mr N also advised her on the investments made within the SIPP and he didnt complete  a suitability  
letter for that either. So giving advice without appropriate paperwork  wasnt something Mr N hadnt 
done before or that should have seemed new or unusual to Mrs B.
Taking everything into account, including the points recently raised by Thomson Brown, it remains my 
view that Mr N carried out the regulated activities of arranging and advising on investments. These 
activities fall within our jurisdiction as set out at DISP 2.3.1R.
 
Thomson Brown is correct  to point out that section 22 of FSMA states:
An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a specified 
kind which is carried on by way of business and
(a)relates to an investment  of a specified kind
In other words, Mr Ns role in advising on and arranging  Mrs Bs investment would  only class  as a 
regulated activity if it was carried on by way of business and Ive considered this point carefully.
Section 8.5 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) set out what  constituted  in the 
course of business in respect of promoting investment in some detail. At the time Mrs B 
invested, it said: 
The FCA considers that in the course of business requires a commercial  interest on the part 
of the communicator. This does not necessarily have to be a direct interest. And the 
Ref: DRN679763019communicator does  not need to be carrying on regulated activities  (the test in section 19 of 
the Act) as or as part of his business. Neither  does the communication need to be made  in 
the course of carrying  on activities as a business in their own right. . . . .
The position  is slightly more blurred  with individuals. The in the course of business test is 
intended to exclude genuine  non-business communications. Examples of these would  be 
friends talking  in a pub, letters between family  members or e-mails sent by individuals using 
an Internet chat-room  or bulletin board  for personal reasons.
So this means that the nature of the relationship between Mr N and Mrs B is potentially important. If 
they were close friends or potential business partners as has been suggested, it might be reasonable 
to view the 5 June  2014  email simply  as a conversation between friends  that, while it otherwise met 
the definition of advice,  wasnt carried out by way of business  and therefore didnt  amount to a 
regulated activity. 
From what Ive seen, most  notably the tone and content  of their emails, I think its clear Mrs B and Mr 
N had a friendly relationship  that involved meeting up socially on occasions. And thats not entirely 
surprising as hed been advising her for a number of years. Mr N has said their relationship went 
further and they were actually potential  business  partners, but the evidence on this point is 
contradictory. Thomson Brown has said more than once that it can provide evidence, including 
witness statements, from other individuals and we have invited it to provide this. But that evidence 
hasnt been forthcoming to date, so Im assessing the complaint on the information I have.
Mrs B says she wasnt involved in the pub investment Mr N was considering in 2014 and hes not 
provided any evidence to show otherwise. He certainly referred to it in his email of 5 June 2014 but I 
dont think his comments  are evidence Mrs B was also involved. He could just as easily  have been 
discussing his own personal plans.
Theres also been reference  to later events, although these occurred after the 2014 investment and it 
shouldnt be assumed the nature of Mr N and Mrs Bs relationship remained the same throughout. 
Either way, I find Mrs Bs explanation  of what happened  regarding a proposed  pub investment  in 2015 
(that she was invited to invest and declined)  to be plausible and I dont think Mr N has provided any 
evidence that casts  doubt  on this.
On balance, it remains  my view that Mrs B and Mr N had a relationship  that, while friendly, was 
essentially that of financial  adviser and client. Mr N used his business email address  when advising 
on and arranging Mrs Bs investment into the restaurant and I think  he was acting in his capacity as 
her financial adviser, and therefore by way of business. That means Im satisfied these were  
regulated activities.
Beyond introducing  Mrs B to Mr P, Thomson Brown seems to be saying Mr N wasnt acting in his 
capacity as its representative for any subsequent involvement in her investment. I havent been able 
to consider the role of Newport Capital in detail  here as its a separate entity and no complaint has 
been made against it at this stage.  The evidence Ive seen certainly suggests it may also have had a 
role in advising on and arranging  the investment.  And I accept  its possible Mr N was (whether he 
should have been or not) effectively representing Newport Capital (not Newport  FM) for some of the 
time he was involved. But on balance, I think theres enough evidence  to say he was acting for 
Newport FM (and therefore Thomson Brown) for at least  some  of the time the regulated activities Ive 
described were being carried out. 
As Ive said before, I think its important that Mr N used his Newport  FM email address for 
correspondence, including the crucial email  dated 5 June 2014 where advice  was given. Thomson  
Brown has also referred to Newport Capitals lack of administration, meaning Mr N had to get his 
secretary to complete paperwork on its behalf. My interpretation of this is that it accepts some of the 
activities involved in arranging  Mrs Bs investment werent carried out by Newport Capital (due to a 
lack of administrative capacity)  and were instead carried  out by Mr Ns secretary. I think  this implies  
Ref: DRN679763020Mr Ns secretary didnt  also work for Newport  Capital and Im unclear who else he/she would have 
been working  for when carrying  out these  administrative tasks if it wasnt Newport FM.  
step 3 - is the principal firm was responsible  for those  activities by reason of section 39 of FSMA,  
agency or vicarious liability?
DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility). 
So a principal  is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to the 
business it has accepted responsibility  for.
On the subject of ARs, at the relevant time, section 39 of FSMA said:
(1)If a person (other than an authorised  person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which -
(i)permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii)complies  with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility. (my emphasis)
So under section 39, the principal is required to accept  responsibly  for that business, which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description. However the recent case  of Anderson v 
Sense Network (2018) makes it clear the words part of in section 39 allow  a principal firm to accept  
responsibility for only part of the generic business of a prescribed description. In other words, 
Thomson Brown was entitled to appoint Newport FM as an AR and limit the scope of the regulated 
activities it could carry out and that it would be responsible for.
Further clarification on this point was provided by the appeal judgement in the Anderson v Sense 
case, which  set out that only restrictions on what  generic business could  be conducted would  limit 
the principals  responsibility. In contrast,  restrictions on how that business is to be conducted dont 
limit a principals  responsibility.  In other words, a principal cant  avoid responsibility  for activities it 
authorised an appointed representative to carry out just because  those activities werent carried out in 
the way it wanted them to be. 
In terms of this complaint  against Thomson  Brown,  the above  means I can consider it if the acts being 
complained about include business for which it accepted responsibility.
The AR agreement set out the terms of the arrangement between Newport FM and Thomson Brown. 
Section 2 entitled Appointment and Authority says:
Ref: DRN6797630212. Appointment  and Authority
TBFML [Thomson Brown] appoints the Representative [Newport FM] as its Appointed 
Representative to provide the Services with effect  from the Effective Date  and the 
Representative accepts such appointment to provide the Services,  upon and subject to the 
terms and conditions  of this Agreement.
The term services  was defined as:
any or all of the services  which the Representative is permitted to perform by TBFML in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement as more  particularly described  in 
the permission page of TBFMLs entry  in the FSA Register for TBFML  (currently 
http://www.fsa.gov.ukregister,firmPermissions.do?sid= 194025) save that the 
Representative shall not carry on corporate finance activities  unless specifically approved  in 
writing by TBFML.
My interpretation of this is that Newport  FM was authorised to carry out all regulated  activities 
Thomson Brown was itself authorised for. The only exception to this covered corporate finance 
activities.
The register  records  Thomson Brown was authorised to advise  on and arrange investments,  including 
shares, for retail customers and I believe these  are the activities  Mr N carried  out for the reasons 
explained.
In reaching my conclusions, I have been mindful of sections 5.6 and 5.7 of the appointed 
representative agreement, which say:
5.6 The Representative  shall only give advice on Investments approved by TBFML. In that 
context where the Representative  wishes to give advice on an Investment, it will provide full 
details in writing including all Information Memoranda, Prospectuses, models  and any other 
sales and promotional materials to TBFML for assessment. TBFML  will undertake its 
assessment and give its decision in writing within  ten business days of the delivery  of all such 
information by the Representative.
5.7 For the avoidance  of doubt, and without limitation, Compliance Requirements may, if 
TBFML considers  it necessary  or appropriate,  contain restrictions on;
5.7.1 the Investments in relation to which advice given by the Representative  in the 
performance of the Services may be given; and/or
5.7.2 the representation of other counterparties by the Representative, it being  
acknowledged that for the purpose  of this clause, the Representative will be treated 
as representing other parties in the circumstances set out in the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives) Regulations 2001.
In my view,  this amounts to a requirement  for pre-approval of business involving  specialist 
investments. Ive no doubt such approval  wasnt sought in this case. But the business  Thomson 
Brown was accepting responsibility for (the what) was arranging and advising on investments. Any 
restriction requiring pre-approval for certain investments was a restriction on how that business 
should be done. I dont  accept Thomson Browns view that this conclusion is fundamentally  flawed. 
Instead, I think its confirmed by the comments of the judge in the original Anderson  v Sense case, 
when he said:
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
Ref: DRN679763022because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered  [my 
emphasis], does not mean that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the 
relevant "business"  for which  responsibility is taken.
I think  the pre-approval  process  described  in the Thomson  Browns appointed representative 
agreement falls into the category of certain other duties described above. The judge  was clear  that 
the fact such  duties may not have been  completed isnt sufficient for a principal to avoid responsibility 
for business it had otherwise accepted responsibility  for. 
Thomson Brown seems to be saying it only authorised  Newport FM to carry  out business  using its 
agencies. But Ive not found anything  in the AR agreement to confirm  this and I think this means  its 
also a restriction it cant rely on to avoid  responsibility  in this case.
conclusions on jurisdiction
Im satisfied Mr N was involved in advising on and arranging investments involving company  shares 
and that these  were  regulated activities carried  on by way of business. I further believe these were 
activities Newport FM was authorised by Thomson Brown to carry  out and that Mr N was representing 
Newport FM at the time. It may be that Mr N didnt follow all the requirements, including that for pre-
approval, but this was a restriction on how the business Thomson  Brown accepted responsibility for 
was carried out and Isnt sufficient for it to avoid being  held responsible  for his actions.
On balance, and taking everything into account, it remains my view that Mrs Bs complaint falls within 
our jurisdiction and is one I can consider.
merits
When advising Mrs B on her investment, Mr N had a responsibility to make sure any recommendation 
made was suitable for her circumstances and needs. The restaurant investment offered the potential  
for high returns.  But it also presented a significant risk that she could lose a lot of money, possibly 
everything she invested. 
In making her complaint,  Mrs B has said she was inexperienced and didnt understand the investment 
or the risks involved. In a recent email, she said:
I didnt actually  realise that I had taken  any risks.  I thought my money was safely  invested and 
that it would grow.
Ive carefully noted what Mrs B has said. But I dont think the available  information  supports the view 
that she didnt understand what she was getting  into or that she was unaware there were risks 
involved.
Mrs B ran her own business  (she described herself to Mr N as the Chief Executive Officer)  and has 
told us she was drawing  down around £20,000 per month. While I recognise  her business  wasnt 
involved with financial  services, I note that in a recent email Mrs B told us:
My involvement in Mr Ns plans to buy a pub was that I helped him with his business  plans, 
because this is something that I understand how to do
I dont doubt Mrs B would have taken note of any advice and positive endorsement  from Mr N, but I 
dont think the relationship  between adviser  and client in this case  was entirely unequal. I think her 
experience with running a business and business plans meant Mrs B should have known enough to 
understand she was investing in a start-up restaurant,  and that many start-up businesses end up 
failing. If she didnt understand these points, presumably she wouldnt have been in a position to help 
Mr N with his own business plans. In the circumstances, I think its highly unlikely  Mrs B would  have 
invested in the restaurant  venture without seeking to understand what was involved  and, if shed done 
Ref: DRN679763023that, I find it inconceivable that she wouldnt  have known  what  she was getting into and that there 
were risks involved.
Ultimately, Mrs B had to make a decision about whether she was willing  to accept  the risks of 
investing in the new restaurant in exchange for the potential  returns. In this case, those  returns 
werent just potential growth on her capital  investment.  She was also expecting to receive a significant 
tax incentive and it appears  the investment came with other benefits,  including discounted hospitality 
and entertainment.
I fully understand  Mrs B is unhappy with how things turned out, but I do think  her background  and 
experience means  its likely  she went into the investment with her eyes open and understood the risks 
she was taking. I think it follows that by proceeding with the investment,  she was willing to accept 
those risks in return for the potential benefits available.
Mrs B had other high-risk  investments and I dont  dispute  these were  all recommended by Mr N. I 
think its important to stress that this hasnt influenced my view on this complaint and Im aware  Ive 
said in a decision on another complaint that I think some of those investments were unsuitable  for her. 
But the circumstances of that complaint  were very different, not least because it involved a much 
larger sum of money and concerned the transfer of pension investments shed accrued  over a period 
of time.
In this case, given what I think Mrs B should have understood about what she was getting into and the 
fact she was investing  a much smaller  part of the capital available to her, I think any advice to invest 
in the restaurant was reasonable  based  on the information available at the time. Its for these  reasons 
that Im not proposing to uphold the complaint.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  for Mrs B and isnt what  she was hoping to 
her. But I think it is a fair and reasonable conclusion  based on the evidence thats been provided.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN6797630