K822xcomplaint
Mr M complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc about  the poor quality of repairs  to his car 
following an accident  claim under his motor  insurance policy.
background 
Mr M was involved in a car accident and claimed  on his policy  with AXA. AXA accepted  the 
claim and the car went to a garage where repairs were made. When the car was returned  to 
Mr M, he said the repairs had been done badly with the wrong parts  fitted and bodywork 
damage. He said this is preventing him from selling the car.
Mr M asked  the garage and AXA to sort the problem out, but he said they havent done  
anything to rectify the poor repairs and had failed to provide a reasonable courtesy car. Mr M 
said the repairer has told him it wants nothing else to do with him or his car.
Mr M complained to AXA that his car had paint protection  which cost him £350. He said the 
garage has damaged  this and lost the certificate  so the cover  has been  invalidated.  He said 
the issuer isnt able to send him a new certificate.  Mr M said he wants  £500  to cover this and 
wants the car to be properly repaired.  
Mr M said AXA asked him to get quotes for the repairs, but he wanted AXA to fix his car 
themselves as other garages dont want to fix another  garages work. Mr M said AXA offered  
him £200 for his inconvenience  but he's unhappy  with this.
AXA apologised that the repairs to Mr Ms car werent carried out to an acceptable standard.  
And for problems with the courtesy  car. AXA said that it hadnt responded to emails in a 
timely manner and paid Mr M £200  compensation. AXAs repairer also offered Mr M £200 to 
get the repairs done himself.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld in part. He said AXA acknowledged 
that the repairs werent done correctly, but the parties hadnt provided quotes for what  this 
would cost to put right.  He said AXAs policy allowed use of substitute parts and it doesnt  
need to replace these. He said there have been  two independent reports  about the repairs 
and these found problems with some  of the repairs  and a part that should be replaced. One 
of the reports said the repairs  would cost £203.22  and the investigator said that AXA should 
pay this to Mr M so he could arrange  the repairs with a repairer  of his choice. 
The investigator said the garage  hadnt  applied the paint  Mr M said hed specified  and hadnt 
returned his certificate.  The repairer  said it had no record of Mr M saying this was required.  
AXA said the certificate issuer had told them  it would be invalid after the repairs and said 
how this could be re-issued. He said AXA should arrange with Mr M to get the paint supplier 
to paint the repaired area and issue a replacement certificate. The investigator said the total 
of £320 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M was reasonable. 
AXA agreed but Mr M said the compensation should  be £400. AXA eventually agreed to pay 
the additional £80. At this point confusion set in as Mr M appears to have thought the £400 
would be a new payment, whereas AXA and the investigator took the £400  to be the £320 
already paid by AXA and the repairer, with a further  £80 to be paid by AXA.
Mr M was dissatisfied with the settlement  offered and requested an ombudsman  review his 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN69619412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M complains that repairs to his car werent carried  out properly by AXAs  repairer. Where 
a repair  is carried out under  an insurance policy and this is not completed to a reasonable 
standard we'd expect the insurance company to take steps to assess the repair  and if it was 
found to be sub-standard to arrange  for this to be fixed to a reasonable standard. 
I can see that two independent inspection  companies have looked  at Mr Ms vehicle and 
concluded that a particular part is incorrect, and a repair is unsatisfactory. This means there 
is repair work that needs to be rectified.  The reports indicate that the rest of the repairs were 
done to a commercially acceptable standard.
From what  Ive seen AXA acted in accordance with the terms of Mr Ms motor insurance 
policy in its arrangements for a courtesy  car during repairs  to his car.
I can see that Mr M has been put to considerable trouble in ensuring  that his car gets the 
repairs and parts that it needs. I can understand the frustration this has caused him, but I 
think that the compensation offered by AXA is enough to cover this. 
Its unfortunate theres been a misunderstanding  about the compensation offered to Mr M. 
Mr M said he wanted an additional £200  compensation and said that was what  the 
investigator had put forward.  From  what Ive seen, I think the investigator was clear about 
the compensation in his letter and calls to Mr M. The investigator  had gained AXAs  
agreement on the basis of the settlement he put forward and I think that the redress was fair 
in the circumstances.
So overall, I think the total of £400 offered to Mr M as compensation by AXA and the repairer  
is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused. I also think AXA should pay Mr M 
£203.22 for the outstanding repairs. I also think they should arrange  for the specified paint to 
be reapplied to the repaired  area of Mr Ms car and arrange for a replacement paint 
certificate to be provided to Mr M.
Mr M should be aware that if wants to reject this decision other options, including  legal action  
remain open to him in the pursuit of his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr M:
£400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused 
him, less any payment  of compensation already paid (and cashed) by him.
£203.22 for the cost of the required repairs on his vehicle to correct the incorrect 
repair being carried out.
Arrange for the specialist paint company to apply the product to the repaired area of 
the vehicle and supply Mr M with a replacement certificate. 
Ref: DRN69619413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6961941