K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED trading as WageDayAdvance 
(WDA) gave him loans that were  unaffordable.
background
Between 2015 and 2017 Mr W borrowed nine loans from WDA, as follows:
Loan No Amount Date  lent Date repaid
1 £150 7.12.15 11.1.16
2 £120 28.3.16 11.5.16
3 £90 19.5.16 13.6.16
4 £100 29.6.16 15.8.16
5 £200 18.8.16 12.9.16
6 £230 12.9.16 11.10.16
7 £200 14.10.16 13.3.17
8 £300 20.3.17 20.6.17
9 £520 22.6.17 Outstanding
Loans 1-6 inclusive were  payday loans, each with a single  repayment, and loans 7-9 
inclusive were instalment  loans. Each  of the loans has been  repaid, with the exception of 
loan 9 which has an outstanding balance remaining.
Mr W complains that the loans were unaffordable  to him and that his financial history at the 
time showed that he was not creditworthy.  He suggests that WDA didnt carry out 
appropriate affordability checks.
WDA contends that it did undertake adequate checks and was satisfied that the loans  were  
affordable. However,  having re-considered its files following Mr Ws complaint, it has 
acknowledged that its checks for loan four were not sufficient and so its offered 
compensation in that regard. Mr W hasnt accepted this.
Our adjudicator felt that WDAs checks for loans one to three  inclusive were appropriate, but 
that those carried  out in relation to loans four to nine inclusive didnt go far enough. 
However, she didnt  consider that shed been provided with enough  information  by Mr W to 
be able to properly  assess whether  better checks by the lender mightve  resulted in it making 
any different lending decisions.  Because  of this she didnt feel able to recommend that the 
complaint be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with our adjudicators finding and indicated an intention to provide 
additional supporting evidence. Unfortunately that hasnt been forthcoming.
Because both parties dont agree the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Ref: DRN67993932WDA was required  to lend responsibly.  It needed  to make checks  to see whether Mr W 
could afford  to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr W was borrowing and his lending history, but 
there was no set list of checks that WDA had to do.
WDA has shown us that, before each loan,  it asked Mr W for details of his income and 
expenditure. It also carried out checks with credit reference agencies  (although  I havent 
seen the results of these).
loans one to three
For each of these  loans Mr W declared  his monthly  income to be £1,250 and his expenses 
to be £700. This suggested he had disposable  income of £550  per month from which  to 
repay WDAs loans.
I think that, given the level of disposable  income  that Mr W had declared and that this was 
the beginning of the relationship between him and WDA, the lender  was entitled to rely upon 
the information that itd been  given. I think  the checks WDA undertook  were  proportionate in 
the circumstances and I wouldnt have expected it to carry out any more comprehensive 
checks at this stage. 
As I think  these loans wouldve appeared affordable, I dont think  WDA was wrong  to provide 
them. 
loan four
I havent considered  this loan as WDA has already acknowledged its checks didnt go far 
enough.
loans five to nine
For these loans Mr W declared his net monthly income to be £1,570  and reported his 
expenditure as being between £755  and £850  per month.  Whilst these loans may have 
appeared affordable against the levels of disposable  income implied by Mr Ws applications I 
think that, by this time, WDA shouldve been  asking more questions of him. 
By the time of loan five, Mr W had been borrowing from WDA almost constantly  across a 
period of five months. And the amounts borrowed were beginning to increase. I think  that, 
against this background, WDA shouldve been considering if Mr W was using these short 
term loans in the manner for which they were  intended, i.e., to provide assistance  in covering 
short term cash flow issues. I think it ought  to have questioned whether he was becoming 
dependent upon short term borrowing.
In these circumstances I think that WDA  shouldve sought to get a comprehensive 
understanding of Mr Ws financial situation.  There are a number of ways in which  it couldve 
done this, including asking for copies of his payslips  or bills, or for sight  of his bank 
statements. I cant see that it did this and so I dont think  that its checks  went  far enough.
Having concluded  that WDAs  checks  werent  proportionate for loans five to nine, its then 
necessary for me to assess  whether or not carrying out better  checks  would most likely have 
shown it that its proposed  lending wasnt affordable. 
Ref: DRN67993933To do this I need evidence of Mr Ws financial circumstances  at the time  perhaps via the 
information detailed  above such as payslips,  bills, bank statements, or credit reports. 
Unfortunately, despite having asked for such information on a number of occasions, and 
agreeing to various extensions of time deadlines  to provide the information, I regret that we 
havent been given anything that would enable a reasonable assessment of Mr Ws finances. 
In summary:
I think that WDAs checks for loans one to three were proportionate and so I wont  be 
asking it to do anything more in regard to them;
WDA  has already agreed  to uphold Mr Ws complaint in relation to loan four and so it 
should reiterate  its offer of settlement to Mr W;
whilst  I dont believe that WDAs  checks went far enough for loans five to nine, Im 
unable to conclude  whether or not it wouldve seen the loans as unaffordable if itd 
carried out the better checks that I consider proportionate.
Im sure itll be a disappointment to Mr W but, in all of these circumstances, Im not able to 
uphold his complaint.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6799393