K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2008 when Mrs R took out a credit card by post with Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC 
(Tesco). Mrs R says Tesco  mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Tesco made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. She was given the option  to either select PPI or not in a separate section to 
the credit on the credit agreement. I can see that she selected to take PPI by marking 
X in a box next to the words  I wish to purchase Tesco Payment Protection Insurance 
but left the other protections on offer clear. If she didnt want PPI she couldve left the 
box clear. She then went on to sign confirming  her choice.  So I think  she wouldve 
understood she didnt have to take the PPI - although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
 Tesco didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs R as it was sold by post with no staff 
involvement, so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right for her. But even if it was 
recommended - based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time - I think that 
the policy was suitable. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and Mrs R has told us she had no other  means in place to 
make her credit  card payments if she was unable to work.  
 Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R or refund
any interest and charges  applied to her credit  card that may have been incurred because of
those premiums.
Ref: DRN69722372But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because:
When the policy was sold,  Tesco expected  to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about 
that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs R, that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what Tesco needs to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit share it got that was more
than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mrs R any extra interest
she paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs R the difference  between 
what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mrs R 8%* simple
interest if Mrs R paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs R any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept
or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6972237