K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited rejected a claim under their home 
insurance policy for storm damage.
background
Mr and Mrs M say that in October 2017  they noticed  the porcelain tiles on their living  room 
floor had lifted. The tiles are in front of large sliding windows. They removed  one tile and 
found the wooden parquet  flooring underneath was swollen.
They contacted their current insurer. It sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage.  The loss 
adjuster said the exposed  area of parquet flooring was totally dry and couldnt  say what had 
caused it to swell. The insurer said the damage  had happened  before the cover  with it had 
started. So Mr and Mrs M referred their claim to their previous insurer, esure.
esure also sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. It said according to Mr and Mrs M the 
estimated date of the damage  was October  2016  but there were no storm conditions in their 
area around  that date. It thought water had got in because of inadequate/failed sealant  
around their sliding windows. It said that wasnt covered by their policy.
Mr and Mrs M told esure theyd got the date of the storm wrong and it was in fact 
22/23 February 2017. esure said it would rely on the date first notified  but in any event it 
thought the loss had been  caused by the sealant  rather than anything covered by their 
policy.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to this service. Our investigator didnt think it was 
unreasonable of esure to say that the damage had been caused by the sealant.
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed  for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm  conditions the main  cause of the problem?
If the answer  to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Mr and Mrs M say they werent sure originally about the date of the damage but having 
checked with friends  locally whose property  had been damaged  in the same storm, theyd 
been able to confirm the date. Im prepared  to give Mr and Mrs M the benefit  of the doubt on 
this.
Regarding the second question,  the sort of damage most commonly  caused  by a storm is 
usually to a roof or chimney but in my opinion its possible that storms can cause water to 
Ref: DRN61640462get into a property via other routes.  I note Mr and Mrs M say they noticed water  on the floor 
of another room  with similar sliding doors after a storm.
What I have to decide is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage to Mr and 
Mrs Ms flooring. In deciding this, I usually rely on expert evidence. esures loss adjuster  
noted that the outside patio was almost level with the floor inside  and so it would be 
relatively easy for water from outside to find its way in around the seals especially if they 
werent in perfect  condition or were  missing under the doorsill. He also noted  that the patio 
appeared as though it might breach the damp  proof course allowing water  to enter the cavity  
void and from there  it could have spread under the parquet floor causing it to swell.
I acknowledge that esure  hasnt  definitively  proved that there were problems with the 
sealant. However, it doesnt have to do so. esure only has to show that on the balance of 
probabilities (in other words it is 51% likely) there was an existing problem and/or that storm 
wasnt the main cause of the damage. I think the evidence from the loss adjusters report  
indicates that a storm may have highlighted pre-existing damage to the sliding doors, rather 
than having been the dominant cause of the damage. Overall, Im not persuaded it has been 
sufficiently shown that the damage  to the flooring was caused by a peril covered by 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy as opposed to the sealant. So I think  esures decision to decline their 
claim was fair and reasonable. 
Mr M said the loss adjuster only conducted  a cursory examination of the window frame and 
no tools or instruments were used. As a surveyor himself he thinks esure  failed to investigate 
the problem thoroughly. But the onus is on the policyholder to show that their claim is 
covered by the policy. I dont think Mr and Mrs M had done that in this case.  So esure wasnt 
under any obligation to investigate more thoroughly once it had established that the claim 
wasnt covered by the policy.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6164046