K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Ms D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms D says it wasnt made clear  that the policy was optional.  Halifax  has given  me a copy  
of the signed credit  agreement from the time of the sale. In this there was a separate  
section for additional products. An X has been  printed onto the page next to PPI, 
indicating that Ms D wanted to buy it. I can see the box next to card  protection has been 
left blank, so I think Ms D was aware she could pick and choose what products  she 
wanted.
Ive considered the fact that the X was printed onto the page. I can see Ms Ds personal 
information such as her address and employment  details  have also been printed onto the 
application form. So I think the form was completed following a conversation  about      
Ms Ds personal circumstances. Considering everything, I think  Halifax  made it clear that  
Ms D didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose  to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms D so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. 
Ms D wouldve  received six months  at full pay followed by six months at half pay if she 
was sick. But the policy couldve covered  her for up to twelve months if she had an 
accident or was too ill to work; and for up to ten months  if she was made redundant. As 
she received half pay for a period  of time and the policy provided additional cover to her 
sick pay, I think she couldve found it useful. 
I appreciate Ms Ds husband wouldve wanted  to help her if she couldnt meet  her 
repayments. But support from others cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances 
can also change.  And ultimately it was up to Ms D to maintain  her repayments. It also 
looks like the policy was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN64931892This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms D paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms D back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms D.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6493189