K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc unfairly terminated  his finance 
agreement and recorded a default on his credit file. He wants  the agreement  reinstated, his 
credit file to be amended  and compensation.
background
Mr M tells us that in 2015 he took out a conditional  sale agreement  with Santander for a five 
year period.  He says that Santander  failed to collect direct debits for two months payments 
in September  and October 2018.  Since  then he says its terminated the agreement  and 
defaulted his account without giving  him any proper notice or explanation.
Santander told us that it accepted that errors  had been made and that two direct debit 
werent collected. It said it had offered to waive £600.96 to reflect these mistakes. But it says 
that Mr M was already  in arrears and that hes subsequently failed to make any payments 
since 1 November 2018. It explained that it had tried to contact Mr M on multiple occasions 
but that hed not responded. And that due to the outstanding arrears it had terminated the 
agreement and defaulted the account in March 2019.
Two of our investigators have issued views in this case. Both thought the complaint should 
be upheld but only to the extent that one late payment  charge of £35 should be deducted 
from Mr Ms account.  
Santander accepted the view of our investigators. Mr M didnt and he said that his complaint 
had not been understood.  As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr M has experienced financial difficulties. And I accept it was doubly  
unfortunate that Santander made errors  which would also have led to some confusion.
Ive seen a timeline  which  our first investigator set out in his view of 26 November 2019. I 
dont intend to repeat it here as both parties have seen it. But in summary it explained the 
circumstances which had led to Mr M cancelling his direct debit. And the difficulties he had 
then experienced  in trying to set up a new mandate.
At the time Mr M cancelled the direct debit the account was already in arrears. Ive seen the 
account statement  from the commencement  of the agreement and this reveals intermittent 
arrears with subsequent  payment arrangements. And whilst Mr M didnt always keep to 
these arrangements broadly speaking he kept the arrears at less than three months  
payments. The account  statement shows arrears of £175.32 at the start of August 2018.
Ref: DRN68395212In August  2018  he cancelled his direct debit  and tried to set up a new arrangement.  But the 
August payment wasnt collected. In September  Mr M contacted Santander about the failure  
to collect the direct  debit  and he paid the overdue August monthly instalment. Unfortunately, 
due to an error by Santander the September payment  also wasnt collected.  Contact notes  
record that Mr M was asked to complete an income  and expenditure form in order to assess 
how the arrears might  be paid. But he declined the request.
A contact note from 8 October 2018 indicated that Mr M told Santander about some  family 
circumstances that meant he wouldnt be able to pay arrears. And the October 2018 direct 
debit payment wasnt collected. This resulted in a default notice being issued.
On 1 November  2018 Mr M contacted Santander  and paid £265.96.  And during this call the 
contact notes record that he was advised that a default notice  had been  issued.
In January 2019 Mr M raised a complaint  with Santander and it issued a final response letter 
(FRL) on 31 January. This offered to write off £600.96 due to the wrong advice  Mr M had 
received about  the two uncollected direct debits in September and October 2018. 
Additionally, Santander said that once the arrears  had been  cleared it might look to clear 
other fees of £120. The letter contained an offer for Mr M to restart payments by means  of 
either a direct debit  or a standing  order.  It also said that it might  be possible to reach  a 
payment arrangement in respect of the arrears.  Following the FRL Mr M told Santander he 
would be complaining to this service.
As Mr M didnt think all the issues hed raised had been sufficiently addressed Ill try and 
cover the specific items mentioned by him.
Ive seen information from Santander  about  correspondence sent during the default  and 
termination process. As well as the numerous  attempts  made  at phone contact with Mr M 
prior to the agreement  being terminated. So Im satisfied he had ample opportunity  in which  
to deal with the matter.  Mr M knew that payment instalments werent  being  made.  So he 
ought reasonably  to have known that Santander  would seek to enforce the agreement.
Santander admitted  that errors  had been made. And it made an offer (since fulfilled) to credit  
the account with a payment of £600.96. The failure to collect  the direct debits didnt cause 
financial loss to Mr M (save for the fees which have now been cancelled).  He was 
contractually obliged  to make monthly payments. But it did cause inconvenience. Whilst the 
credit might not amount to the same sum as the two missed direct debit payments I thought 
it was a generous  offer.  It was considerably  more  than I wouldve awarded for these  errors  if 
it hadnt already  been applied to the account.  Santander also offered to consider clearing 
other charges if Mr M paid the arrears.  As he hasnt  done so I see no reason why Santander 
shouldnt maintain those charges.
Mr M didnt  make payments  after 1 November 2018 so I dont think Santander  did anything 
wrong in terminating  the account  and recording  a default. Wed expect a default to be issued 
when there  are between  three and six months  arrears. This is done to protect  the consumer 
from the risk of ever increasing charges and fees arising from not meeting payments on 
time. And Santander  is entitled to report details  of account conduct  to credit reference  
agencies. I shant be asking it to remove any of the information reported.
Ref: DRN68395213I see no reason why Santander should  reactivate the account  in order to collect  the 
payments to which it is contractually entitled.  Im not sure what has become of the vehicle  
but if Mr M has paid one third of the total cost of the agreement the vehicle couldnt be 
repossessed without his consent unless a court order was obtained.
I recognise Mr M experienced  some inconvenience  as a result of the errors  regarding the 
direct debit. But Im not of the opinion that this had any significant  bearing on whats 
subsequently happened. Mr M knew of the requirement to maintain monthly payments. He 
was offered the chance to recommence either direct debits or set up a standing  order. He 
has neither made payments nor sought to reach a payment  arrangement.  Ive already  said 
the credit  applied to the account by Santander was generous. I shant be asking it to do 
anything else.
I concur with our investigators  views  that Santander  should  deduct the fee in respect  of the 
October unpaid direct  debit. Its to that limited  extent that I uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  but only to the 
extent Ive indicated.
I require Santander  (UK) Plc to deduct  the £35 late payment  fee charged for the failed direct  
debit in October 2018 from any outstanding  balance on this account. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6839521