K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Evergreen Finance London  Limited trading as Moneyboat lent to him 
irresponsibly. Mr B says he was struggling  to repay  his bills at the time and so he couldnt 
afford the loan repayments. He thinks Moneyboat shouldnt have lent to him because  of this. 
background
This complaint is about three loans Moneyboat provided to Mr B between  February  and June 
2017. Some of the information I have been  provided  about the loans can be found  in the 
table below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 02/02/2017 £200 3 28/04/2017
2 02/05/2017 £400 4 31/05/2017
3 12/06/2017 £400 6 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in full. Mr B agreed with the adjudicator but, as far as I 
can see Moneyboat hasnt responded. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible  lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website.  
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN60238542refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ive have  explained  why below.
As our adjudicator explained, Moneyboats credit checks showed  that Mr B had taken 
significant amounts  of other short term and high cost credit that he would need to repay at 
the same  times as the Moneyboat loans. And he had been borrowing from these other 
lenders for some time before he took the Moneyboat loans. And Mr B had two County 
Court Judgements outstanding wich were both for large amounts and were  not settled. He 
also had a number  of accounts  with debt collection agences that he was struggling to 
repay. 
I think its reasonable to say that this information  was easily  accessible  to Moneyboat.  And it 
follows that its also reasonable to say that Moneyboat should have fully considered it.
I think Moneyboat couldve realised at that time that Mr B may have had some longer-term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. And I think Moneyboat shouldve seen Mr B wasnt likely to have been able repay 
the loans in a sustainable way.
So, I think that Moneyboat  shouldnt have  given loans 1 to 3 to Mr B and I think  hes lost out 
as a result  of this. Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about these loans.
putting things right  what Moneyboat needs  to do
In deciding what redress Moneyboat should  fairly  pay in this case Ive thought about what  
might have happened had it not let. Clearly there are a great many possible,  and all 
hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow  the funds from a friend  or relative   assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided  to approach  a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different  application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available  to such a lender  and how he would (or ought  
to have)  treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly  dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial  chance that a new lender would have  been  
able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these  possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude  that Mr B would  more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboats liability  in this case  for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should  put right.
Moneyboat shouldnt have given Mr B loans 1 to 3.
Ref: DRN60238543If Moneyboat has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Moneyboat is not able to buy the debts back  then 
Moneyboat should  liaise  with the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined  below.
A) Moneyboat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Moneyboat should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual payments made by 
Mr B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Moneyboat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr B having made 
overpayments then Moneyboat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple  interest*  
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Moneyboat should  then refund the amounts calculated  in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr B. However if there is still an outstanding balance  then 
Moneyboat should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B. Moneyboat  shouldnt  
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal Moneyboat has already written-off.
E) Moneyboat should remove  any adverse information recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to loans  1 to 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to deduct tax from this interest.  Moneyboat 
should give Mr B a certificate  showing how much tax Moneyboat has deducted, if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint in full.
Evergreen Finance  London Ltd should put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6023854