K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited cancelled her 
decreasing term assurance policy without  her knowledge. 
background
In August  2013  Miss S applied for a decreasing  term assurance policy with critical illness 
cover, plus another policy, through an independent  financial  adviser.  The policies started on 
11 October 2013. 
Legal and General was unable to collect the premiums for Miss Ss policies in August  and 
September 2015. It wrote to her in September and November 2015,  to inform her shed 
missed premiums and would need  to contact it to bring the policies up to date.  Miss S 
contacted Legal and General on 23 November 2015 to pay the outstanding premiums. She 
also completed a declaration of health.  But Miss S also raised concerns about the way the 
plan had been set up, as her title and gender  had been mis-stated  on her policy  documents.
Legal and General attempted  to collect Miss Ss premium for her decreasing term assurance 
policy on 10 March 2017, but it was returned  unpaid. 
Miss S called Legal and General on 17 March 2017 as shed learned from her bank that the 
direct debit hadnt gone through. During this call Miss S again  raised  concerns about  the way 
the policy had been set up and whether  it was suitable for her needs.  She didnt understand 
why the policy was set up on a decreasing basis or why the policy wasnt  set to last for her 
whole life. As Miss S had raised concerns over whether the policy was suitable for her, 
Legal and Generals representative suggested she speak with a financial adviser. The 
representative also explained what Miss S would need to do to update her details on the 
policy. 
Legal and Generals financial  advisers called Miss S on 20 and 21 March  2017, to arrange  a 
time to review her policies. Miss S wasnt available to speak to them  at the time and so no 
arrangements were made.
  
On 31 March 2017 Legal and General  successfully  collected Miss Ss premium that had 
previously failed. But when it tried to collect the next premium in April 2017 this was again 
returned unpaid.  It tried to collect the premium a second time, but when this failed again the 
direct debit was cancelled, in line with the BACS rules. 
Legal and General wrote to Miss S in April and May 2017 to inform  her shed missed 
premium payments and would need  to contact  it to restart her direct debit and bring the 
policy up to date.   
Miss S called Legal and General in May 2017. She was unhappy as she believed shed 
resolved the problems with her direct debit  when shed called in March 2017. She explained 
again her concerns with the way the policy had been  set up, and it was again agreed that 
she should speak  with a financial adviser to check the policies met her needs. Miss S said it 
was important to her that she had cover in place  and so the adviser  took a card payment 
from her to bring her premiums up to date. But when asked if she wanted to set up her direct  
debit she said shed  leave  it until the financial adviser called her the following week.  
Ref: DRN65822052A financial adviser from Legal and General called Miss S on 9 May 2017 to arrange a time to 
review her policies. But due to some  confusion,  where both the financial adviser  and Miss S 
put each other on hold,  the call ended prematurely.
Legal and General said it wrote to Miss S on 22 September 2017 to tell her the policy had 
lapsed as her premiums  werent up to date. It advised her if she wanted to reinstate  the 
policy shed need  to pay the outstanding premiums and complete a declaration of health 
before they could  agree to restart cover. 
Miss S made no further contact with Legal  and General  so the policy  was cancelled.  
Miss S contacted Legal  and General in July 2018 as shed recently been diagnosed with 
ductal carcinoma in situ and wanted  to check that her policies were in place. She was 
disappointed to discover her decreasing  term assurance plan had been  cancelled the year 
before. 
Miss S complained as she felt Legal and General hadnt told her the policy  had been  
cancelled. She said she hadnt received a letter in September  2017  and believed  shed 
resolved the problem with her direct debit  when shed called in May 2017. She also 
explained shed  transferred money  into the account to ensure the premiums  could be 
collected. She explained it was really important that she had cover  in place. She said if shed 
been told her direct  debit  instruction had been  cancelled in April 2017 shed have provided 
new instructions to make sure she kept up with her premiums. 
Legal and General started looking into Miss Ss concerns, but it was unable to provide  her 
with an answer within  eight weeks so she referred her complaint  to our service.  
Sadly Miss Ss health has deteriorated  while shes been pursuing her complaint. Shes now 
being treated  for breast cancer and has submitted a terminal illness claim under her other 
policy, which is being considered under a separate complaint.  
Our investigator made  repeated attempts to obtain information  from Legal  and General, but 
when this wasnt forthcoming he reached a conclusion  based on the information hed 
received from Miss S. Based on this information  he concluded Legal and General hadnt 
done enough to bring it to Miss Ss attention that her direct debit instruction had been  
cancelled and needed to be restarted. He said had Legal and General done more  in 
May 2017 he believed it was more  likely  than not Miss S wouldve brought  her premiums up 
to date and cover wouldve continued.  He therefore asked Legal and General to reinstate the 
policy, consider a claim for benefit,  and pay Miss S compensation for the upset shed  
experienced while pursuing her complaint. 
Legal and General responded providing  its complete file. It was sympathetic to Miss Ss 
situation but explained it had followed the correct process when  the policy lapsed. It 
explained under  the relevant banking rules it needed Miss S to give it new instructions to 
reset her direct debit after it was cancelled in April 2017. It added  it had written  to Miss S as 
a courtesy to let her know  the premiums  had been missed, but explained that it was 
ultimately her responsibility  to ensure her premiums were paid. It had considered reinstating 
the policy outside its usual timeframes, but it said as Miss Ss health had now changed it 
couldnt consider  reinstating the policy. 
Having considered all the information  presented  by both sides, I issued a provisional  
decision on 5 March  2019 explaining why I wasnt  upholding Miss Ss complaint 
Ref: DRN65822053 
my provisional findings
I explained that under the policy terms and conditions, it was ultimately  Miss Ss 
responsibility to ensure  she kept up to date with her premiums. If she didnt, the policy  terms 
and conditions allowed  Legal and General to cancel the policy.  But I explained  that 
I expected Legal and General to act fairly  and reasonably, both when deciding to cancel the 
policy and when considering whether to reinstate cover that had lapsed.  
I considered the contact  Miss S had with Legal  and General in March and May 2017, but 
was satisfied the advisers on each occasion  had acted reasonably. I noted that in both calls 
while Miss S had talked  about the importance  of having cover  in place, shed also talked at 
length about her concerns that the policies she had in place werent suitable for her. In the 
circumstances I was satisfied theyd acted reasonably in referring her to speak to a financial 
adviser.
I also noted during  the call in May 2017,  Miss S was offered the chance to reinstate her 
direct debit but she chose  not to at the time, as she would  be speaking with a financial 
adviser the following week. While I accept Miss S may have misinterpreted why she needed 
to reinstate her direct debit, as she thought it related to a new policy, I didnt feel I could hold 
the adviser responsible for this. 
I was satisfied that Legal and General was entitled to cancel the policy  when it did, as three 
monthly premiums had been missed. As the policy terms and conditions allowed 
Legal and General to cancel the policy  after the premium had been  missed for 30 days,  I 
thought allowing an extra grace period was fair. 
I considered the fact that Legal  and General hadnt written to Miss S again when her 
premiums were missed in July and August 2017. I agreed that it couldve done more  to alert 
Miss S to the fact that her premiums hadnt been  collected. But as Miss S was ultimately 
responsible for ensuring her premiums  were up to date, and as shed been made aware 
there were outstanding  problems, I didnt think Legal and General was unreasonable to 
cancel the policy even though it hadnt contacted her again.
In terms of having the policy reinstated after it had been cancelled,  I explained there  was no 
contractual right for this to happen.  In the circumstances  I thought Legal and General had 
fairly concluded it couldnt reinstate  the policy. It hadnt received a premium  for 12 months 
and Miss Ss health had changed since her last premium had been  paid.  
I thought about  the fact Legal and General hadnt  been able to clearly evidence  it had sent a 
letter in September 2017. I concluded  that while it would  be good industry practice to have 
sent a further  notice  the policy had lapsed, it wasnt compulsory.  And ultimately, while  
Legal and General couldve  done  better, I wasnt persuaded its error was sufficiently  serious 
to expect it to reinstate  a policy more than 10 months after it was cancelled and more  than 
12 months since the last premium was paid. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Miss S disagreed with my provisional decision.  She felt my conclusions  were unfair and that 
Id relied too heavily on the policy terms and conditions and not what  was fair in the 
circumstances. She remained of the opinion that the advisers  shed spoken to in March  and 
May 2017 had failed  to take the necessary action to set up her direct debit. She also felt 
Ref: DRN65822054Legal and General hadnt done enough  to let her know shed missed additional premiums.  
She says if it had she wouldve paid the outstanding  premiums. She was also unhappy 
I hadnt responded specifically to a list of concerns  shed raised about Legal and General. 
She felt Id ignored  investigations completed  by both Legal and General and our service,  
which found Legal and General at fault. 
Legal and General acknowledged receipt  of my provisional decision, but made  no further 
comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes Miss Ss responses to my 
provisional decision and the new evidence shes presented showing Legal and General 
accepting fault for some  errors. 
Id like to reassure Miss S that Ive given careful  consideration  to Legal and Generals 
investigation file, and the conclusions reached  by its complaints manager, when reaching my 
own conclusion. I realise it must  be very disappointing to learn that Ive attached a different 
significance to those  errors than Miss S thinks I should. But my role is to consider complaints 
impartially, deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im sorry  for any upset caused  by the fact I hadnt  addressed each of Miss Ss complaint 
points against  Legal and General within my provisional decision. Id like to reassure Miss S 
that Ive read and considered everything  shes sent in and told us. I hope Miss S wont take 
the fact that my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the central issues,  and that they 
arent expressed in the detail shed hoped  for, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision 
isnt to address  every  point raised.  Its to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching 
them. 
mistakes made by Legal and General 
I accept there were shortcomings in some of Legal  and Generals actions and processes. I 
agree it couldve  done  more to notify Miss S that additional premiums  had been missed after 
it received her payment in May 2017.  It could  also have  made  further attempts to contact her 
to review her cover. But it doesnt  necessarily follow  that if Legal  and General made  
mistakes the policy should be reinstated. 
I know Miss S feels Ive only considered her case from the point of view of the terms and 
conditions. She feels I havent considered the fairness of the circumstances. But Id like to 
assure her Ive given  very careful consideration to whats fair in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
When weighing up whats fair and reasonable, I have to consider all the facts,  including the 
terms and conditions, as well as the actions of each party. While I understand the 
consequences of this decision are life changing  for Miss S, I have to remain fair to both 
parties when reaching my conclusion. 
I accept Legal  and General couldve done  more to notify Miss S that her premiums were  
outstanding from July 2017. But I also have  to take into account  that Miss S ought  
reasonably to have  known  that she hadnt  made any ongoing arrangement to pay her 
Ref: DRN65822055premiums. Im also satisfied Miss S was aware  that her ongoing  cover  was reliant on her 
premiums being up to date, as shed mentioned this when speaking  with both advisers.  
I know Miss S has said she wasnt aware  her direct debit had been cancelled in March 2017. 
But having  looked at all the circumstances,  I think Legal and General did enough to notify  
her that it had been. 
After April 2017s payment had been missed, Legal  and General  wrote to Miss S twice  to say 
the direct  debit had failed.  It also set out what Miss S needed to do to restart the direct 
debit  this included completing  a new direct debit mandate or calling Legal and General. I 
think the use of the word  restart implied the direct debit had stopped.    
Although Miss S called Legal and General and made a one off payment in May 2017 to bring 
the policy up to date, she was told this would  cover the premiums that would be due up to 
June 2017. She was offered the chance  to set the direct debit back up but she chose to 
wait until shed spoken with a financial adviser  the following  week. 
While I accept Legal and General didnt  explicitly tell Miss S that her direct debit had been 
cancelled, I think she ought  to have known it hadnt been restarted as she chose not to do 
this at the time. Overall, I think Legal  and General did enough to notify her that shed need to 
take further action  for her premiums to be collected  going forward. 
Taking all the circumstances into account,  I dont think  Legal and General acted 
unreasonably when it cancelled the policy. It had notified Miss S there was a problem with 
her direct debit, twice by letter and once over the phone. It had also allowed her a three 
month grace  period where no premium was being  received before it cancelled the cover. 
 
September 2017 letter
Miss S is concerned that Ive dismissed  the September 2017 letter  as unimportant.  Id like to 
assure her that I havent dismissed  any of the evidence thats  been  presented.   
It isnt necessary for me to decide  whether the September 2017 letter was sent to Miss S. 
Because, even  if I accept  the letter wasnt sent,  it doesnt follow that its fair and reasonable 
to ask Legal and General to reinstate the policy. 
While Legal and General may not have  sent the final letter showing the policy  had lapsed, it 
had previously told Miss S there was a problem with her direct  debit and had offered to 
restart it. It also hadnt collected  any further  premiums from Miss S after the card payment 
she made in May 2017, which wouldve been clear  from bank statements.  
Im satisfied Legal and General gave Miss S enough  information to know that there was a 
problem with her premium payments that hadnt been resolved during her conversations. 
She was also told that her card payment covered the premiums  that were  due up to and 
including June 2017. 
As no premium was received after this date, I consider  that Legal and General was entitled 
to cancel the policy when it did. After the policy had been cancelled, Miss S wouldve had to 
complete a declaration of health  before  Legal and General would agree to reinstate cover. 
Id expect Legal and General to act fairly  and reasonably when considering  whether to allow  
the policy to be reinstated.  In doing so it could reasonably take into consideration how many 
premiums had been missed and if thered  been any change to Miss Ss health.   
Ref: DRN65822056Unfortunately in this case, when Miss S contacted Legal and General to ask that her cover 
be reinstated, her premiums had been unpaid  for twelve months and shed had a significant 
change in health. In these  circumstances,  I dont think  Legal and General acted 
unreasonably by refusing to reinstate cover. 
 
This has been a very difficult case to decide, in part because  of Miss Ss current  
circumstances, but also because I know Miss S had shown she was eager to keep cover in 
place when she spoke  with Legal and Generals  advisers in 2017. I also accept she never 
intended for the cover to lapse. But taking  everything into account,  I cant say Legal and 
General acted unfairly for cancelling  the policy when it did. And I dont think it would be fair 
for me to expect it to offer to reinstate the cover now,  given  the length of time the policy  has 
gone unpaid  and given Miss Ss change in health.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outline above,  I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2019.
 
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6582205