K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained to us that he was mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) by 
Sesame Limited (Sesame) when he took out a mortgage in November 1998. He says he 
wasnt given a choice  about taking out the policy and thought  his mortgage application would 
be rejected if he didnt take it. He also says the policy wasnt  explained to him. 
 
background
One of our adjudicators explained that because this policy was sold prior to the sale of 
insurance being covered by us, we could only look at Mr Bs complaint where it related to a 
breach of the Mortgage Code. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint as he wasnt  
persuaded a breach had occurred.
Mr B asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance market  only became  something we covered  in its own right on 
14 January 2005.  We can look at some complaints about insurance before that date but only 
if the complaint  related to something we already covered, or if the business was member of 
a former complaint  scheme.
Sesame was a member of a former  scheme,  the Mortgage Code  Arbitration  Scheme  
(MCAS). So we can look into this complaint, but only in the same way MCAS could. MCAS 
could only have looked at the four issues  below when  considering  complaints about  
insurance that was sold alongside a secured loan or mortgage. These are:
Whether a description is given  of any insurance  service which  can be arranged  (for 
example, buildings, contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and whose 
responsibility it is to ensure that it is taken out;
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by 
the business selling it;
Whether a general description is given of any costs, fees or other  charges in connection 
with the mortgage which may be payable by the consumer (for example, mortgage 
valuation fees, arrangement fees and insurance  premiums).
Because Im limited to the four issues  above, I can only consider Mr Bs complaint that he 
wasnt given a choice  about taking the PPI and that a description of the insurances that 
could be arranged wasnt given.
This sale took place  at a meeting. Sesame has told us that it no longer has any of the sale 
documentation. But I wouldnt necessarily expect  Sesame  to have paperwork given that the 
sale took place  over 20 years ago. 
Ref: DRN63663662However, Ive seen the certificate of cover, showing that Mr B had bought  cover  for only for 
accident and sickness and giving details about  the cost. The certificate of cover  is something 
I would have expected Mr B to have received when he took out the cover. 
I obviously cant know what happened at the time of the sale, but from what Mr Bs told us he 
was aware of the type of PPI he was buying and its cost, given that he wanted the cheapest 
option. So on balance  Im satisfied a description of PPI, i.e. that it was insurance to protect  
repayments in the event  of accident and sickness, was likely given.
 
On its own the paperwork  Ive seen isnt enough to make me think taking out PPI was a 
condition of getting the mortgage lending. I realise Mr B doesnt remember  it this way  but I 
wouldnt necessarily expect him to have  a detailed memory of what  was said after so much 
time. And being  told its a good  idea to buy PPI cover  as sometimes happens - is not the 
same as being told its something  that must be taken out. 
Also, I think its likely Mr B was given enough information about  the cover  to have a general  
idea about its cost. I therefore  dont think theres enough to suggest that Sesame breached  
the mortgage code.
In order to find there had been a mis-sale, I would need to see evidence  that Mr B was 
explicitly told he had to have the policy when he didnt want  it, or that Sesame had mis-sold  
the policy due to one of the other issues I set out above. Having carefully considered  the 
evidence available, including  what Mr Bs told us, Im not persuaded such a breach occurred, 
so I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6366366