K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains about how Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  has handled a claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy with it. 
background
Miss L was involved in an accident in her car and made a claim on her policy.  Her vehicle 
was repaired and Admiral  settled the claim  on a 50/50 basis.  Miss L thinks  thats  wrong, and 
the claim should be settled as a non-fault claim.  She is also concerned that she was charged 
by the car hire company  while  her car was being  repaired  and about  the handling of the 
claim in general.
Admiral looked into Miss Ls complaint and upheld  it. Admiral agreed that it had reached a 
decision on liability a little quicker than it ought,  and that it had got it wrong. It said it gave an 
early indication that the claim would be settled 100% at fault  against  Miss L, but later 
decided that it should be settled 50/50. Admiral said Miss L received poor service when 
collecting a hire car because the garage  hadnt  passed on all the details to the hire 
company. She was also initially told a charge would be made  for insurance  cover on the hire 
car, although that was corrected. Admiral offered Miss L £100 compensation and returned 
half of the excess  shed paid  a total of £325  for the poor service shed received. 
Miss L was unhappy with Admirals response  to her complaint and referred it to us. She 
added to her complaint  that shed had to take her car back for further work. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. Overall  our adjudicator agreed that Admiral should have handled 
the claim better,  but she explained it isnt our role to decide liability  in complaints of this 
nature. She felt their offer was sufficient in the circumstances. 
Miss L didnt  agree.  She went  over the circumstances  of the incident  again and said shed 
had to take the car back to the garage  for further  repairs. Our adjudicator recapped the 
information given  to Admiral by Miss L when she first notified it of the incident. She explained 
that she couldnt consider Miss Ls concerns about having to return  to the garage  as theyd 
need to be referred  to Admiral first for consideration. Our adjudicator  stood by her earlier  
opinion that Admiral had made a reasonable offer to settle the complaint. 
As there was no agreement, Miss Ls complaint was referred to me for a final decision.  
Miss L said she accepted  that we couldnt make a decision on liability.  But she felt it was 
unfair that she paid her insurance company each month so that the process would be 
smooth if she were involved in an incident;  she feels  the process has been far from smooth.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L has acknowledged that we cant look at the liability  decision reached by Admiral   
that is something only a court can do. But we can check  that Admiral  have conducted  a 
reasonable investigation in order to reach the decision  it has. 
Admiral has considered case law, both Miss Ls account of what  happened and that of the 
third party, and concluded that a 50/50 decision was fair way to settle the claim. This is in 
line with the terms  and conditions of Miss Ls policy which allow  Admiral to conduct the 
Ref: DRN60194522defence or settlement of any claim  on your behalf and admit negligence for any accident or 
claim on your behalf. I think Admiral has carried out a reasonable investigation and reached 
a reasonable decision  based  on the evidence.
But that is not to say that Admiral  and its agents   have  handled  Miss Ls claim well. It is 
clear that her claim  didnt  progress smoothly and mistakes were made. For example, 
Miss Ls full details were  not supplied to the hire car company and she was told that shed 
have to pay a further  premium to drive the hire car. While these issues were sorted out 
reasonably quickly,  I acknowledge that theyd  have caused Miss L some trouble and upset. 
Admiral has offered Miss L £100  and to refund half of the excess  she paid. I think thats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that if it hasnt already done  so, Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited  
should pay Miss L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and refund half of 
the excess shes paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Richard Hale 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6019452