K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc sent her an internet banking passcode.
background
Ms A contacted Barclays  about a gone away marker on her account in September  2018. 
She would usually have contacted her assigned case  handler  but this individual  was away 
so she spoke to someone  else on the general  helpline. 
During the telephone conversation she asked the adviser to update her contact number on 
the system. But the adviser said this wasnt possible. Instead he said he could add a 
notepad with her number which would be referenced in the system notes. But Ms A didnt 
think this was sufficient   she wanted  her number to be fully updated on the system. So the 
adviser offered  to send a telephone banking passcode which would allow  the changes to go 
ahead. Ms A agreed to this and appeared happy  with this as a resolution.
But Ms A said she received an internet banking passcode, rather  than a telephone banking  
passcode. Shes unhappy  because she didnt want online or telephone banking and also 
because she says the letter almost didnt reach her. 
Barclays has explained that it cant see what was sent to Ms A, as the letter  is automatically 
generated by its system. But it said that Ms A is showing as inactive for internet banking, 
and is shown to have a membership for telephone banking. So Barclays  cant see how she 
wouldve been sent an internet banking passcode. 
Ms As contact  details  have now been  updated on Barclays system.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He thought  it was unclear whether Ms A fully 
understood what was being sent to her but appeared satisfied that she had agreed  to the 
telephone banking passcode. He noted Ms As concern was about  the passcode  going 
missing and being used fraudulently but pointed out that it had been  delivered successfully. 
So he couldnt see that shed lost out financially or been caused any detriment by what 
happened. So he didnt uphold the complaint. Ms A disagreed so the complaint  has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms A, I dont uphold  her complaint  and 
Ill explain  why. But before I do, Id like to point out that its for a business to decide what  
internal processes and procedures it has in place.  This generally  isnt something which our 
service would interfere  with, as such matters  are within the scope of reasonable, legitimate 
commercial judgments.  Barclays  has said that Ms As number couldnt be changed during 
the call for security reasons. That seems plausible and persuasive so I accept it.  
Having listened  to the phone call, I heard the adviser offer Ms A the notepad option but, 
when she wasnt satisfied  with that, the telephone  banking passcode  option was given to 
her. Im persuaded  Ms A agreed to receiving this  so I dont think  Barclays  did anything  
wrong here.
Ref: DRN65549502I havent seen  the letter  that was sent to Ms A, so there isnt enough information to say 
whether she was sent a telephone or internet banking passcode. Barclays isnt able to 
provide me with this and Ms A doesnt appear  to have  sent it to us. Barclays has explained 
why it doesnt  think it sent out an internet banking passcode  it says Ms A doesnt have an 
active profile for internet banking, but does for telephone banking and the suggestion is that 
this aligns with the passcode that shouldve been sent out. But I dont actually think it matters  
in this case. 
I say this because  Ms A says she didnt want either passcode  because of past issues  with 
fraudulent activity on her account and the fear that the letters  could be intercepted.  I cant 
see that anything  like this happened as a result of a passcode  whether for online or 
telephone banking  being sent to her on this occasion. So I cant fairly say that Ms A has 
lost out financially as a result. And, given that she did safely  receive the letter  containing the 
passcode, I dont think its fair to hold Barclays responsible for any distress  or inconvenience 
caused by this matter,  particularly  as she agreed  to the receipt of some form of passcode. 
Based on everything  Ive seen and been told, I dont think  Barclays  has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably so I wont be asking it to do anything  further here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint against  Barclays  Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019. 
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6554950