K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the interest and charges on his Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
equity release mortgage.
background
In 2003 Mr C took out an equity release mortgage  for £147,000 on an interest roll-up basis,  
so he didnt need to make any monthly payments. He downsized  in 2012 and part-repaid  
£166,000 at that time. He says he still owes about  £220,000, plus will incur an early 
repayment charge  if he wants  to repay  the mortgage. Mr C is unhappy that the debt has 
increased by so much.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said that, based on 
the information available, she was satisfied  that Mr C had been  given enough  information  to 
enable him to make an informed decision  about the equity  release mortgage he took out.
Mr C didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr C has set out his account  of events in 
considerable detail. I trust he wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint 
in the way that I have. Ours  is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr C, but although Ive read and considered  the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial between, and independent  from, 
consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent either party,  and I 
dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or 
what questions should be asked or answered.
The equity release mortgage was arranged by a third party  company unconnected  to Aviva. 
The application form was filled in and submitted to Aviva, which set up the mortgage as 
requested. It seems Aviva neither  met with nor spoke to Mr C, and it didnt give him any 
advice about the suitability of the mortgage.
Having looked  at the documents,  Im satisfied Aviva  did enough to make  Mr C aware of the 
likely costs (including roll-up interest) if he went ahead.  It also recommended  that he seek  
independent legal advice if he was in any doubt  about whether it was right for him.
Mr C feels the interest is disproportionately high, but the variable rate and likely costs over 
five, ten and twenty years were set out clearly in the mortgage agreement. Aviva didnt give 
Mr C any advice about whether this was best for him, it simply set out what  he had applied  
for in the mortgage agreement, in a format that met the requirements of the time. Whilst I 
understand Mr Cs concerns, there  was nothing more  that Aviva  was required to do.
Ref: DRN62240332Having carefully considered this matter I cant reasonably find that Aviva  acted incorrectly  
when it set up this mortgage that Mr C applied for. Not can I safely  find that the interest  has 
been added  to the account in a manner  other  than as was set out in the contract Mr C 
entered into. When Mr C downsized  Aviva was allowed to tell him he had to reduce the level 
of debt owed as Mr Cs new property was worth significantly less than the property he was 
moving from. That was allowed for under the contract Mr C entered in.
Mr C says this was the worst decision hed made,  and hes been ripped off. It may be this 
was a bad decision, but thats not Avivas fault. All it did was give Mr C the product that hed 
applied for. And the basis of that product  including how much the debt might roll up to, and 
the early repayment  charge  was set out in the paperwork. This mortgage wasnt linked to 
the Bank of England Base  rate; instead it had a minimum interest rate, plus a variable added  
amount that was linked  to the retail price index (subject to a maximum interest rate). That 
was explained  in the paperwork, and it was the responsibility of Mr Cs independent  adviser 
and solicitor to ensure  Mr C understood what that meant in real terms.
Mr C has also mentioned  some newspaper articles. But our role is to impartially  look at 
individual disputes between consumers and financial businesses where the consumer thinks 
theyve lost out. We look at the individual circumstances and decide whether we think the 
business did anything  wrong. Here  Aviva has simply followed the contract Mr C entered into 
and complied with its terms and conditions, which apply to all its customers. General 
comments in the media about such products arent  relevant.
Im mindful that this isnt the decision  that Mr C was hoping for. If Mr C still feels  that Aviva 
acted incorrectly hes, of course, free to pursue this matter in the courts.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6224033