K821x#15complaint
Ms D says Elevate Credit International Limited   trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Sunny provided to Ms D between January and 
June 2018. Ms Ds borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 15/01/2018 30/08/2018 6 £300.00 £88.74
2 22/02/2018 30/08/2018 6 £350.00 £205.41
3 12/05/2018 30/08/2018 6 £150.00 £250.25
4 05/06/2018 30/08/2018 6 £150.00 £297.77
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ds complaint and thought loans 3 and 4 shouldnt  have  been  
given because proportionate checks would have shown Ms D was struggling to manage  her 
money. Sunny disagreed and said it believed  it had done proportionate  checks  on ensure  
Ms D could afford the loans.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms D could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN69425082There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms D could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ds complaint. Having  done so, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had carried out proportionate checks  for loans 1 and 2. Ms D 
didnt respond  to the view. As there is no dispute with the adjudicators opinion about  these 
loans, I wont be making  any findings  on them. 
Sunny says it carried out checks before  it lent loan 3 to Ms D and the results of these  checks  
didnt raise any concerns.  But as this was Ms Ds third loan in four months, I think Sunny 
should have been looking to build  a clearer picture  about Ms Ds finances  before lending her 
this loan. 
Had Sunny  carried  out proportionate checks before lending loan 3, its likely to have found 
that Ms D was borrowing from other short-term lenders as well as having out-standing loans 
with Sunny itself.  The repayments for these  loans would have been  increasing her monthly 
outgoings meaning it was unlikely Ms D would be able to repay  the loans sustainably.  This 
behaviour was also most likely an indication Ms D was in a cycle of debt and the further 
borrowing to cover the hole that repaying  her previous loans were leaving in her finances. 
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 3 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms D paid on loans 3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Ms Ds credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Ms D a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN69425083For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ds complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6942508