K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Santander  UK Plc refused their application to port their 
mortgage, meaning they had to go to another lender and pay an early repayment charge 
(ERC). They  want  the ERC  refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Santander. In April 2018,  they took a new two year fixed 
rate. This product  was portable  meaning it could be moved to another property if Mr and 
Mrs S moved house  but came  with an ERC  if it was ended during the two years.
In August  2018,  Mr and Mrs S decided to move  house. They say their ideal house in an ideal 
area had suddenly come on the market, and as houses in that area do not come on the 
market very often, they didnt want to miss the opportunity. So they applied  to Santander to 
port their existing mortgage to the new property, along with additional borrowing.
Santander considered their application.  It gave them a decision in principle, but when it 
looked in more detail it decided it couldnt  offer them what they wanted. Mrs S had several 
discussions with Santander advisers, and it was agreed to look again  in September when Mr 
and Mrs S had more evidence of recently  increased  salaries. But again, Santander didnt 
agree to lend what they wanted. 
Worried about losing  their house, Mr and Mrs S applied  to another lender,  which  did offer 
them a mortgage.  So they were able to complete their purchase   but had to pay an ERC to 
Santander.
Mr and Mrs S complained. Santander  agreed that it hadnt handled their mortgage 
application as well as it should. Theyd  been given misleading information when speaking  to 
the advisers. And the advisers hadnt recorded their finances correctly, which led to them 
being told Santander would offer lower amounts. 
Santander upheld  their complaint and offered to pay £250  compensation for their 
inconvenience. But it didnt  agree  to refund  the ERC. It said there  was no guarantee it would 
have lent even if the application had been considered properly.  And it noted that Mr and Mrs 
S had chosen  without advice from Santander   an interest rate with an ERC just a few 
months before.  It thought  it likely that theyd already decided  to move at this point, and so 
shouldnt have chosen a product with an ERC  and if theyd asked for advice at that time, 
Santander wouldnt have  recommended  one. 
Our adjudicator said Santander should  refund the ERC in addition to the £250  it had already 
paid. So Santander asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  here that Santander  didnt handle the application  well. In particular, it didnt 
record what Mr and Mrs S said about their finances  correctly, meaning the initial decisions to 
offer lower  borrowing werent  correct.
Ref: DRN68810062So what  I have to decide is what Santander needs to do to put matters right  and in 
particular whether it would be fair to ask it to refund the ERC.
Santanders argument, in summary,  is that, firstly,  Mr and Mrs S shouldnt  have chosen a 
product with an ERC in April; and, secondly, even if it considered the application properly it 
still might  not have lent them the amount they wanted.
Mr and Mrs S chose  their interest rate online without  advice. The online application system 
would have clearly  set out the ERC payable and warned Mr and Mrs S about it.
But Im not persuaded by Santanders argument  here. In the first place, I accept what  
Mr and Mrs S say. The decision  to move house in August was prompted by the sudden  
availability of their dream house. That couldnt  have  been  predicted  in April. I dont think, on 
balance, that it is likely  Mr and Mrs S were planning  to move when they took out their rate.
And even  if they were,  this is a portable  product. If Santander considered an application  for a 
new mortgage properly,  and granted it, no ERC would  be payable  even  if Mr and Mrs S 
moved house. So I think Santanders first argument falls away,  and this case turns  on the 
second argument  would, properly  considered,  Santander have granted their application?
Theres no way to be sure about that, since it never  in fact happened. By the time Santander 
acknowledged its errors and agreed  to look again, Mr and Mrs S had an offer from a new 
lender and didnt have  enough time  or confidence in Santander  to risk withdrawing from 
that for Santander  to start the process  again. 
But Santander did tell us that it is clear that we could have considered the level of borrowing 
the customers wanted if our mortgage relationship manager had asked for the relevant 
evidence. Its not guaranteed until the application  is underwritten,  which  it never was. But 
its clear to me that Mr and Mrs Ss application  fell within Santanders  lending  criteria. And I 
note that another major high street lender did lend them what they wanted  in fact, it lent 
more, to cover the ERC, and over a slightly shorter term,  than Santander was considering.  
On balance, I think its likely that if Santander had considered  the application properly it 
would have lent Mr and Mrs S what they needed.
That being  the case, their existing interest rate could  have been ported  and they would 
never have  paid the ERC. So, in my view, its fair for Santander to refund the ERC.
The new mortgage  isnt quite like for like. Its over a slightly shorter term, and at a very 
slightly lower interest rate. So Mr and Mrs S are slightly better off on this mortgage than they 
would have been had they stayed with Santander   apart from the extra  borrowing because  
of the ERC. 
Ordinarily, I would take account of that saving in the redress  the ERC refund would be 
reduced by the amount Mr and Mrs S have saved by moving lender.
However, in this case, I think  the saving is likely to be relatively small. And I dont think the 
£250 compensation Santander has already paid is enough to reflect  the trouble and upset 
caused by the errors with the mortgage application  and the resulting delays to their house 
move  with the risk of it falling through altogether. In the interests of simplicity, and making 
what I consider overall to be a fair award  in the circumstances, I wont reduce the ERC 
refund to reflect the savings made   but nor will I increase the £250  compensation. The two 
broadly balance each other out.
Ref: DRN68810063Mr and Mrs S had to borrow the ERC by increasing  the balance  of their new mortgage. The 
new mortgage allows them to make overpayments by up to 10%, so they could remove the 
impact of future interest  by using the refund to overpay their mortgage. Santander should 
refund the mortgage interest to date, plus a further  14 days  after settlement to give 
Mr and Mrs S time to use the refund to reduce their mortgage balance,  if they choose  to do 
so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to refund the ERC Mr and Mrs S paid, in addition  to the £250 
compensation already paid. It should add compound interest  at the annual  rate of 1.89% to 
the ERC  refund, with interest running  from the date the ERC was paid to 14 days after the 
date the settlement is paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6881006