K820x#14complaint
Ms P says when Hiscox Insurance Company Limited added a second  business to her 
existing business  insurance policy it failed to tell her it wouldnt be covered  for legal 
expenses protection.
background
Ms P had a package  of business  insurance  for her limited company (X) arranged  through  
Hiscox. The main elements of cover were public and products liability; professional  
indemnity; crisis containment and commercial  legal protection. The main elements of her 
cover were  provided by Hiscox. A different underwriter was responsible for her legal 
protection, although this was still arranged through Hiscox.
Ive not considered any concerns Ms P may have about the insurer providing her legal 
expenses cover. Shell need to take these up separately with that company in the first 
instance if she hasnt  already done so. Ive only focussed on any acts or omissions of 
Hiscox.
Ms P called  Hiscox in February 2018.  One of the matters  she wanted to discuss  was 
extending her cover  to include her sole trader business (Y). After  talking things  through with 
the adviser Y was added to her policy.
In April 2018 Ms P tried to make claims for unpaid invoices for services  provided by Y. 
Although one of these  claims  was initially accepted, the insurer providing  legal protection 
made the payment to X. Ms P contacted the insurer and asked it to reissue the cheque  in Ys 
name. But to her surprise, she was informed  that her sole trader  business  didnt  actually 
have commercial legal protection  and so her claims were declined.
Ms P had a number  of concerns about what happened. For example, she says her policy 
was mis-sold at the point she asked for Y to be included.  She says she was misadvised  and 
the new cover was misrepresented. She thought she had exactly  the same cover for X and 
Y. She also told us the policy documents sent to her in February  2018  werent  right  for 
example, they didnt  show Y as her primary business for insurance purposes.
Hiscox accepted that its adviser shouldve gone further in explaining to Ms P what  Y was 
and wasnt covered for when it was added to her business insurance  policy.  But it said she 
was sent insurance  documents detailing  what cover she had. And Hiscox told us there 
hadnt been any financial detriment to Ms P because  she wouldnt have been able to make 
the claims for Y even if the cover had been set up, due to an exclusion period in the policy.
The investigator upheld  this case.  Hiscox disagreed and so Ms Ps complaint was passed to 
me to consider. I issued my provisional  decision in December 2018 inviting both parties to 
provide any further  evidence  or arguments they wanted me to consider. Im grateful to Ms P 
for her detailed comments which Ive thought about carefully before arriving at this final 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN68633442Ive reviewed Ms Ps testimony. Ive listened  to calls she made  to Hiscox, in particular when 
she was setting up additional insurance  for Y in February 2018, when the problem with her 
cover emerged in April 2018 and when  she queried the documentation shed been sent in 
August 2018.  Ive read Hiscox case notes. And Ive reviewed Ms Ps policy  documents.
The conversation Ms P had with Hiscox in February  2018 wasnt  precise. But during the call 
Ms P did ask exactly  what Y would be insured for. She gave examples that focussed around  
public liability and contents cover. The adviser  outlined what sort of things would be covered 
and some things that wouldnt  but it wasnt a comprehensive description.
Its true that Ms P didnt  mention  legal protection in the call. Hiscox says that if she had done 
its adviser wouldve  been able to make  it clear what options were available  to cover Y. It also 
says it doesnt  provide  advice and this was made  clear in the call. Im not persuaded by this 
argument because  I dont think a factual readout of what cover Y would and wouldnt enjoy is 
advice.
There was also some confusion at Hiscox about how Y shouldve been treated. This was 
around whether  it shouldve been set up as a subsidiary of X or as an additional insured - a 
separate entity. The difference here mayve  conferred different  cover,  although I note the 
agreement of the underwriter for legal protection wouldve been required to secure  the cover 
available in any event.
Hiscox has said Ms P was sent policy documents which set out clearly what her policy 
covered for X and Y. I think its on stronger ground  here. On the front page of the schedule  it 
noted clearly an effective date for the change  to her policy  and set out that Y had been 
added as an additional insured. It went on to note:
The covers applicable to each  additional  insured are set out under the additional insureds 
section of this schedule.
Under the additional insureds section  the following table set out the insurance cover 
provided for Y:
Commercial Legal  Protection Not covered
Crisis Containment Not covered
Public and Products Liability Covered
Professional Indemnity Covered
Given the importance of the cover for her businesses and the nature  of the conversation  
shed had with the adviser,  its unfortunate Ms P didnt read her policy documents.  Had she 
done so she wouldve spotted the problem and it couldve been sorted out. So I think Ms P 
must bear some responsibility here, although I recognise the point she explained about her 
preferred methods of communication.
Ive no reason to doubt that both parties were  acting in good  faith.  And Ive no doubt 
problems with communication  in the phone  call meant that Ms P left the discussion with the 
impression the cover she already had for X would  also apply to Y. Indeed,  as shes  noted, 
the same  understanding was held by a number of advisers at Hiscox.
Ref: DRN68633443In its final response to Ms P in May 2018  Hiscox accepted its adviser shouldve done better. 
I agree  - I think it bears the main  responsibility  for what happened.
I can understand why Ms P thinks the failings in advice that Hiscox was responsible  for is 
enough for me to uphold her complaint.  But that isnt the end of the matter. Im required to 
think about what wouldve  happened  if the call in February 2018 had been effective. And 
what detriment Ms P has suffered as a result of the things Hiscox got wrong.
I think the most likely  outcome of an effective conversation between Hiscox  and Ms P in 
February 2018 wouldve been  commercial  legal insurance being arranged for Y. But theres 
a problem here. In providing cover for a new entity  - which the legal protection insurer  has 
confirmed wouldve been the status  of Y - certain  policy terms are relevant. For example, for 
the commercial legal insurance in the section  about  contract disputes it says the following 
wont be covered:
Any dispute arising  from an agreement entered  into prior to the inception  date of the 
indemnity provided  by this section if the date of occurrence is within the first 90 days  of the 
indemnity provided  by this section.
Theres a similar clause related to debt recovery claims.
The claims Ms P presented to the legal expenses insurer in April 2018 wouldve fallen foul of 
this term. And the underwriter for the legal insurance  has confirmed these terms wouldve 
applied to Y as a new entity on her insurance.
Ive thought about what other options  wouldve  been available to Ms P. The first hurdle to 
consider is whether she wouldve  been alerted to or investigated the terms and conditions 
that applied to her commercial legal insurance  for Y.
At the time of arranging cover presumably  she wasnt aware she would  need  to make use of 
it so quickly  after all insurance is to mitigate  the risks of unknown  or uncertain events. So if 
shed been aware of the 90-day clause  she may not have thought it was significant.
If on the other hand Ms P had become aware of the 90-day clause for the legal insurance 
and thought this mightve  been problematic, she couldve shopped  around  for alternative 
policies without a 90 day clause. But in my experience  these sorts of terms are not unusual, 
so it might not have  been possible.
While I recognise what  Ms P is saying when  she told me that she wasnt used to buying 
business protection insurance and so wouldnt  have  been aware of common  terms such  as 
exclusion periods,  I still have to take them into account. The point is if shed shopped around 
its more likely than not shed still have been affected by such terms.
Even if Ms P had looked more widely  and found a policy she thought would be better, all 
legal expenses insurances have other terms and conditions which apply. For example, 
before taking any legal action, claims  have to have good prospects of success. Many 
policies will also weigh whether  its proportionate  to accept  a claim given the sums at stake 
and the potential costs involved.
The problems with trying  to think about  what mightve happened if things had worked  out 
properly in February 2018 are clear. The possibilities Ive set out are speculative.  We cant  
ever know  for sure what wouldve happened. But I do think  some paths of action  are more 
likely than others.
Ref: DRN68633444In her response to my provisional  decision Ms P has confirmed that if in the call to Hiscox in 
February 2018 it had been explained to her that only one of her businesses  couldve been 
covered for legal protection  she wouldve chosen  to prioritise  Y. And indeed,  this is the 
arrangement she subsequently  agreed.
But the point is that because Y was a new entity  being insured for legal protection  - as far as 
the underwriters were concerned - then her claims wouldve then been  caught by the terms 
Ive mentioned already. And thats  why I dont  think Ms P suffered any financial detriment in 
terms of her insurance arrangements. Although of course I do appreciate  the loss she 
suffered from not being paid for her services was real.
Ms P also told us about her concerns with the policy documentation she received. She 
thought that during her call in February 2018  shed  said to the adviser  she wanted to switch 
X for Y in terms of her sole trader business becoming the primary business for insurance.  
Having listened  to the call I agree with the investigator on this point  she didnt make  this 
request. And in a subsequent call with Hiscox  where it was confirmed that Y had been added  
as the additional business she acknowledged the position.
Ive also listened  to a later call in August  where  there were  some communication  issues  
between Hiscox and Ms P. There was confusion  about the documentation that had been 
issued in February 2018. But I think the matter was clear to both parties in the end. I dont 
agree with Ms P that the adviser  was lying to her and trying to cover things up. I think she 
got mixed-up and flustered.
I can see that more recently another adviser at Hiscox  mistakenly told Ms P both her 
businesses were covered  for commercial legal expenses. A manager made contact to 
apologise. Hiscox told us that it would be ensuring its advisers received more guidance on 
these matters.
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint, Ill think  about whether it's fair to award  
compensation for trouble  caused. This isn't intended to fine or punish a business  which is 
the job of the regulator. But when something's gone wrong, a business's  recognition  of the 
impact can make a real difference.
We're all inconvenienced occasionally  in our day-to-day lives, including in our dealings  with 
other people, businesses and organisations. For me to award compensation, I need to 
decide that the impact of Hiscox actions in this case was greater than just a minor 
inconvenience.
Hiscox has already acknowledged it didnt get everything right in dealing with Ms P. Its said 
sorry and it offered her £100 for the trouble it caused. In effect it was acknowledging  this 
wasnt just a matter of minor inconvenience.  I agree. But I think  its done enough and I dont 
think it would  be fair for me to require  it to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN68633445Hiscox Insurance Company Limited  has offered to pay Ms P £100. I conclude that such  an 
offer is fair compensation in the circumstances.  So my decision is that it should pay her  if it 
hasnt already done so  within 28 days of receiving Ms Ps notice of her acceptance of my 
decision.
Ms P should note that if she accepts my decision,  it will be legally binding on all parties  and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation.
If, however,  she rejects my decision, although her legal rights will remain  intact,  itll be purely 
a matter between  her and Hiscox as to whether  its offer remains open  for acceptance. 
Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after rejection of it has been 
communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6863344