K822xcomplaint
Mr R and Ms K complain  that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) unfairly refused a claim 
they made on their travel insurance following the cancellation due to bad weather of a trip 
they had booked.
background 
Mr R and Ms K planned a trip to Eastern Europe.  They booked their flights and 
accommodation through a club theyre members  of and paid for them using part of their 
balance of points  with an air miles provider  theyre  members of a reward scheme through  
which points collected  can be exchanged  for, among other things, flights  and hotel 
accommodation.
Mr R and Ms K spent around  50,000 points on their flights, plus £138, and around  106,000  
points on their accommodation. That was enough to cover the full cost, so there  was no 
direct financial  outlay  for the accommodation.
Unfortunately, due to the bad weather in the early part of 2018, their flights were cancelled  at 
the last minute  and they were unable  to travel. They were intending to be away between  28 
February and 4 March,  in part to attend an event on 1 March.  Because  of the weather, no 
flights were possible from their area until 2 March,  and in the end they didnt travel at all.
The points provider  refunded the 50,000  points  and £138 theyd paid towards their flights. 
But it didnt refund the 106,000 points used to purchase the accommodation.
So Mr R made  a claim on the travel insurance, which covers them  both and is underwritten  
by URV. They claimed £585.50  which is the amount they would have had to pay for their 
accommodation had they not used the points.  They said that was the value  theyd lost in 
losing both the chance to use the accommodation and the points theyd bought  it for.
URV refused the claim. It said Mr R and Ms K werent covered for the cost of payments 
made by air miles or similar  schemes  which included the points used to pay. 
Mr R and Ms K complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. He said they werent  insured  for 
the loss of points,  which  in any case had no monetary  value.  Mr R asked for an ombudsman 
to review the complaint. He said the policy term URV had relied  on was an unfair term and 
so unenforceable,  and was secreted away in the terms. And he said their accommodation 
had been paid for by the points provider and had a monetary value. 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld, so I issued a provisional decision  in which  I said:
The cost of the flights has been  resolved. The points provider refunded  both the 
points value and the cash Mr R and Ms K paid for the flights. All thats left at issue  in 
this complaint is the accommodation they werent  able to use, because  they couldnt 
travel. Its also not in dispute that they genuinely  couldnt travel because  of the 
weather at the time.  So what I have to decide is whether their policy entitles them  to 
be paid the cost of that accommodation  even though they paid for it in points  or 
whether URV acted  fairly  in refusing  their claim.
Ref: DRN69952512In refusing the claim, URV pointed to a provision in the policy  terms and conditions. It 
says a policy holder  is only covered if they:
Are not claiming  for the cost of Air Passenger  Duty (or equivalent), airport  
charges and booking charges, or any payments or part payment made by 
using frequent  flyer vouchers, Air Miles vouchers or other vouchers that have 
no financial  face value
URV says this exclusion means  Mr R and Ms K arent covered  because  they paid 
for their trip using, and are claiming  for, payments  made  by vouchers made up of 
points. Our investigator agreed.
Mr R says this isnt a fair term,  and has been hidden away  in the policy terms.
I dont think I need  to decide  whether or not this is a fair term, or whether it was fairly 
drawn to their attention. Thats because I dont think this exclusion applies at all in 
this case.
The exclusion isnt one of the general exclusions applicable to the whole policy.  
Instead, its to be found  in the part of the policy labelled Policy A Section 1  which is 
the section dealing with cancellations in advance (for example because  of illness,  
bereavement, or public  duties).
But Mr Rs claim  isnt made under  Policy  A Section 1. Its made under the section 
headed Policy  B Section 1  the section  dealing with travel disruption. Theres  no 
equivalent exclusion in that section.
So the exclusion URV relied  on to refuse  Mr Rs claim  simply doesnt  apply to the 
claim Mr R and Ms K made.  
URV has not therefore excluded claims for cancellation of trips paid for using airmiles 
and vouchers where the claim is for cancellation  because of disruption. If it wanted  to 
do so, it could have  done  and indeed it did so in another  part of the policy, but not 
this one.
So Mr R and Ms Ks claim isnt explicitly excluded by the policy, as URV  argued.  I 
now need to consider whether  even though theres no applicable exclusion  its 
something theyre covered for.
The relevant  section of the policy says this:
If your travel  plans are disrupted:
We will pay up to £6,000 for the cancellation  of your trip [if] after 24 hours of 
delay at the airport / port / station of your outbound  journey from the UK, 
Channel Islands or Eire you abandon the trip provided your trip is not 
less than 2 days  duration  or is a one way trip
Mr R and Ms K were  delayed  because they were  unable to fly between  28 February 
and 2 March  which is a period of delay  of more than 24 hours. Their planned trip 
was for more than 2 days. So they are covered by this section of the policy.
Ref: DRN69952513The issue  here is that they didnt pay cash for the trip  or, at least, they didnt pay 
cash for the hotel accommodation. 
Mr R and Ms Ks trip was booked through the points provider. They booked the flights  
and hotel together and paid for them all at the same time.  When they were unable to 
travel because of the weather conditions, they contacted the points provider to cancel  
the travel  and request a refund. 
The points provider  emailed Mr R to confirm it had refunded the points and money  
charged for the flights. But it said the hotel provider had refused a refund because 
the cancellation request had been made after the booking start time.  The points 
provider said that, as a result, it still had to pay the hotel provider and so couldnt 
refund Mr R and Ms Ks points. It advised  them  to contact their travel insurance 
provider, which Mr R and Ms K did.
Ive seen the email  from the points provider explaining this. Mr R and Ms K included it 
with their claim form. It confirmed that the cost of the hotel booking  was £585.50, and 
says this is the sum they should  claim on the travel  insurance. The email says that 
points dont have  any monetary value. I think its likely the points provider meant by 
this that the points cant be exchanged  for cash; clearly they have a value, in that 
they be exchanged for things that would otherwise have to be bought with money.
Mr R and Ms Ks travel insurance covers them if something goes wrong with their 
trip. So it covers medical expenses, loss of their possessions  and the costs of their 
trip if they cant travel. Like all insurance, its designed to cover financial losses  or to 
cover the cost of things  Mr R and Ms K would otherwise have to pay for, like medical 
treatment. 
Mr R and Ms K didnt pay for the hotel  costs with their own money. They exchanged 
points theyd collected as part of a reward programme for a reward in the form of a 
hotel stay. When they couldnt use that hotel stay,  they lost that reward   and when 
the points provider refused to refund the points,  they lost the chance  to exchange 
them for another reward instead. 
Even though  they didnt pay for the hotel with their own cash, therefore, they have 
lost something of value  to them. They have  lost both the reward they exchanged  for 
the points theyd earned  and the opportunity  to use those points to obtain  another  
reward.
The policy doesnt  exclude trip bought with airmiles or vouchers in this section. It 
does in another section, so URV was clearly aware  of the possibility of trips being 
paid for in this way  and chose not to exclude  it from the travel  disruption part of the 
policy.
I think, in all the circumstances, that Mr R and Ms K were insured  for the loss of their 
trip. Theyve  lost something of value  to them, and I dont think  its fair for URV to 
refuse their claim because they didnt pay for it in cash  when the policy doesnt 
require that.
As Mr R and Ms K didnt pay for the trip in cash,  though, its not straightforward to 
work out their losses. The flights have  been refunded but not the hotel costs. They 
paid for the hotel  using over 100,000  points. URV  doesnt provide points like these, 
Ref: DRN69952514and while  the points provider does allow new vouchers to be purchased  as well as 
earned, the cost of buying this many is substantially more than the value of the 
reward Mr R and Ms K exchanged them for.
So I dont  think it would  be fair to require URV to buy the equivalent  number of new 
points or to pay Mr R and Ms K the cost of purchasing them.
I think the fairest way to settle  this claim is for URV to use the value  of the 
accommodation Mr R and Ms K booked  and paid for with their points. The provider 
has confirmed the cost of that is £585.50.  Because of the disruption to their trip, Mr R 
and Ms K have lost hotel accommodation to that value and thats  the amount I think 
represents a fair settlement of this claim.  I think URV  should  pay that sum, together  
with interest running  from when the claim was made, less the policy excess.
Mr R and Ms K replied  to say that they didnt think URV had acted in good  faith in refusing 
their claim  or had misunderstood its own policy. They had received poor service in the 
handling of their claim and they thought it showed systemic problems in how URV handles  
claims they want investigated. Mr R said that he had been  put to considerable time and 
expense in pursuing the claim, and suggested  a fair resolution would be for URV to waive  
the excess in this case. 
URV agreed  that the claim should be paid. I also asked it to consider waiving the £120 
excess. URV  didnt  agree  that it would be fair to waive the excess. It accepted  that Mr R had 
initially been  given  unrealistic expectations  about  how long his claim would take to resolve, 
and offered to waive one of the two excesses (Mr R and Ms K being  subject to a £60 excess  
each). But it said it had dealt with the claim in a reasonable time,  and so didnt think it would 
be fair to waive the other excess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party disagreed with my conclusion that the claim should be paid, I see no 
reason to change  my mind about  that and so for the reasons I gave in my provisional  
decision Ill direct  URV  to pay the claim.  
Ive thought further about what the parties have said about  the excess and I think it would be 
fair in this case to waive it. URV agrees it initially gave unrealistic expectations, and has 
offered to waive half the excess. But I take Mr Rs point that hed been  put to considerable 
time and inconvenience in pursuing this claim  and I note that up to my provisional decision, 
URV continued to refuse it based  on a term that wasnt applicable to the claim.  In the 
particular circumstances  of this case,  I think  it would  be fair to waive  the excess in full.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr R and Ms K £585.50, waiving the policy  excess. 
It should add simple annual interest  of 8% running  from the date Mr R and Ms K claimed  to 
the date of settlement. If Union Reiseversicherung AG considers its required to deduct 
income tax from the interest element of my award  it may do so, but it should  give Mr R and 
Ref: DRN69952515Ms K the necessary  documentation so that they can reclaim the income tax from HMRC if 
theyre entitled to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6995251