K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mr Ls mortgage with The Governor  and Company  of the Bank  of 
Ireland (BOI). Hes unhappy  that BOI wont provide him with a detailed  breakdown  of the 
interest and capital portions of his monthly mortgage  payment.
background
Mr L brought the complaint in 2018; part of it overlapped with a complaint hed made  
previously about  the interest rate, how BOI processed a lump  sum payment he made in 
2017, and the application of fees and charges. Those matters  were addressed in a final 
decision from an ombudsman colleague in July 2018, so we didnt  revisit  them.  
The adjudicator dealing with the current complaint  only considered  the aspect relating to the 
breakdown of interest and capital in the monthly  payments.  She said that this information 
was already provided in the annual  statements,  and that BOI didnt need to do anything 
more. Mr L has asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our rules dont allow me to overturn the 
decision of a fellow ombudsman on matters weve already considered. So, like the 
adjudicator, Ive confined myself to the issue relating  to how BOI sets out the interest and 
capital elements of the monthly payment in its statements. 
Since 2015, BOIs annual mortgage statements have listed  the monthly payment due, and 
the amount of interest  charged for that month.  Armed with those two pieces of information, it 
argues that Mr L can work out for himself that the different between  the two is the amount of 
capital repaid for that month.  That seems a reasonable argument to me.
Clearly, Mr L isnt satisfied with (or possibly doesnt trust the accuracy of) the information 
BOI provides in its annual mortgage  statements. But its not within  my power to order  BOI to 
change the layout of its statements or to add information that isnt ready included. Thats a 
matter for the regulator of financial businesses, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). If the 
FCA thought BOI should provide more information (or present it differently) it would instruct it 
to do so for all customers, not just Mr L.
As to whether  the information is accurate, if Mr L has reason to believe BOI has made 
accounting mistakes, hes welcome  to arrange for his mortgage account to be audited  by a 
suitably-qualified professional. Hed have  to pay for the audit, but if it revealed errors to his 
detriment, he could  ask BOI to put them right and reimburse him the cost of the audit.
Lastly, I note Mr L has said he might wish to repay his mortgage altogether. If he does want  
to do that, he can ask BOI to provide him with a redemption statement, which will set out the 
exact amount  he needs to pay in order to clear the mortgage in full at a specific  date.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN60968602Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6096860