K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that their sauna at their guest  house wasnt  covered by The National 
Farmers Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  (NFU) home  insurance policy they had 
had since 2013.  
background
Mr and Mrs W took out home insurance with NFU in August 2013. When they received their 
renewal documentation  in July 2018 Mr W queried  with his local NFU agency whether their 
sauna was covered by the policy. Mr and Mrs W run a guest house from their home and the 
sauna is used  by their paying guests. 
NFU told Mr and Mrs W that if the sauna was used by paying  guests it would  need  to be 
covered by a commercial  policy.  NFU said that Mr and Mrs W didnt  currently  have cover for 
paying guests  to use their sauna.  
Mr and Mrs W complained to NFU. They said they had been  under  the impression  since  
inception  that theyd paid for cover so guests could use the sauna. They said the NFU 
agents that had carried  out three  site visits knew that paying  guests used  their sauna yet 
theyd been operating without cover. 
NFU investigated Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It discovered that the policy wording was 
unclear regarding whether the sauna  was covered or not. It thought that it would be difficult  
for Mr and Mrs W (and even the local NFU agent) to know, from reviewing  the paperwork, 
whether they had cover. NFUs underwriters agreed to include the cover  for the sauna until 
the next renewal  (at no additional charge)  but said that from that point it would be 
appropriate to place it under a commercial policy (which may result in a different premium). 
NFU paid Mr and Mrs W compensation of £100 for the inconvenience theyd been caused.  
NFU also sent Mr and Mrs W new policy documents in October  2018  which  included  the 
cover for the sauna and the applicable endorsement. 
Unhappy with the outcome of NFUs investigation,  Mr and Mrs W complained to this service. 
They said theyd been under an illusion  for years that theyd been covered for guests to use 
the sauna. They said they didnt  want to have to pay more  to cover the sauna once the 
current (amended) policy had elapsed and they were  unhappy  with some aspects of the 
endorsement added to the policy. Finally  they said the sauna remained closed to paying 
guests and that theyd lost trade because of it. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. He thought the steps NFU had taken in response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint were  
reasonable. He also said that NFU had offered to consider any potential loss of earnings 
theyd suffered as a result of guests not being  able to use the sauna upon production of 
documentary evidence  of the loss which he thought was fair. In respect of their complaint 
about the terms of the endorsement he said NFU was entitled to apply terms to the risks it 
accepted. 
Unhappy with our investigators  findings,  Mr and Mrs W asked for their complaint to be 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN68905672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that they were led to believe that the use of their sauna by 
their paying  guests was covered. NFU has admitted that the policy  wording was unclear  
such as its own agents would probably be unsure as to whether it was covered or not. NFU 
apologised to Mr and Mrs W, adjusted their 2018/2019 policy to include cover  for their sauna 
and paid them compensation  of £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
So whilst I accept that Mr and Mrs W were under the impression their policy covered them 
for use of their sauna by paying  guests,  Im not going to ask NFU to do anymore beyond  
what it has already done. I think NFUs  response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances because for the 2018/2019 policy  year it gave them  the 
cover they thought they had. The compensation it has paid them is in line with awards made  
by this service in similar circumstances and, had the complaint passed across my desk 
without any compensation having  been paid, its unlikely Id have awarded any more than 
£100. 
NFU included cover for the sauna up to the next renewal in August 2019  at no extra  charge. 
That also seems fair to me. NFU doesnt provide  cover under its domestic  policies for 
saunas used commercially. But it made  an exception for Mr and Mrs W because it accepted 
that its policy terms were unclear. Whilst Mr and Mrs W may have  been  under the illusion  
they were covered since 2013 they have not suffered  any loss as a result of having not 
been. NFU has told us that if theyd had to have  made a claim at any point it wouldve been 
considered under the usual terms and conditions. 
I cant make  NFU continue to offer cover for the sauna under  the home insurance policy at 
no extra  charge as Mr and Mrs W would  like. Its up to individual  insurers  what terms they 
offer cover on, what  risks they are willing to insure  and what price to charge for doing so. 
Providing NFU treats  all of its customers in similar  circumstances fairly  this service doesnt  
interfere in those  decisions. NFU offered  cover  until the next renewal   that seems fair in the 
circumstances. And that gave Mr and Mrs W about 10 months  to find alternative  cover.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W didnt like certain aspects of the sauna endorsement applied 
to their policy. NFU has said that if it had insured  the sauna  on a commercial basis then this 
is the endorsement that wouldve been  applied in those circumstances. So Im satisfied that 
that the addition of the endorsement to Mr and Mrs Ws policy  mid-term means they are no 
worse off than they wouldve been  if NFUs policy had been clear enough to let them know 
there was no cover,  meaning theyd have  to  have sought a commercial policy. And Im also 
satisfied that the endorsement formed part of the terms  of cover for the sauna offered by 
NFU under their domestic home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs W have  not been  financially disadvantaged as a result of NFU saying it cant  
cover the sauna  under  their domestic  policy for commercial  use. Thats because they never 
paid for it to be covered domestically but if they had needed to made a claim it wouldve 
been considered and they have had the benefit  of 10 months free cover. Commercial use of 
the sauna should always have been insured on a different basis, which would always have 
likely generated an increased premium  and will need to be arranged going  forward  should  
Mr and Mrs W still wish their commercial guests to be able to use it. 
Ref: DRN68905673Mr and Mrs W say they have  lost trade  because  the sauna has remained closed (I 
understand that they werent happy  complying with certain aspects of the endorsement).  
NFU has said it will consider  compensation for lost earnings up on production of the 
necessary documentary proof. That seems fair to me. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6890567