K820x#14complaint
Miss L says The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss L bought the policy in 2009  at the same  time as taking a mortgage. RBS cant say how 
Miss L made  her application. Miss L says it was by phone. She was employed at the time as 
a business development manager and had been there over a year. Shes told us she was 
entitled to less than 12 but at least six months  full pay as sick pay or redundancy pay and 
had £20,000 in savings she couldve used to pay her mortgage if she couldnt  work. Shes 
also told us of a health issue she had treatment  for in the year before the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for Miss L for unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay £1,414  a month towards  Miss Ls 
mortgage related  costs  and RBS says it cost £48.81  a month  at the time.  
RBS has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account started  in 2009. 
Miss Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Miss Ls representative says:
RBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss L wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Miss Ls representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  RBS should have told Miss L about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means RBS should  have explained  the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss L and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Miss L received was misleading.  These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators 
Ref: DRN63517412opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ls. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions in 
s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
RBS, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN63517413The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so RBS was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Miss Ls complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If RBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether RBS gave Miss L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss L suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss L and 
RBS, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss L know  she had a choice?
Ref: DRN63517414RBS had to make it clear  the PPI was optional. Miss L has said she had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included as part of the package  with her mortgage. Ive considered  
this carefully.
Miss Ls mortgage application  form said she wanted  to apply for unemployment insurance. 
From what  Miss L has said, I think this form was completed by RBS during a phone  call with 
Miss L. I dont know exactly what was said during in the call, but the wording  of the form - 
which will have been sent to Miss L - indicates cover  was something Miss L wanted rather 
than something she had to have. 
Also, as part of the mortgage application  process,  a form was sent to Miss L to sign. This 
said it had been  marked to reflect the decisions shed made  about  insurance cover  and it 
said if she no longer  wanted any of the insurances  she could initial the form to indicate this. 
Miss L signed the form. I think  the wording of the form gives an indication  that the PPI cover 
was optional and had been included before Miss L had indicated  during the call that she had 
decided to have  it.
On balance, I think it likely the preferences expressed on the mortgage application reflect 
preferences expressed  by Miss L during  the call in which RBS took down the details of her 
application. 
I say this bearing in mind  also that the mortgage offer,  sent to Miss L later but before the 
mortgage or PPI cover  started, made  it clear that no insurance had to be taken with RBS - 
and made  it clear that the only insurance Miss L had to take for the mortgage was buildings  
insurance. It also described the PPI as optional insurance.
Miss L hasnt said anything to make  me think she was pressured  into opting for the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  and in the light of all Ive said above, I think its more  likely 
Miss L knew  the policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did RBS provide advice?
RBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Taking into account also what  Miss L has 
said, Im persuaded  RBS didnt provide advice. This means RBS didnt have to check  if the 
PPI was suitable for Miss L. Instead,  it had to give her sufficient, appropriate  and timely 
information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss L was given a broad description of what  the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is, it would help protect her payments if she were unable  to work 
due to unemployment) and of the approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I 
think its unlikely Miss L wouldve taken the policy without any sense of what  it was for and of 
how much  it might cost. But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether RBS 
gave sufficient information about  the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Miss L agreed  to take the policy. 
So I dont  think RBS gave  Miss L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
Ref: DRN63517415attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ls representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Ls representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss L about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have gone further and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Miss L has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude RBS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did RBSs shortcomings have on Miss L? To what extent did she suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found RBS didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Miss L. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would have still 
taken the policy,  had RBS done  things properly. Miss L says she wouldnt have  taken it and 
believes I should presume  this to be the case given the significant  failings identified  above. 
Ive considered the representations of both sides and the evidence  relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss L had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  As Ive found above, she chose to take this policy. 
So I consider its reasonable to conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by 
this type of insurance. But she made  this decision based on incomplete information. So what 
she thought she was getting  is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a 
relevant consideration when determining if she has suffered  any loss or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Miss L knew she would have to pay something for 
the policy, Ive nothing to show that RBS told her the exact  premium  at the point she applied.  
That said,  Miss L was told the cost before  the policy started  it was set out in the mortgage 
offer for example,  so if this had been  significantly at odds with her expectations  at the sale,  
she mightve raised that with RBS at the time or reconsidered her decision. Instead  she paid 
Ref: DRN63517416the policy premium for a number of years. Overall, Im not persuaded Miss L wouldve found 
the cost unacceptable if shed been  told the exact  figure when she agreed to the PPI.
In addition, Im not persuaded  RBS made  clear  exactly what Miss L would get if she made a 
successful claim. But I think its unlikely her expectations about what  the policy  would pay in 
the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient to meet her mortgage payment) were significantly 
different to what the policy actually did. Possibly  the most significant  differences  between 
what Miss L thought  she had bought  and what  she actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Miss L was 
not a permanent employee;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss L pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss L from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen evidence  to suggest Miss L would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  she was in permanent  employment, 
for example, and she didnt take disability  cover so those terms arent  relevant  here.  So, I 
think Miss L still had some good reasons  to take the policy.
RBS may not have  told Miss L any claim she made would be limited to 12 months. This may 
have differed from what she expected and mightve hoped  for. But Miss Ls redundancy pay 
was less than 12 months  pay (which  isnt surprising, given shed been in her role less than 
two years). Also, the policy wouldve paid out on top of Miss Ls redundancy pay anyway.  In 
those circumstances,  I consider it likely Miss L wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 
12 monthly payments  would benefit  her. The policy allowed multiple claims and, by helping  
with mortgage  costs, the benefit wouldve helped make it less likely Miss Ls home  would be 
put at risk  and at what could be a difficult and uncertain time if she were unemployed. It 
wouldve also helped Miss L keep intact, or free to meet  other liabilities, the savings  shed 
chosen to keep, rather than to use to reduce the mortgage, at the start.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Miss L wouldve still taken the policy. It was sufficiently close to what its likely she 
thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help her manage the 
consequences if she were  made  redundant. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely 
than not she wouldve taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Ls representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN63517417the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss L would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss L believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss L in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Miss L wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken the PPI 
had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude RBS should pay Miss L compensation,  as that would put her in a better  position 
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Miss L thinks  RBS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of RBSs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why RBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  RBS gave Miss L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2009 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ls representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find RBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Miss L and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find RBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss L in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN63517418my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6351741