K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as ClearAccount  at the time and 
now trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) gave him a Safety Net facility without carrying out 
proper creditworthiness  and affordability  checks in 2014.
Mr S in his complaint  form described this type of borrowing  as money  from SNC  which  was a 
payday lender.  I address this aspect  in the decision.
background
SNC gave  Mr S this facility when it was regulated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
(FCA). And the relevant  regulatory rules in place at the time were set out in the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC)  section of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Mr S approached SNC  for a Safety Net facility in 2014. This was not a series of payday  
loans as described by Mr S in his complaint form. This was a running  credit account where a 
consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be deposited into 
their bank account once  their account balance fell below  a safety  net amount of the 
customers choosing. In April 2014  Mr S was given a facility  with a £250  limit. In the 
subsequent three months the limit was increased,  until it reached £425  in July 2014.  
SNC was given read-only access to Mr S nominated bank account. SNC does request that 
this account be the main  account and here it seems that Mr S allowed access to the account 
into which his salary  was paid. In fact it was a joint account with his partner  Ms X. 
SNC would have used the read-only access to make the initial  lending  decision and 
subsequent reviews of Mr S financial position and to identify times to remove the 
repayments using  the continuous  payment  authority Mr S would have  given it. Ill refer to 
this as the CPA.   
Mr S repaid  until July 2014. An outstanding  balance of about £595 remains. No repayments 
appear to have been made since July 2014.
Mr S complained to SNC in November 2017.  
SNCs response letter, in summary,  said:
SafetyNet Credit is a running account  credit product with a monthly minimum 
repayment and no fixed repayment date. In many ways SafetyNet Credit  is akin to a 
bolt on synthetic overdraft, saving  the vast majority of customers  significant sums 
compared to what they would be charged  for equivalent borrowing  on an 
unauthorised overdraft, but the contractual minimum monthly repayment structure is 
similar to that for a credit card. 
Furthermore, our authorisation from the FCA makes it explicit  that we are not 
authorised to provide High Cost Short  Term Credit. As a provider of running account 
credit, the requirements laid down in CONC for affordability assessments are 
different to that of payday loans
 
Ref: DRN67085932Mr S brought his complaint to this service early  in 2018. He includes reference to the fact 
that he had a County Court  Judgment  CCJ  but this was after the lending by SNC  ceased 
in July 2014.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and SNC had told us. He thought the checks 
SNC carried out before granting this facility were proportionate and so didnt think Mr S 
complaint should  be upheld.  Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators assessment and asked 
for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.  So it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr S says SNC shouldnt  have given him his Safety Net facility.  SNC provide a facility  similar 
to a credit  card or overdraft  this means it provides a limit and the customer can withdraw 
money either  in one lump sum or over multiple  transactions. 
The main  selling point  of opening a facility with SNC is it monitors  the customers  bank 
account and when it drops below a set limit it will top it up from the credit facility  held. 
Theres the option to make  manual  withdrawals.  
Mr S credit agreement says that interest  is capped for 40 days and he had to repay  at least 
a minimum repayment (5% of the principal and interest, or £20 whichever  is greater).
In order for SNC to check  the affordability of the facility  it arranged to use the read  only 
access to the customers  online  banking statements to check  at least 30 days  of 
transactions. Often it checks  an excerpt of the customers credit  file. 
Mr S was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So overall I think  that this means  the 
checks SNC carried out had to provide  enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr S 
would be able to both service and then repay  his facility within a reasonable period of time 
and in a sustainable fashion.  This was defined by regulators guidance as being  repayments  
from income or savings,  while meeting other financial commitments and without having  to 
borrow further. 
SNC says it reviewed Mr Ss bank transaction data for the three months prior to the facility 
being approved.  And having done so it was satisfied  Mr S was able to meet the SNC  
commitments as well as his own. It combined  this information with credit  checks  and decided 
that Mr S would be able to maintain  the facility he was offered.
Mr S says he was struggling  at the time and his credit file in particular would have shown 
this. I have seen  the results that SNC got. Those do suggest that Mr S had had some 
problems repaying  credit from other lenders  but I cant say that this alone  would  prevent  
SNC from agreeing his Safety Net facility, especially if his bank statements didnt show  he 
was struggling. And having looked at those I cant say there were signs that things were 
spiralling out of control. I can only look at the information available to SNC  when  it agreed  
the facility  not at other things Mr S knew about  (or knows about  now) that he didnt share 
with SNC.
Ref: DRN67085933Ive also looked  at Mr Ss bank account  during the period  he held his facility,  as SCN had 
access to those too. But having  carefully thought about everything provided and weighed  
this against what  Ive seen on Mr Ss actual bank statements, I do think  SNCs checks  were 
proportionate taking all the circumstances into account.
Mr S wasnt  given a payday loan where  he had to repay all of what he borrowed  plus the 
interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where  there was an expectation 
that hed repay what he borrowed  plus the interest  due within a reasonable period of time. 
The guidance doesnt set out what a reasonable period of time is. So I think  its important to 
note that a reasonable period of time will always be dependent on the circumstances of the 
individual case. 
In this case, I think Mr S bank statements  in the period leading  up to his facility being  
approved  showed that he did have enough  disposable income to both service  and repay  a 
facility of between  £250 and £425  within a reasonable period  of time. 
Mr S disagrees. He says SNC shouldve seen that hed had a default with another lender 
and outstanding debts with other lenders. But this default was from a number of months 
previously. And I dont  agree  that this means  Mr S shouldnt have been lent to under any 
circumstances. 
Equally while I can see that Mr S did have some outstanding credit commitments, the credit 
check and Mr Ss account transaction history  doesnt  suggest that these commitments  
meant that his Safety Net facility was unaffordable  or unsustainable  bearing in mind  he 
wasnt contractually obliged to repay it completely  when he next got paid. 
I accept that Mr Ss financial position  has worsened  and as SNC continued monitoring       
Mr Ss account, I think it had an obligation to step in when it saw this. But I think that SNC 
did that here. This is because SNC stopped  Mr S from being able to draw down further funds 
and froze the interest on his existing  balance when Mr S experienced difficulty repaying  what 
he owed. So I think that SNC did act responsibly  and I dont think  that Mr Ss eventual  
difficulty in repaying  his Safety Net facility  means that it shouldnt have been given to him in 
the first place.
Overall and having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I ask Mr S to accept or reject my 
decision by 25 July 2019
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6708593