K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) offered him 
unsuitable loans.  
Mr O wants Satsuma to refund the interest that hes paid on the loans and apply the refund 
to the outstanding balance on his final loan. Mr O wants Satsuma to remove  details about 
the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr O took out four instalment  loans with Satsuma. A summary of the loans is as follows:
No. Date of Loan Loan amount
Term Date Repaid
1 September 2016
£500 13 weeks 09/01/2017
2 October 2016 £800 39 weeks 09/01/2017
3 February 2017 £200 3 months 20/04/2017
4 April 2017 £1,000 9 months N/a
Mr O says Satsuma  shouldnt  have  agreed  the loans as he was in a poor financial situation 
at the time. Mr O says that Satsuma shouldve seen  a number  of defaults on his credit file.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Os complaint be upheld.  She thought that 
Satsumas checks went far enough before agreeing loans one and two. And that based on 
the information that Mr O gave to Satsuma these two loans appeared affordable.
By loan three, the adjudicator thought that Satsuma shouldve been asking Mr O about his 
other short term loans.  And before agreeing loan four, the adjudicator  thought that Satsuma 
shouldve tried to independently verify the financial  information that Mr O had given. 
However, the adjudicator thought that even with better checks, it wouldve been reasonable 
of Satsuma to still agree  to lend.
Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation. Mr O said he was making regular 
payments to people at the time of the loans which indicated that he wasnt  managing  his 
money well. Mr O said that it was obvious  from his bank  statements that he had a gambling 
problem. 
Mr O also said that he had a number of defaults  on his credit file, particularly around the time 
of loans three and four.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded to uphold this complaint in 
part.
Satsuma was required to lend responsibly. It needed to check that Mr O could afford  to 
repay each  loan before agreeing to lend. There wasnt  a set list of checks  that it had to carry 
out. But any checks had to be proportionate to things such as the amount to be repaid and 
any borrowing history.
Ref: DRN64459812loans one and two
Mr O told Satsuma that his monthly income  was around £2,770. Mr O declared  expenses 
that ranged between  £1,700 and £1,800. 
Given the relatively modest  amount that Mr O was due to repay  each month on loans one 
and two, I thought  that Satsumas checks were proportionate.  
It was reasonable  of Satsuma to rely on the information to decide that Mr O could afford  the 
repayments on loans  one and two. It followed that I didnt uphold  this aspect of Mr Os 
complaint.
loan three
The credit check that Satsuma carried out before agreeing loan three showed that Mr O still 
owed money to other short  term lenders.  I thought this shouldve  reasonably  prompted  
Satsuma to ask some  more questions  than it did. 
But even if Satsuma had added Mr Os other  short term loans to his declared outgoings, it 
wouldve still appeared to Satsuma that he could afford to repay loan three from his 
disposable income.
Although Mr O had defaults  on his own credit  file, I could see that the most recent of these  
was from early 2015. Satsuma said that the checks it carried  out didnt  reveal any payday 
loan defaults within the previous 12 months.  So I couldnt  reasonably  say that Satsuma 
shouldve tried to verify the financial information  that Mr O gave by asking to see evidence 
such as bank statements. This meant that Satsuma wouldnt  have known about Mr Os 
gambling problem  unless hed made it aware  of it.
loan four
This is where I provisionally reached  a different  decision to the adjudicator. By loan four,    
Mr O had been borrowing  regularly from Satsuma. Mr O took on loan four shortly after 
repaying loan three.  I thought these factors shouldve alerted Satsuma to the possibility that 
Mr O might have become dependent on short term loans.
I considered that it wouldve been  reasonable to expect Satsuma to independently verify the 
information that Mr O gave about his finances.  Satsuma couldve done  this in a variety of 
ways. I used Mr Os bank  statements to decide  what better checks  wouldve shown.
I thought that if Satsuma  had carried out a proportionate check  before loan four, it wouldve 
decided that Mr O couldnt afford to take on further debt because he was gambling regularly.
Mr O spent more  than £1,450 on gambling transactions in the month  leading  up to taking out 
loan four. This meant that together with Mr Os regular outgoings and short term credit 
commitments of around £2,190 he didnt have enough disposable  income to afford the 
monthly repayments of £222.
If Satsuma had been aware  of Mr Os gambling problems, as a responsible  lender, I didnt 
think it wouldve agreed to lend. 
Ref: DRN64459813Mr O still owed money on loan four to Satsuma. I thought it was fair to allow  Satsuma to 
apply any refund against the outstanding balance if it wanted.
further submissions
Satsuma agreed to my provisional decision. Mr O said that he didnt have anything more  to 
add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Satsuma agrees to put things right in 
line with my provisional decision and Mr O doesnt want me to consider anything further, I 
consider its reasonable to make my final decision along the same lines.
putting things right
To put things right, Satsuma should:
Refund any interest and charges Mr O paid on loan four;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest or charges on loan four;
If it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan four 
and pay Mr O any remaining balance (if there is any) **; and 
Remove any negative  information about loan four from Mr Os credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs require Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr O a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Satsuma  
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  principal balance,  it must do so after 
taking off the tax.
** If after carrying out the above steps theres  still a principal balance due to pay, I remind  
Satsuma of its obligation to treat any repayment  offer that Mr O might make,  sympathetically  
and reasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement I require  
Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) to put things right by doing  as 
Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN64459814Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6445981