K821x#15complaint
Ms P has complained that Barclays Bank plc (Barclays)  mis-sold  her an Additions  Plus 
packaged bank  account in 2005.  
background
I attach my provisional decision of 28 January 2019, which forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold Ms Ps complaint.  I invited  both 
parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision.  
Following this, Barclays responded  to say it agreed  with my provisional decision and that it 
would pay redress to Ms P. And Ms P didnt provide anything further for me to think about.    
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its pleasing to see that Barclays has agreed  with my provisional  decision. And Im glad that 
it has agreed to pay Ms P redress. As neither party has provided  anything further for me to 
think about, I see no reason to change the conclusions or the award  I made in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 28 January 2019,  Im 
upholding Ms Ps complaint.
Barclays Bank plc should pay Ms P compensation in line with the instructions set out in my 
provisional decision of 28 January 2019.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63397932COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms P has complained  that Barclays Bank plc (Barclays)  mis-sold her an Additions Plus packaged  
bank account in 2005. 
background
Ms P also initially complained that Barclays mis-sold her an Additions account sometime before 
December 1997. But Barclays accepted that it mis-sold that account and refunded all the fees Ms P 
paid, plus interest in order to put thigs right. 
As this is what  wed typically tell a bank to do if we were to find that a packaged  account  was mis-
sold, weve not looked  into the sale of that account and our investigation has been limited to the sale 
of the Additions Plus account.
Our adjudicators looked  into Ms Ps complaint  and eventually  reached the conclusion that Additions 
Plus account  hadnt been mis-sold to Ms P. Ms P disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
her complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments and Ive provisionally decided what I think is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle  
complaints about packaged  bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Ms Ps complaint.  
Having carefully thought about Ive seen  so far, Im intending to uphold Ms Ps complaint.  Id like to 
explain why.
Barclays has said that the account was recommended  to Ms P. So this means that it had to make an 
appropriate recommendation to her, by taking  adequate steps to ensure  that the selected  account 
was a reasonable  fit for her circumstances. 
 
I havent been  provided with much detail  on what wouldve been Barclays sales process for this type 
of account. Although Barclays has said the upgrade  was sold over the phone, it hasnt provided me 
with a recording of the call (this isnt unexpected given how long ago the sale took place),  or a script 
that its advisors might have used, or even some form of sales process document. So I dont know 
how far Barclays looked into Ms Ps circumstances before it recommended the Additions Plus account 
to her.
In any event, Ive looked at Ms Ps circumstances and her actions since upgrading and thought  about 
whether its more likely than not that Barclays made a fair recommendation to her. Im mindful that the 
main difference between the package on the Additions account which Ms P was already on (and 
which Barclays has already accepted was mis-sold) and the Additions Plus account which  Barclays 
recommended, was that the Additions Plus account  included annual worldwide travel insurance. 
So it seems  to me that, in this case, the recommendation  of the Additions Plus account would only 
really have been fair and appropriate if the advisor  had established that Ms P had a clear  and 
identifiable need for an annual travel insurance  policy. Ms P says she didnt  travel. Barclays says this 
is untrue and it has referred to transactions on Ms Ps statements showing a trip within Europe in 
2007. But even if Ms P did travel in 2007, I dont think that this demonstrates a need for an annual  
worldwide travel insurance policy when  Barclays recommended the Additions Plus account in 2005.
Ref: DRN63397933Ive also seen  what  Barclays  has said about the Additions Plus account  having  a better  level of 
breakdown cover than the Additions account. And Ms P used this benefit on two occasions. But I 
dont think that this means the recommendation of the Additions  Plus account was fair. I firstly  say this 
is because I cant see that Barclays  ever established a need for this level of cover  or even that Ms P 
wanted it. 
I think  its just as if not more likely that Ms P inadvertently ended up using this service  on a couple  of 
occasions, without being made aware that this was something she was paying extra for. It seems to 
me that Barclays is speculatively relying on this usage in order  to justify  its recommendation  without 
having any real basis or evidence for concluding  that this benefit is what the Additions Plus account 
was sold for. 
Im also mindful  that given Barclays has already accepted that the Additions account  was mis-sold 
(and so accepts that Ms P should be placed in the position  she would be in if she was on a free 
account up until November  2005), I have to think  about whether Ms P wouldve  agreed to switching 
from a free account to one costing £12  just to get a slightly better  level of breakdown  cover  
especially as Barclays hasnt persuaded me that Ms P had a want  or need for annual  worldwide travel 
insurance. I dont think that Ms P wouldve done so if any possible recommendation on this basis had 
been clearly explained to her.    
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I think that there were shortcomings  in Barclays assessment of 
Ms Ps demands and needs. And I think that this resulted  in Barclays recommending an account  that 
wasnt an appropriate fit for Ms Ps circumstances.  
In conclusion, having carefully thought about everything provided,  Im intending to say that I dont 
think Barclays recommendation of the Additions Plus account to Ms P was fair or appropriate.  And as 
I dont think Ms P wouldve  paid the account fees she did if Barclays hadnt made  an inappropriate 
recommendation, it follows that I think Ms P lost out because  of what Barclays did wrong and that it 
should now put things  right.
what I think Barclays should do to put things right for Ms P.
To put matters right,  Im intending to say Barclays should put Ms P back into the position  she 
wouldve have been in, if she hadnt  taken  out the Additions Plus account. Im mindful  that Barclays 
has already  accepted Ms P shouldve  been (and has already placed her) in the position shed be in if 
shed had a free account  up until the point she was sold the Additions Plus account. 
So with this in mind,  in this case, Im intending to say that Barclays  should:
refund and pay to Ms P all of the (packaged account and feature store pack) fees she paid 
after the Additions  Plus upgrade; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on each fee from the date Ms P paid it to the date of 
settlement;
If Barclays is able to work out any additional savings  Ms P has made from holding the account  and it 
can show these calculations to her, it may, if it wants, deduct this additional saving  from any 
compensation that is paid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must  give Ms P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im intending to uphold  Ms Ps complaint and say that   Barclays Bank 
UK PLC should pay Ms P redress as set out above.
Ref: DRN63397934If Barclays or Ms P have  anything further to add before I issue my final decision, they should  ensure  
anything they send reaches me by 11 February 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6339793