K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services has treated him unfairly by increasing  the sum it requires  him to pay upon  the 
termination of the hire purchase agreement through which  he acquired a vehicle.
background
Mr M tells us he took out the hire purchase  agreement in November 2016. He says that he 
lost his job in early 2018 and found  himself  unable to pay the monthly  instalments.  Following  
discussions with Alphera Mr M states he decided to voluntarily terminate (VT) the 
agreement. And that he was given a settlement  figure of £8,206.90. He says before he was 
able to enter into an arrangement to pay this figure Alphera had defaulted  his account and 
told him hed have to pay £10,787.22.
Alphera told us it had issued a default  notice in July 2018 when the account was five months 
in arrears. Following discussions with Mr M about  how the agreement could be terminated it 
said a settlement figure of £8,206.90 for the VT of the agreement  had been  sent to him. This 
had been valid only until 28 August  2018.  When this sum hadnt been paid it said the vehicle 
had been recovered and sold. And on 3 December it said a statement of liability  was issued  
requiring Mr M to pay £10,787.22. Alphera said it accepted that it hadnt responded to an 
email sent by Mr M on 4 December regarding a payment plan and in view of this it was 
prepared to allow him to settle a lower sum of £7,667.22 over 15 months. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said she thought 
that whilst  Alphera  had provided  poor customer service this hadnt caused  Mr M to lose out 
on the terms of the VT. She accepted that Alphera  hadnt replied to Mr M when  he queried 
the effect the VT would  have on the default.  And when hed told Alphera  that hed misplaced 
the VT form it had sent a replacement form even though it had already terminated the 
account. But she said she felt that Alphera  had made clear  the VT form had needed to be 
returned by 28 August  2018. And that it was fair for it to act in line with the default  notice  
issued in July 2018. She said Alphera  had subsequently  offered  Mr M the chance to pay a 
rebated amount of £7,667.22 over 15 months.  But when hed indicated hed not be able to 
do so it had advised him that the account would be passed to external collection agents and 
hed be required to pay the full amount of £10,787.22.  As this was in line with Alpheras 
usual policy  she felt it wasnt treating Mr M any differently to its other customers.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with this outcome and maintained that he didnt think it was fair he 
should have to pay the additional amount above the VT quote. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr M experienced financial difficulties and I can see they came at a time when 
there were major changes in his personal  life. So I can understand that this wouldve caused 
him additional worry.
Ref: DRN65420842Mr Ms complaint has several aspects  but I think it can fairly  be summarised by saying that 
he feels that due to poor communication from Alphera hes suffered a financial loss over 
£2,500.
In dealing with the various  elements of Mr Ms complaint Ill explain our approach to such  
matters and how they impact on my final decision. Wed expect any business to treat a 
customer in financial difficulty fairly but what this requires a business to do varies from case 
to case. And its important  to note that it doesnt necessarily require interest  to be suspended 
or contractual payments  to be reduced.
Our investigator set out a comprehensive timeline  of events in her view so Ill not repeat all 
of this here as the parties have seen it. But Ive seen from Alpheras notes that it issued 
notices of arrears before  a default  notice  was sent to Mr M in July 2018. This notice required 
Mr M to pay the arrears before 7 August 2018. Mr M then got in touch  with Alphera and 
discussed options regarding the termination of the agreement. As a result  of those 
discussions Mr M indicated he wished to VT the agreement and Alphera then provided a 
settlement quotation.  This required Mr M to return a VT form by 28 August 2018 and pay 
£8,206.90. Although I can see that an arrangement for this sum to be paid over 12 
instalments was also discussed.
Unfortunately, it seems Mr M mislaid  the VT forms and as a result of this the settlement date 
passed without  the sums  due being paid. And Alphera defaulted the account and terminated 
the agreement. I can understand why Mr M thought  the intended VT would have the effect of 
suspending the default and I think Alphera could  have  been clearer on this aspect. And this 
situation was further complicated  as Alphera  later sent a replacement VT form (giving the 
impression that VT was still an option) when it had already  terminated  the agreement. It 
seems the vehicle was recovered in early October 2018 and sold the next month. And 
shortly afterwards Alphera issued a liability statement  in the sum of £10,787.22.
As Mr M is querying  the difference in the settlement figures hes been  given I think  its helpful 
if I briefly explain how these can vary dependent upon the manner in which the agreement is 
terminated. Briefly  summarised, Mr M was entitled  to VT the hire purchase agreement once 
half the scheduled payments had been  repaid. This would also have meant the vehicle being 
returned to Alphera. But in order to do this hed have needed both to pay off the arrears and 
whatever balance was required to make  up 50% of payments.
Its also possible for a consumer to fully settle  an agreement early  and retain  the vehicle. If a 
consumer opts for this they receive  a rebate of the future interest they wouldve otherwise 
have paid had the agreement run its full course. But in view of Mr Ms financial difficulties it 
seems this was never a viable option.
It seems  to me that there are two separate considerations  which need to be taken into 
account in these circumstances. The default notice in July 2018 required Mr M to settle the 
arrears by 7 August. Its clear Mr M thought that by opting to VT the agreement this would 
have the effect  of postponing the default. And in reality thats what  happened.  But 
unfortunately because Mr M missed  the settlement date for the VT this had a knock on 
effect. The VT settlement  required  Mr M to pay by 28 August 2018 and when he didnt this 
led to the default being  applied and the agreement terminated. This meant that in line with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement the full settlement figure  became  payable  not just 
the VT figure.
Ref: DRN65420843I understand this would be upsetting  for Mr M as he obviously believed he was in 
negotiations with Alphera about the VT. But the fact remains that as he didnt  comply  with 
the time limits for the VT or the default Alphera was entitled to terminate the agreement.
Mr M has told us if Alphera hadnt  terminated  the agreement hed have gone ahead with the 
VT but whilst  I dont  doubt Mr Ms intentions to do so Ive not seen information which 
suggests this was a realistic option. Ill explain why Ive reached this view.
Ive seen nothing  that suggests  hed have been  able to pay the lump  sum of over £8,000 
immediately. If hed been able to Im sure he would have done so but the bank statements 
hes provided dont  indicate such a sum was available to him. So at best it seems he would 
have had to enter into a payment arrangement. And I can see that such  an arrangement  
payable over 12 months was discussed.  That too seems unrealistic as it wouldve potentially  
meant payments  of over £650  per month  which  is more than the contractual  monthly  
payments Mr M was indicating he couldnt afford.
And later, when  Alphera made an offer in its final response letter which  wouldve required 
Mr M to settle the agreement by paying  a sum of £7,667.22 over 15 months he indicated  
hed not be able to afford  this due to additional  family commitments. This offer was in itself 
generous as such settlement figures  are usually based on a rebate of interest following the 
repayment of capital. Mr M said he could probably only afford  £150  per month so this would 
have potentially taken  over four years to pay in full. So Im unable  to say it was unfair for 
Alphera to want  to include interest  if the sum wasnt going to be repaid in the stipulated 
period.
Mr M has suggested he mightve been able to get assistance from family  and friends  but Ive 
not seen anything to show this was feasible. If it had been Id have expected him to be able 
to accept Alpheras latest offer.
Wed normally expect  a business to default an account which  was in arrears of between 
three and six months. As Mr Ms account was around five months in arrears  when  defaulted 
its more probable than not that if Alphera  hadnt defaulted the agreement  at this time it 
wouldve only postponed  the inevitable. And that wouldnt  have been  fair to Mr M as it 
wouldve meant the date of the default  being removed from his credit  file being been  put 
back.
In summary,  Mr M was correctly notified of the proposed default and the consequences of 
not settling arrears by the date indicated. He also knew the date by which  the VT form had to 
be returned and the terms which would apply.  In neither case  did he comply with the time 
limits he was given. Whilst the level of service provided by Alphera wasnt  always  
satisfactory I dont think this has had any material effect on whats  happened.  Theres  no 
information that Mr M wouldve been able to settle the agreement  in any of the ways which 
wouldve entitled him to take advantage  of the VT or early settlement discount  he was 
offered.  
And by later agreeing to a further  reduced  figure  payable over a longer period Alphera has 
gone beyond anything it was required to do under the terms of the agreement. In those 
circumstances I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable to require it to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN65420844Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Stephen Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6542084