K820x#14complaint
Mrs J has complained about Covea Insurance plcs handling of her car insurance policy.
Reference to Covea includes their agents.
background
Mrs J took out her car insurance policy with Covea in June 2018. She applied online through 
a comparison website  and took out the policy through  a broker.
In October  2018, Mrs Js car was stolen and she claimed on her policy.  When  investigating 
the claim Covea discovered that Mrs Js car was modified. Covea said had they known the 
car was modified  they would never have offered her insurance. Covea voided  the policy 
(treated as though it never came into existence), didnt pay Mrs Js claim  and refunded her 
premium.
Mrs J complained but Covea didnt uphold  it. Mrs J didn't think that was reasonable so she 
brought her complaint  to us. One of our investigators looked  into it. He felt that Coveas 
decision was reasonable. As Mrs J didnt agree with our investigator,  the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mrs J, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain  why.
In her complaint, Mrs J has made a number of detailed  points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Covea have dealt with Mrs J in a fair and reasonable way.
I have seen Coveas  underwriting criteria. Each insurer  sets their own underwriting  criteria 
which are the rules they follow  to determine whether or not they will provide someone  with 
cover. Coveas rules  say that they wont provide insurance to anyone where the car being 
insured has been  modified with a body kit. Mrs Js car had been  modified with a body kit. Im 
therefore satisfied  that if Covea  knew from the outset that Mrs Js car was modified they 
wouldnt have insured her. Mrs J said she doesnt  believe  thats  the case  especially as 
Covea havent  shown her any evidence to that effect. But as our investigator  explained,  an 
insurers underwriting rules are confidential  and business sensitive,  so its not something that 
is disclosed. But I have  been shown a copy and Im satisfied that Covea wouldnt have 
insured Mrs J.
Covea have suggested that Mrs J not telling them about her car being modified amounted to, 
what is known in the insurance industry,  a careless  misrepresentation.  And theres specific 
legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  
that sets out what  insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers may void the policy 
and refuse  all claims if they wouldnt have provided  cover had the correct information been 
given by the policyholder  when applying for the policy. Where  that happens the insurer  must  
return the premium, which is what Covea have done. 
Ref: DRN61248722In Mrs Js case, Ive been shown  the question she was asked on the comparison website 
when she took out her policy.  She was asked:  Has the car been modified, adapted and/or 
fitted with any optional extras such as changes to the bodywork, engine or wheels?. She 
answered no. 
In her letter to us in May 2019, Mrs J said that the car was bought for her by her husband in 
June 2015. And it was modified by the business  that sold the car. Mrs J said: As my car was 
bought as new from [the company that modified it] with only 8 miles delivery mileage as new 
this did not suggest to me that anything was modified on my car. I took out the insurance and I 
answered to the best of my knowledge and believe what  I answered  was correct and I totally  
stand by this.  Mrs J accepted that when she was asked on the comparison website if the car 
was modified she answered no. 
The business that sold Mrs Js husband  the car said that they customise cars depending  on 
their customers  requirements.  And they customised Mrs Js car with a body kit and various  
other modifications. I understand from this that those modifications were made on Mrs Js 
husbands request.  Mrs J has also told us that when she first insured her car in 2015,  her 
husband arranged  the insurance for her and he had declared the car had been modified.  
Mrs J said I take modifications to mean a different engine to original or anything  that would 
enhance the performance of the car. What was on my car was pure cosmetic!  But the 
question asked on the comparison website said modifications included  changes  to the 
bodywork.  So, given  Mrs J believed the changes to her car were  cosmetic I think she should 
have taken more  care and she should have disclosed that.  
I also note that Mrs J said when her husband  took out the insurance  for her in 2015 he 
disclosed that the car was modified. The insurance in 2015  was taken out through  a different 
broker and insurer. As is usual practice,  I think Mrs J would have been sent policy  
documentation in 2015 by her then insurer that would have confirmed the details of her policy. 
And the documentation  would have confirmed that her car was modified. Mrs J said that when 
her policy renewed, I think she means in 2016,  the insurer changed  to Covea. But she said her 
policy documents changed from the car showing as having modifications  to not having 
modifications. She said this wasnt something  she or her husband  did but it was changed by 
Coveas agent,  I think she means the broker. But every time a policy  renews a new contract  of 
insurance comes into effect. And every time a new contract of insurance is entered into Mrs J 
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And even if its correct, 
as Mrs J said, that the broker changed  the policy details after the first policy  in 2015  by 
removing the details of the car from being modified to showing no modifications, I dont think  
that makes a difference.  Thats because the current policy taken  out in June  2018  wasnt a 
renewal but it was a completely new policy. And Mrs J went  through a fresh online application 
process. So, whether  or not the documentation  for the policy renewals between June 2015 
and June 2018 had the correct information,  namely confirming the car had modifications, it 
would have had no bearing on the June 2018 application. Thats  because  the June 2018 
application was for a completely new policy and Mrs J was directed to it through  a comparison 
website.
Ref: DRN61248723And after Mrs J took out her June 2018 policy with Covea  she was sent documentation  
which included a document called  Statement  of Insurance . The Statement of Insurance 
listed all the important information on which Covea agreed to insure Mrs J. It said: 
modifications  none. The Statement  of Insurance also said:
It is important that you check that the information given in your Statement of 
Insurance is, to the best of your knowledge and belief,  complete and correct as this 
forms the basis of your insurance contract.
Please refer to the conditions in your policy wording for details of how any changes in 
circumstances may affect your insurance.
You must tell us immediately if at any time any of the information is incorrect or 
changes. Failure  to do so may result in your insurance no longer being  valid and 
claims not being met or not being  met in full. If in doubt about any change please 
contact us as soon as possible.
CIDRA specifically says that: a failure by the consumer to comply  with the insurers  request  
to confirm or amend particulars previously given  is capable of being  a misrepresentation for 
the purposes of this Act. So, in Mrs Js case, Covea sent her the Statement of Insurance in 
which they told her to read all the information  carefully as she had a duty to provide accurate 
information. Given Mrs Js first policy in 2015  was taken  out on the basis  that her car was 
modified I think she would have been aware it was modified. And given she said she was 
aware that her car had cosmetic changes,  I think Mrs J should have told Covea  her car was 
modified. I therefore  think Mrs J didnt take reasonable care and she made a 
misrepresentation.
Mrs J has been at pains  to point out that she had no dishonest  intent. Like Covea I too 
accept that. Had there been a dishonest intent  I think Covea would have said Mrs J had 
made a deliberate misrepresentation  which would mean it would be entitled to keep the 
policy premium.  But they said her misrepresentation was careless and I agree with that. But 
even where the misrepresentation  was careless  CIDRA allows  Covea to void the policy  if 
they wouldnt have  insured her had they known the car was modified. I therefore dont think 
Covea have done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6124872