K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy at a meeting around the same time as taking a mortgage 
that started  in 2004. Mr D has told us he was employed at the time as a warehouse man and 
had been there more  than 15 years. Hes told us he was entitled to less than 12 but at least 
six months full sick pay and redundancy pay. Mrs D has told us she was employed as a 
sales assistant for less than 16 hours a week. From  what theyve told us, Mr and Mrs D 
didnt have any other means  like savings to pay their mortgage if Mr D couldnt work.
The PPI policy provided cover for Mr D for accident, sickness  and unemployment   subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered  to pay Mr and Mrs Ds 
monthly mortgage payment plus 25%.  Halifax says the benefit was £550 a month initially 
costing £33.32 a month.
Mr D has told us of being treated  for a health  issue more than 20 years before the sale and 
hes said hes never missed any work  with this. Hes also told us of a different issue  he had 
more than ten years before the sale. He hasnt referred to having had any treatment for it at 
that time,  but hes told us of another incidence of it for which  he was treated around  three  
years before the sale. At that time, he was also prescribed medicine for another  health issue  
of a similar kind. He hasnt told us of having missed  work as a result of either  of these health 
issues. But Mr D has told us he did have a few months off work more than ten years before 
the sale as a result of a different health  issue and an operation.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account the PPI was taken with closed in 
2005. Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on 
their behalf.  I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully.  
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ds representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs D 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN68869772The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in or before 2004 before  the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN68869773The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ds 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN68869774Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs D and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs D havent  said anything  to 
make me think they werent given a choice about taking the PPI  so, with what  theyve said 
in mind, I think it likely  they were aware the PPI was something separate  from the mortgage 
and they chose to take the cover. Also, Mr and Mrs D and Halifax  agree the sale took place 
in a branch. From what  we know of the branch paperwork used by Halifax at the time to sell 
policies like this, I think it was normally made clear the PPI was optional.
Taking everything into account,  I think its likely  Mr and Mrs D knew  the policy  was optional 
and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr and Mrs D have said they cant recall  whether advice was given. Halifax  says it did give 
advice  and if Halifax did give advice, Halifax had to do more. With all this in mind, I think  
its fair to proceed on the basis that Halifax gave  advice.  This means  Halifax  had to advise 
Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate 
or suitable given  their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. There is no record of exactly what Halifax  discussed in 
relation to the PPI. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during  a meeting. Halifax  had 
some limited  information about Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances from their mortgage 
application, but I dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable and establish 
Mr and Mrs D had a need for the cover. For example, there is nothing to suggest Halifax 
asked Mr and Mrs D about  Mr Ds work sick pay or redundancy entitlement.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. 
In reaching that conclusion, Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the policy  Mr D was the main  wage  earner and it seems  
likely Mr and Mrs D would suffer  a loss of income if Mr D werent working for a prolonged 
period  even  allowing for the sickness and redundancy benefits he was entitled to. The 
policy benefit wouldve helped Mr and Mrs D manage the consequences  in that situation, 
Ref: DRN68869775by helping cover  their mortgage  related  costs,  making it less likely their home  would be 
put at risk were Mr D unable  to work.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. There  
was nothing about Mr Ds employment or occupation which  wouldve  made it difficult for 
them to claim. Regarding  pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr D had suffered various 
health issues before the sale but the policy didnt exclude claims for absences  related to 
existing conditions if, as was the case here, the application  for cover was made at the 
same time at the mortgage application  or within three months of mortgage completion.  
So, Mr and Mrs D wouldve  been able to claim  if, for example, Mr D were kept off work 
again by a recurrence of the issue that had kept him off work in the past, or for absences 
caused by a related issue.
-Although Mr and Mrs D say they were  financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen nothing 
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The PPI would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 months for each claim - and for 
disability would only pay if Mr D were unable  to do his own or any similar  job, and unable 
to do any work  his experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  him to do. But it 
still provided valuable  cover given Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, the loss of income 
they couldve suffered  were  Mr D unable  to work  for an extended period, the fact the PPI 
protected the mortgage payments on their home and the potential consequences were  
Mr and Mrs D to have become unable to repay  a loan secured against  their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is the policy would protect their payments if Mr D were 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have taken 
the policy without  any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs D. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave them  all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN68869776In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ds. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs D about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs D. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I have found the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr and Mrs D have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs D would have acted  differently  or whether they would have taken  the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs D had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  the PPI or advised them  there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments if they were 
Ref: DRN68869777unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted 
that product.  But they made  that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  
they thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As Ive explained, Im satisfied from the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances  at the 
sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Although  I consider  it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs D knew they would have to pay something for it, Ive nothing 
to show Halifax told them the exact premium at the point they applied for the PPI. That said,  
I dont think it likely  Mr and Mrs D wouldve taken the PPI without an idea of the approximate  
cost. Also,  if when they started paying  it the policy  cost had been significantly at odds with 
their point of sale expectations, they mightve  raised this with Halifax then or reconsidered 
their decision, rather than maintaining the policy like they did. Overall,  Im not persuaded 
Mr and Mrs D wouldve  found the cost unacceptable if they had been  given the exact figure 
during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs D would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ds 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than 
they would  have expected  as the benefit  was more than (125% of) the mortgage payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr D be unable  to do his 
own or any similar job and be unable to do any paid work  his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking it. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr D was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality.
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr D wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  he was employed and couldve  still claimed  if the health issue  that 
had kept him off work  in the past had kept him off work again. So, with all the above in mind,  
I think Mr and Mrs D still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs D might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to 
Ref: DRN68869778be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs D from taking the policy, Mr and Mrs D, in their circumstances, 
still had some good reasons to take it.
If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if Mr D were not only unable  to 
do his own or any similar  job but also unable to do any paid work  his experience, education  
or training reasonably qualified him to do, it might have played into their thinking about what  
to do. And I accept  it may have given them pause  for thought   although,  given their 
circumstances, on balance I think they would still have been interested in taking the cover.  
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs D any claim they made would be limited  to 24 months.  
This may have differed  from what they expected and mightve hoped for  but Mr D wouldve 
received full sick pay for less than 12 months  and his redundancy entitlement  was also less 
than 12 months income. In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs D wouldve 
still thought a policy that covered up to 24 monthly  mortgage payments would benefit them  
and help them manage the consequences  if Mr D couldnt work  in the circumstances the 
policy covered. The policy allowed for multiple  claims  to be made and the benefit would help 
reduce Mr and Mrs Ds outgoings and help ensure their home was not placed at risk, at a 
what could be a difficult and uncertain time if Mr D were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs D would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr D were  made  redundant, or unable to work due to accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr and Mrs D would have 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
Ref: DRN68869779to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  Thats  because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt 
have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not they would 
still have taken the PPI had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  
it. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that would  put them in a better position 
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs D think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of its 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax failed to act 
fairly and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided 
 but because the overall information it gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, was insufficient 
to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect  Halifax  to have met in or 
shortly before 2004 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6886977