K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited  trading  as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) asked him to pay when he returned  a car at the end of a 
hire purchase agreement.
background
Mr K acquired a new car from MBFS through a 36 month hire purchase  agreement.  At the 
expiry of the agreement Mr K returned the car, and was invoiced for a missing spare key at 
£260 and the missing  V5 registration document at £25 - with a total charge of £290  including  
vat.
Mr K says there was no mention, reminder  or request for the spare  key or the V5 registration  
documentation  when he was arranging for collection of the car. And, that he later found 
both items  and returned them to MBFS so the charges shouldnt  be applied.
MBFS says the spare key had to be returned with the car and because  it wasnt  they had it 
deactivated and a replacement key issued.  And this was completed before Mr K returned  his 
copy of the key  so Mr K is liable for this cost. They said they didnt receive the V5 
documentation from Mr K, but that if he could provide proof of delivery theyd consider 
removing this charge.  In addition, they offered to reduce  the total charges applied by 15% as 
a gesture of goodwill,  meaning the new total payable  was £246.50. 
 Mr K wasnt  happy with MBFS response, so brought  a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and said she felt MBFS had fairly applied the 
charges for both the V5 documentation and the spare key. She thought this was also in line 
with both the terms and conditions  that Mr K signed as part of his hire purchase agreement  
and the guidelines set by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA).   
Mr K disagreed saying  that he had returned  the V5 documentation and that he wasnt aware 
he could incur these  charges until he was invoiced for them. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The BVRLA has produced  industry guidance which includes  advice and information for 
drivers of leased and financed cars.  This sets out industry standards around end-of-lease 
charges and what customers should  expect  at car return. And Ive taken this into 
consideration, along with what both parties  have told us and any evidence theyve provided 
 including  the terms and conditions that Mr K agreed to as part of his hire purchase 
agreement with MBFS, when deciding whether MBFS have acted fairly and reasonably in 
applying the charges here.
The BVRLA guidance indicates  that all vehicle documentation, including the V5C vehicle 
registration document (where  appropriate)  amongst other documentation must be intact  and 
in the vehicle on return, along with a full set of keys,  including the master key, spares  and 
locking wheel-nut  keys. 
Ref: DRN62264902In addition, Mr Ks hire purchase agreement says on page  3 under vehicle condition terms 
Keys  You are required to return all keys with the vehicle originally supplied  by the 
manufacturer and failure to do so will result in charge to replace the missing key(s). 
Registration document V5s  You agree.. to return the registration documentation (V5c)  
either upon request prior to the end of the agreement as part of the return  process of the 
vehicle, or with the vehicle at the time of collection .
Whats more, I think Mr K shouldve been  reasonably aware that he would be required to 
return all keys including any spares  at the time he returned the vehicle, along  with the V5 
documentation and any other important documents that would  usually be kept with the car. 
And that if he didnt  then he was likely  to be charged, in line with the terms and conditions of 
his hire purchase agreement.  
Also I dont think its unreasonable that MBFS wouldve immediately deactivated the spare 
key, as not doing so may have put the security of their car at risk - as anyone  with a key 
would still have access to the car. So while I appreciate that Mr K returned the spare  key at a 
later date, this shouldve been  done  at the time the car was returned to MBFS. 
MBFS said it would reconsider the charge  for the missing  V5 registration document  if Mr K 
could provide proof of delivery. Mr K explained  he sent the document first class post, so 
didnt have any proof of delivery. While I dont doubt  Mr K mayve sent this back,  overall Im 
not persuaded that MBFS received this document - so I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
MBFS to apply this charge. But MBFS applied a discount of 15% to the invoice anyway, 
which reduced the overall total due by more than if theyd waived the charge for the 
replacement V5 document - which  is more  than I wouldve expected them  to do.
Having considered everything, I think MBFS have fairly applied the charges for both the 
missing V5 registration  document  and the missing spare key  and I wont  be asking it to 
remove any charges. 
MBFS have confirmed that the 15% discount it offered is still available  and Mr K can settle 
the invoice for £246.50. Mr K should  contact MBFS directly should he wish to accept this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6226490