K821x#15complaint
Mrs L has complained  about  pension transfer  advice she was given by Anthony  Feeney 
Financial Services (AFFS).  AFFS recommended  that she transfer an existing personal 
pension into a Self Investment Personal Pension  (SIPP). Mrs L then invested  into an 
unregulated property investment which subsequently became illiquid. She believes the 
advice was unsuitable.
Mrs L is represented in this complaint.
background
In 2012 Mrs L was advised  by AFFS to transfer her personal pension into a SIPP.  
The suitability letter recorded  Mrs L had the intention of investing  into commercial  property,  
specifically the Self First Storage  Pods  (store  pods)  investment. Whilst AFFS  set out the 
merits and disadvantages  of the investment, it also said it did not recommend  the investment 
and that it was only advising on the SIPP. The store pods investment was unregulated and is 
currently illiquid. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He thought it should be upheld.  The 
investment in store pods exposed Mrs L to a number of risks. There were risks that the 
investment would be illiquid meaning  that Mrs L might not be able to access  the funds. The 
investment was unregulated meaning that it was not covered by the FSCS. AFFS didnt 
advise against  the investment. 
AFFS didnt agree. A hearing  was requested  but I decided I could arrive at a decision based  
on the information provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and broadly with his reasons. 
AFFS provided Mrs L advice to set up a SIPP which  is a regulated activity. The FSA was the 
regulator at the time the firm gave advice  to Mrs L. The FSA issued an alert in January 2013. 
This was headed Advising on pension  transfers with a view to investing pension  monies into 
unregulated products through  a SIPP. It specifically  mentioned store  pods. This gave the 
FSAs view that providing suitable advice when advising on a SIPP generally requires 
consideration of the investments to be held. 
So the advice  should have taken  this into account.  AFFS could not advise on the suitability 
of the SIPP  without considering the underlying investments. The SIPP is only an investment 
wrapper. To advise on suitability AFFS had to obtain enough information about Mr Ls 
circumstances. 
AFFS said that its report informed Mrs L about the risks and this was in accordance with the 
regulators guidelines  at the time. The merits and disadvantages were pointed  out to Mrs L. 
The report  stated, in bold,  the following:
Ref: DRN67471512I recommend that your fund is not placed  within one asset class and should form part 
of a diversified portfolio across a number of asset classes.
AFFS have said they had no involvement in the purchase of the store first investment and 
that was a decision made by Mrs L, but I dont  agree  with this approach.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the risks of this transfer were almost entirely about the 
intended investment.  I cannot see how suitable  advice can be given without thinking about  
that investment.  Thats the key message from the regulators  alert. The firm knew  that Mrs L 
intended to invest  in store pods. AFFS should  have considered whether that was suitable  for 
her.
When the SIPP was recommended Mrs L was a skilled office worker earning £16,000 
annually. The suitability report  confirmed she had a limited knowledge of investments. She 
had little, if any, investment experience and no other  pension wealth. I think transferring all of 
her pension to a SIPP to invest a large part in storage pods was unsuitable. 
Mrs Ls attitude to risk was recorded as adventurous.  I find it very hard to accept that was 
an accurate assessment. As Ive said, she had little previous investment experience  and her 
pension had been invested in managed  funds  before. It was not documented why fund 
switching wasnt considered. In my view Mrs L did not have  the capacity to accept the risk of 
investing in storage pods.
I think the regulators alert is important in this case. It specifically highlights situations  where  
a SIPP  is recommended and an unregulated investment is to be made. The firm knew  that 
Mrs L intended to invest in store pods. The advice should have considered whether this 
investment was suitable. In my view, it is not enough to simply point out the risks. Suitable 
advice should  have been not to invest in store pods,  or at the very least, not to invest half of 
the pension fund like this. If that advice had been  given I have no reason to think that Mrs L 
would not have accepted  it. Most  consumers  follow  professional advice.
Ive noted the points  that have been made  about the status of the store  pods investment, 
whether it was a UCIS or not. But I dont think the precise nature of the investment  is 
decisive here. The investment  was unregulated and potentially illiquid.
Unless the investment  can be sold it will remain in the SIPP. Its possible that a buyer could 
be found. However, I think this is unlikely to be a simple process. And particularly for 
someone like Mrs L who is inexperienced with this type of investment. I think that the storage 
pod investment should be removed from the SIPP. Mrs L will need to co-operate  with the 
firm in trying  to remove the investment from the SIPP.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs L as close to the position  she would probably now be in if she had been 
given suitable  advice. I take the view that Mrs L would have invested differently.  It is not 
possible to say precisely what she would have done  differently. But I think  what  I have set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mrs L's circumstances and objectives when she 
invested. 
what should AFFS do?
To compensate Mrs L fairly AFFS must:
Ref: DRN67471513Compare the performance of Mrs L's investment  with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
AFFS must  also pay any interest, as set out below.
If there  is a loss, AFFS should pay such amount as may be required into Mrs L's 
pension plan, allowing for any available  tax relief and/or costs, to increase the 
pension plan value  by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.
If AFFS is unable to pay the total amount  into Mrs L's pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs L's marginal rate of tax at 
retirement.
For example, if Mrs L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement,  the notional  
allowance would equate to a reduction  in the total amount equivalent  to the current  
basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs L would have  been able to take a tax free lump 
sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Had AFFS done what it ought to have done then there would not be a SIPP. So it 
would not be fair if Mrs L continued to have to pay annual SIPP  fees if there are 
illiquid holdings  preventing the SIPP from being  closed. Ideally, AFFS would take 
over any illiquid holdings, thus allowing  the SIPP to be closed. But third parties  are 
involved and I cant tell them what to do.
So, to give certainty  to all parties, if there are illiquid holdings and AFFS is unable  to 
buy them  from the SIPP, then it is fair that AFFS pay Mrs L an upfront  lump sum 
equivalent to five years  of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
gives a reasonable period to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, AFFS should pay Mrs L £300  for distress that resulted from the 
inappropriate advice  to transfer her pension  fund to a SIPP.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs L in a clear, simple format.  Income  tax 
may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN67471514investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
My aim is to return  Mrs L to the position she would have been in but for the unsuitable  
advice. This is complicated  where an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily 
sold on the open market) as in this case. It would be difficult  to know  the actual value of the 
investment. In such a case the actual  value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. AFFS should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying  a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from 
the total payable to Mrs L and the balance be paid as I set out above.
If AFFS is unwilling  or unable to purchase  the investment  the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. AFFS may wish to require that Mrs L 
provides an undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive  from the investment in the 
future.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted  from the 
fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the calculation  
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular payments, to keep calculations  
simpler, I will accept  if AFFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs L wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
Ref: DRN67471515The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable  measure of comparison 
given Mrs L's circumstances and risk attitude.
Mrs L has not yet used her pension plan to purchase an annuity.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Anthony  Feeney Financial Services  must pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
The firm should provide details of its calculation  to Mrs L in a clear,  simple format.
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept  or reject  my decision before 
3 October 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6747151