K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr M holds  with Bank of Scotland  plc. 
Hes unhappy that Halifax hasnt done  enough to help him whilst hes been  in arrears due to 
financial difficulties. In particular, Mr M says Halifax refused to allow  him to let his property 
out, has misled him about the qualifying  criteria  for capitalisation and then moved the 
goalposts on when  he will be eligible to have his arrears capitalised.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 25 November 2019,  which  is attached below and 
forms part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis  on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. I gave the parties  
until 9 December 2019 to reply; both have done so. 
Halifax accepted  my findings without further comment. Mr M confirmed receipt of the 
provisional decision and said hed reply in more  detail  by the due date,  but hasnt. Overall, 
given the time the case has been with us, I think it is preferable for me to finalise my decision 
on Mr Ms complaint sooner rather than later.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision,  so I dont.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in 
part by ordering Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr M £125. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65294922CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a Halifax-branded  mortgage Mr M holds with Bank of Scotland plc. Hes 
unhappy that Halifax hasnt  done enough  to help him whilst hes been in arrears due to financial 
difficulties. In particular, Mr M says Halifax refused to allow him to let his property out, has misled him 
about the qualifying  criteria for capitalisation and then moved the goalposts on when he will be 
eligible to have his arrears capitalised.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, rounding  
some the figures involved,  and using  my own words. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of 
the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  Mr M when  my decision is published.
Mr M fell in to arrears after losing his job. He got a new job, which involved  living away from home and 
paying rent. He asked Halifax if he could let the property out but the bank explained  that its policy was 
not to allow consent  to let unless an account was up to date. 
In June 2018,  Mr M agreed a payment arrangement under which  hed pay £850 a month  that 
covered the contractual  monthly payment  (CMP) plus a contribution of around £275 towards the 
arrears. He also asked about the possibility  of his arrears being capitalised;  Halifax told him hed need 
to make six consecutive payments before it would  consider capitalisation.
In November 2018, Mr M had a long conversation with a member of the collections team.  That 
conversation went over several issues, including  the consent to let position  and Mr Ms desire to 
capitalise the arrears and draw a line under  his situation. The call handler  told him this wasnt possible 
as several of the payments  hed made had been  recalled by his bank under the direct debit 
guarantee, so his arrears  had gone up rather than down. Mr M knew nothing about  this and said hed 
find out why his bank had done that. This was resolved by Mr M making a lump sum payment  of just 
under £2,300  on 15 November 2018. Shortly afterwards, Mr M received a letter saying his 
arrangement had ended; on speaking  to the bank, it was explained  this was a system letter and the 
arrangement would be reset once the November  payment had been received.
In January 2019 Mr M was facing some domestic repairs; he was also supporting his parents who 
were in poor health. He was hoping  Halifax  would  now approve capitalisation, which  would mean he 
could revert  to paying the CMP. But Halifax  told him the qualifying period was actually  twelve rather  
than six months, which would mean Mr M having to continue with the payment arrangement until June 
2019. Mr M complained to us.
Soon after Mr M brought the complaint to us, he suffered a family  bereavement. This disrupted his 
work, and the payment for February 2019 wasnt paid on time; he made two payments in March 2019. 
Mr M has told us that the collections  department initially told him this wouldnt  affect his qualifying 
period, but since then has told him he must now maintain a new run of twelve consecutive  payments 
to February 2020.
Our investigator thought Halifax  should  pay Mr M £125 compensation for the confusion  over the 
qualifying period  for capitalisation. He also, initially at least,  encouraged Halifax to go ahead  with the 
capitalisation, as it would reduce Mr Ms monthly outlay from the £850 he was paying  under  the 
Ref: DRN65294923agreement to around  £670.  Halifax  wasnt  willing  to do that, and Mr M was unhappy  too that Halifax 
had further extended the qualifying  period whilst his complaint has been with us. 
So the case  has come  to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. If I dont  comment on any specific point its not because  Ive failed to 
consider it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider  context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
forbearance generally
Its a common misconception that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders to provide 
forbearance. What they actually  require  lenders to do is consider each set of individual circumstances 
fairly to decide if forbearance should be provided; the two things arent the same.  
eligibility for capitalisation of arrears
Capitalisation is a concession,  and an onerous one at that. Lenders typically  have strict  qualifying 
criteria before theyll consider capitalising  arrears. Six or twelve  consecutive months of regular  
payments, as a pre-condition of a lender  considering a request for such a concession is quite 
reasonable, and not at all unusual. Even if that is achieved,  it doesnt guarantee capitalisation will be 
approved; its merely a pre-condition before lenders will even consider it.
Such things  are a matter  of commercial judgement for a business, and we wont generally interfere 
with that. I see no reason to do so here; rather, what I have to consider next is firstly whether Halifax 
has applied the correct  pre-condition, and secondly  whether Mr M has met it. Ive seen a copy of 
Halifaxs policy on capitalisation; it applies  a minimum  period of either  six or twelve months, 
depending on the severity  of the individual borrowers  arrears. In Mr Ms case, the level and duration 
of his arrears meant that the twelve-month requirement was applicable. 
Ive listened to a recording of the June 2018 conversation; Im satisfied nothing was said that could be 
considered a guarantee of when Mr Ms arrears might be capitalised, but he was given  the impression 
that it could be considered  after six months  and as Ive said, that should have been twelve. Where 
wrong information  has been  given, we dont put the consumer in the position theyd be in if wrong 
information had been right.  We put them  in the position theyd be in if the right information had been 
given. 
When Halifax implied to Mr M in June  2018  that the requirement was six consecutive  payments, it 
was a mistake.  So when it subsequently did tell Mr M it was twelve months,  Halifax  wasnt moving  the 
goalposts; it was correcting a mistake,  which  is what Id expect it to do.
The next thing for me to consider is how successful Mr M has been in adhering  to the twelve-month  
requirement. To that end, its worth explaining precisely what the requirement is. It means making the 
Ref: DRN65294924amount due in full and on time each and every month for the specified  period.  (The italics are mine). 
Thats a high bar, but theres a good reason  for that. 
What a lender is looking  for before it will consider capitalisation  is evidence that a borrowers financial 
difficulties are behind them, and that their circumstances have stabilised and become sufficiently  
resilient to cope with an unexpected shock. That said, Halifaxs policy on capitalisation does have a 
small amount  of leeway built into it; it has the discretion to overlook one incidence of a late or 
incomplete payment during a consecutive sequence, provided its made  up the following month. Ill 
come back to that in due course.
With all of that in mind, Ive looked at Mr Ms payment record since June 2018. Assessing the period 
up to November  2018  is a little complex in that whilst Mr M was seemingly paying the agreed amount 
each month,  behind the scenes his bank was clawing  the money back.  All of the available  evidence 
points to this being an error on the part of Mr Ms bank, and once he found out about it in November  
2018, Mr M paid almost £2,300 back to the mortgage. 
It invites the question of why Mr M hadnt noticed the money returning  to his bank account  before 
then, but insofar as it wasnt his doing, Halifax was apparently willing to give him the benefit of the 
doubt and consider his consecutive  payment  record as having been restored at the point he paid in 
the lump sum.  That seems fair to me.
Mr M was unable to make his February payment  within  the month,  and made it on 7 March 2019 
instead. Halifax decided Mr Ms run of consecutive full and on time payments was broken and had to 
be reset. I appreciate this upset Mr M, chiefly because of the reason  for it (which I dont disclose here 
to preserve his privacy) but also because hed initially been  led to believe it would  be overlooked.
Mr M sees that as another example of Halifax  moving  the goal posts on him. Ive given that a great 
deal of consideration, because it really is where  the heart of this complaint  lies. Having done so, Im 
afraid I have  to disappoint  Mr M. 
I mentioned earlier the discretion in Halifaxs  policy to overlook  one late or incomplete payment in a 
consecutive sequence. On first glance, the situation Mr M found  himself  in regarding the February  
payment might seem  to be exactly what  that provision was designed for. The difficulty  however, is that 
this wasnt  Mr Ms first late or incomplete payment in the sequence. The payment  for December 2018 
was paid in January 2019.
That might  seems a minor  lapse, and isolation  perhaps it is. But this didnt happen  in isolation.  
Everything has a context and here, the late payments occurred against the backdrop of a person  with 
long standing  arrears who was trying to persuade his lender that his circumstances were now 
sufficiently stable that he should be considered  favourably  for capitalisation. Viewed  in that light, I 
dont think its unfair for Halifax to have decided  the consecutive payment sequence as a pre-
condition for consider capitalising Mr Ms arrears  should start afresh from March  2019.  
The effect  of the reset is that Mr M currently needs to maintain a run of twelve consecutive payments 
in full and on time up to February 2020, in order to meet  Halifaxs pre-condition to be considered for 
capitalisation of his arrears. In my view, thats fair and reasonable application  of Halifaxs  policy. For 
completeness, I note that the payment for June 2019 arrived in Mr Ms mortgage account on 1 July 
2019. It might only be one day, but it wasnt paid on time, which means  Halifax can reasonably  take 
the view that Mr M has already had his one free pass in the current  sequence.
access to a lower  interest rate
Mr M has said that another effect of not having his arrears capitalised  is that hes being charged more  
interest that he would be otherwise. Thats because the fixed rate deal he had been on has now 
expired. Since August 2019 his account has reverted  to Halifaxs standard variable rate and his 
contractual payment  has gone  up by £120. Mr M says this is a breach  of mortgage regulations, but I 
dont agree. 
Ref: DRN65294925As far as a lower rate is concerned, its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; 
just as with capitalisation (and any other forbearance measure) lenders have to consider context and 
individual circumstances in all cases. Most lenders, when  asked to provide a new rate to a borrower  
with an arrears history,  require the arrears to be cleared in full and then the mortgage kept up to date 
and arrears- free for a minimum  period  (a year is not untypical) before theyll consider  offering a new 
rate. 
Thats because most rate deals  come with an early repayment charge (ERC)  if the mortgage ends 
during the term of the deal. If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment under  a new deal, they might 
still be at risk of the property being taken into possession  and then sold. If that happened, then the 
ERC clause would be activated resulting  in an extra amount being added  to the closing balance on 
sale. So lenders typically guard against  that risk by insisting on an arrears-free period  before theyll 
consider offering a new rate deal. 
Applying that approach  to Mr Ms situation means that he might reasonably  be eligible for access to a 
new rate deal once he has achieved an arrears-free status (the most likely  means  for this being  
capitalisation, assuming that happens) and then maintained that status for up to twelve months 
thereafter. 
Thats discretionary; Halifax could choose to offer him something earlier  than that, but to be clear, it 
doesnt have to and it would be entirely improper for me to say it should. Mr M simply has to accept  
that it will be quite some time (perhaps the Spring  of 2021) before he can reasonably look to Halifax to 
offer him a new interest rate deal.
consent to let
Mr M no longer  needs  to let his property  out, and in conversation with our investigator earlier this 
year, he accepted that we couldnt consider the matter anyway,  as it fell outside the time limits in our 
rules. For completeness, Ill simply make some general  observations.  
When a lender grants a residential  mortgage,  its after having assessed the risk on that basis (i.e. that 
the borrower will occupy the mortgaged property). The risk associated with lending to someone who 
then lets the property out is generally perceived as being  higher, which  is why a lender will typically 
confine consent to let to borrowers who are presently  up to date. Allowing someone  in arrears to let 
their home  out might  help (the rental income for example)  but if it doesnt, then a lender wishing to 
enforce its security has the added complication of having to evict a tenant (who  might by fully up to 
date with their rent). 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point,  and I havent.  I have, as I said 
I would, confined  myself  to those matters  that I consider have  a material effect on the outcome. I can 
see from his submissions the determination with which Mr M has brought the complaint. Thats a 
natural, subjective reaction,  and entirely  understandable. 
Its also natural  to emphasise  individual statements  or comments that appear to support a particular 
view point,  whilst at the same  time paying less attention to those that support the opposite viewpoint. 
Be that as it may, I have  to take a different  approach. Im impartial and I have to look at things 
objectively, sometimes taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. Thats  what  Ive 
done. Having done so, I cant  find in Mr Ms favour, however much he thinks  I should. 
However unwelcome Mr M might find Halifaxs  application of its policies  to his situation,  it hasnt acted 
unfairly or breached  its regulatory requirements. Thats not to say Halifax  has been without fault; but 
its shortcomings have been about it explained its policy on capitalisation  rather than how it has 
applied it. For that, I share the investigators opinion  that £125 is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN65294926my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties by 9 December 
2019 my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold  this complaint in part by ordering Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay Mr M £125.
Ill review my provisional decision after 9 December 2019,  or sooner than that if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6529492