K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires)  has been 
reporting incorrect information to credit reference agencies since  he was discharged  from his 
bankruptcy. 
background 
Mr C was made bankrupt in May 2012. At that time, he had a number of properties 
mortgaged with Bank of Scotland.  
Two of these properties were sold. The sale proceeds werent enough  to repay  the 
outstanding balance on either  mortgage  so a shortfall remained on each. But given Mr Cs 
bankruptcy, those  accounts were closed and Bank  of Scotland didnt pursue him for 
repayment. A third mortgaged property was retained   and operated on a buy-to-let basis  by 
receivers.
Mr C was discharged from his bankruptcy in May 2013.
Last year, Mr C complained to Bank of Scotland that information about  all three accounts  
was being shown on his credit file. It also paid him £400 for the inconvenience hed been 
caused. On receiving confirmation of Mr Cs discharge from bankruptcy, the bank agreed to 
remove this in September 2018. But while the two closed accounts were  no longer an issue, 
the third account  was showing on his credit file again (as being in an arrangement to pay). 
Bank of Scotland said that the information had reappeared due to a limitation in its computer  
system. This, it said, meant that accounts  removed following  a discharge from bankruptcy  
would reappear at the beginning of the next month. So it had to then re-request the removal 
each month   meaning that in the intervening period, the information  would be shown.
With the information continuing to reappear on his credit file, Mr C referred  his complaint to 
us earlier  this year to get that fixed. He said the information on his credit file meant  hed 
been declined  for a business loan, which wouldve been used to invest  in developing a 
property. That deal,  he said,  wouldve made him a profit of £350,000  so he wanted the 
bank to compensate  him for that.
When our adjudicator reviewed Mr Cs complaint, he noted that the issue  with the credit file 
had been fixed. He thought the £400 it had already paid Mr C was fair compensation for the 
inconvenience hed been caused.  And he didnt think  the bank needed to pay Mr C any of 
his projected profits  for the deal  as he didnt think there was any guarantee that it wouldve 
gone ahead  or, even  if it had, that it wouldve made Mr C the amounts  hed projected.
Mr C didnt accept our adjudicators opinion. He pointed  to a letter from his prospective 
lender that said the loan application couldnt go ahead due to this information on his credit 
file to support  his claim for compensation. He didnt think £400 was anywhere near enough  
to compensate him for what he lost and the stress hed been  caused. So the complaint was 
referred to me to decide.
Ref: DRN69248452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland has accepted that information  about Mr Cs mortgage accounts shouldve 
ceased to be shown on his credit file once it was made aware  of his discharge from 
bankruptcy. And I can see that when it was provided  with appropriate confirmation last 
summer, it took appropriate  steps  to instruct the necessary amendments  in a timely  manner.
That didnt fix things  immediately though.  Information about the open account  continued  to 
appear each month for a short period while the manual  re-request to delete  it was 
processed. I understand that a solution has now been found as Mr C confirmed to us in May 
that the matter  was fixed. And hes not reported any recurrence since  then.
While Bank  of Scotland has been  able to explain why its had difficulties in suppressing the 
reporting of this information,  ultimately its still made errors here. Mr C is entitled to expect 
information on his credit file to be clear and accurate. Here  on occasion   it hasnt been. 
So Ive thought about whether Mr C has lost out financially as a result.
In that respect,  Ive carefully considered what Mr C has told us about the impact this has had 
on his business.  He says its hampered his ability to arrange finance for property investment 
opportunities  and one specific deal in particular that wouldve yielded a return of £350,000. 
It seems  from the prospective  lenders  letter that it was due to this information  on Mr Cs 
credit file that the loan application didnt proceed.  
However, I still cant say with any level of certainty that were it not for Bank of Scotlands 
error, Mr C wouldve  gone  on to secure  the finance  he needed (as other factors may still 
have affected  this),  then develop the property  in the way he hoped  and then sold it  all with 
the level of profit he estimated, and of which there is very little supporting  evidence.  There  
are simply too many variables and uncertainties for me to able to say what  might otherwise 
have transpired  here  the transaction was at such an early  stage  that any number of things 
couldve happened. And so I dont think I can fairly hold Bank  of Scotland  responsible for the 
potential losses that Mr C is claiming here.
I also note that Bank of Scotland  provided Mr C with a letter explaining its error shortly after 
the issue came to light, that Mr C could  in turn provide to any prospective lender to explain 
the issue with his credit file. I appreciate  that wasnt the ideal situation, but it went some way 
to mitigating the impact of the problem on Mr C  for this and other prospective transactions 
until the problem  was permanently resolved earlier this year.
Its clear that this matter  has caused  Mr C some understandable stress   while  its hard to 
say that it caused  him a financial loss, I can appreciate  why he was anxious to get his credit  
file rectified given its significance in his business  plans. It also put him to some 
inconvenience, in that it took repeated exchanges  with Bank of Scotland  over a number of 
months to resolve things.  So its right that hes compensated for this. But the bank  has 
already paid Mr C £400, which I think is a fair amount in recognition of the upset  and 
inconvenience this issue put him to. So Im not directing it to do anything further.
Ref: DRN69248453my final decision
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) has already paid Mr C £400 to settle 
the complaint  and I think this is a fair resolution  in all the circumstances  so I dont require it 
to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6924845