K820x#14complaint
Mr P says that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  him payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  with his mortgage.
background
Mr P took out a mortgage in 1990  and he was sold PPI at the same  time. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P didnt  agree with this view.  Mr Ps main 
complaint is that he didnt  know he had PPI.
He has asked for a review  so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Halifax couldnt provide Mr Ps paperwork  from the sale. So Ive seen nothing signed by Mr P 
from then to show how he was sold the PPI. But its not surprising, given how long ago this 
sale happened, that documents arent  still available. I wouldnt reasonably expect Halifax or 
Mr P to have kept these.  
Ive taken carefully into account  what Mr P remembers. But it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect him to recall  exactly  what was discussed  at the time. 
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that Halifax didnt make it 
clear that it was open to Mr P not to choose PPI if he didnt want  to have it, just based on 
what he says now. Halifax says it sold PPI to Mr P during a meeting and that it wouldve 
recommended PPI to him. The mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a 
long period of time. Mr Ps home couldve been  put at risk if he failed to keep his mortgage  
payments up to date.  So, I can see why Mr P mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  And, on 
balance, I think its more  likely that he was persuaded of the need to protect  his home by 
taking out the PPI and he decided to buy the policy.  
Halifax had to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover was suitable for Mr P as well as 
giving him important policy information in a clear way. 
Halifax told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document  from the date Mr P took out 
PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use afterwards  so I think its likely 
that in all main respects the policy that Mr P took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
I dont know if or how Halifax assessed Mr Ps needs. But, bearing  in mind everything  Mr P 
has told us about  his circumstances at the time, I dont see any reason why the policy 
wouldnt have been suitable. 
It looks likely  that Mr P was eligible for the insurance and that the policy terms wouldnt have 
made it difficult for him to make a claim.  PPI wouldve paid out in the event of accident and 
sickness, in addition to any employment  benefits,  for up to 12 months per claim. This was 
significantly longer  than Mr P told us he couldve  relied on his employer to pay him sick pay. 
And Mr P wouldve also been  covered for unemployment under the policy. Mr P couldve 
made repeated claims on the policy, giving him long term cover for his mortgage.
Ref: DRN67232632Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  Having  PPI wouldve 
meant Mr P could be sure hed be able to keep up the monthly repayments in order to 
protect his home in the long term. Looking  at what Mr P has told us about  his circumstances 
at the time, I think PPI was suitable for him.
Its possible  some information Halifax gave Mr P about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr P wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover 
and it looks like he couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered. I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable for him. Given  the serious  
consequences if he was unable to pay his mortgage I think it likely that Mr P considered the 
policy useful at the time  even if hes forgotten this. And Im not persuaded that having 
better information about the policy wouldve put him off buying it.  
Overall, I havent seen enough  information  to suggest that Mr P has lost out as a result of 
anything Halifax mightve done wrong.  So theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.
my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6723263