K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited with regard 
to a boiler and central heating insurance  policy. 
background
Mr H took out the policy with British Gas in 2010. The cover includes an annual service of 
the boiler. Mr H called British Gas out on 21 October 2017 as his boiler was leaking.  He says 
that he discovered water flooding the en suite, boiler area, loft area and also damaging the 
lounge below, in the early  hours of the morning.  
An engineer  attended,  repaired the leak and also serviced the boiler (as it was due in the 
next couple of weeks).  However, the leak recurred  several times over the next few days. I 
understand British  Gas attended at least five times  in total but still couldnt properly repair  it. 
The leaks  caused  damage to Mr Hs property and he had to make a home  insurance  claim 
for the cost of refurbishment. Mr H decided that the boiler should  be replaced, as the leaks  
had not been properly  repaired and he and his wife were having to endure living without 
heating and hot water each  time a leak occurred.  I understand the new boiler was fitted  in 
mid-November 2017.
Mr H says the damage to the boiler, which caused  the leak, was caused due to previous 
work done by British  Gas and/or its failure  to pick up problems  during  the annual  services. I 
have summarised the points Mr H has made below: 
When he first contacted British Gas in October  2017,  it incorrectly told him there  was 
no cover  in place. 
He had to call out British Gas four more  times  within days  as each time they repaired 
it, a separate  leak occurred in differing areas  of the boiler.  
After the fourth appointment the engineer said he needed a part which  he could not 
fit until the next day. He left the boiler switched off and with the base plate removed. 
Mr H says he looked under the boiler  after the engineer left and saw a substantial  
area of rust and corrosion that was obvious  when  looked  at from below and had 
clearly been there for some considerable time. If he could see it so easily, the 
qualified engineers that had seen his boiler  before this must have seen it too. 
The central heating pipe from the boiler had also completely rusted and the washer  
had broken, which had obviously been  caused by water  escaping past the threaded  
connection just in front of the washer; the rust and corrosion  was beneath this 
connection. The threads also bore evidence of ptfe tape having been  wrapped 
around it. The tape obviously  did not form a seal and water had been leaking for 
some considerable time, as there was rust and corrosion around the area. 
When Mr H asked the engineer about  this the next day, he was told that boilers often 
get rusty  but it is not always necessary to report it to the householder or British  Gas. 
Mr H was shocked by this and thinks most consumers would be as well.
British Gas would not contribute to the cost of the new boiler, on the basis that Mr H 
had chosen to replace it and his old boiler had been in working  order (until it leaked). 
This added  insult to injury.
A discount was provided but this was available for anyone  who ordered a boiler  by a 
certain date. He was not given a specific discount, which he would have expected  
given the problems hed experienced and British  Gass failure to notify him of the 
impending doom of his boiler  during any of the annual  services. 
Ref: DRN60970762British Gas says the damage could have been caused before it came  on cover  but 
even if thats the case, it should  have  reported  the damage to him when it was 
inspecting the boiler.  
British  Gas also told him that this the damage might have happened between  the last 
services but an examination of the boiler would show  that the damage was some  
years old and that it would  have been  visible during boiler servicing. The last service  
was in November  2016 and the rust and corrosion  must  have been apparent  then, 
as it takes time to build up.
The ptfe sealant tape must have been put there by a British Gas engineer,  having  
spotted a leak,  and not reported to him.
If he had been  made  aware of the issues with the boiler, hed have replaced  it 
immediately, as he did when it was eventually discovered and admitted to by the 
engineers attending  in 2017, and this would  have avoided the subsequent burst and 
flooding of the property. 
The first leak on 21 October  2017 caused damage to the boiler, damage to the en 
suite, damage to the loft area which it ran into and caused  the damage  to the lounge 
ceiling beneath  the loft. The ceiling  bowed  and split and had to be replaced  with the 
consequent damage  to the room itself which  had to be completely repaired and 
redecorated over many months. This was in winter  and the doors and windows 
needed to be kept open with little, if any heating some days.  
He and his wife (both over 70) could not leave the house, as they had to empty water 
from the loft every  12 hours until the full repairs to the boiler and en suite  were 
completed.
The boiler system had been  installed by a qualified heating engineer and the British  
Gas engineer came to visit the property, examined  the work done  and states,  quite 
categorically that he had not seen such a good job done  before, requesting the 
details of the installer. 
This situation caused immense psychological disturbance and upset,  which included: 
disturbance of sleep  pattern, averaging three to four hours sleep per night, while  
checking and rechecking the boiler for leaks. The boiler is still being checked, the 
occupants suffering  from symptoms  of anxiety; lack of appetite and worry  he lost a 
stone within the four week period  when  this took place; feelings of sickness,  
increased heart rate and higher  blood  pressure. They were  also unable to have their 
family visit them because of the work  that had to be done to their home.
Mr H wants British Gas to reimburse the cost of the new boiler  (£3,475,16); the £250 excess  
he had to pay for the household insurance  claim;  the cost of a spare  part for the boiler  which 
stopped condensing water flowing into the saniflo  system; £71 he paid for an engineer to 
check the en suite shower which had been  affected by all the work taking place (no repairs 
were required  but he made some  adjustments). Mr H says this has cost him over £10,000  in 
total, as well as having  had a detrimental  effect on his and his wifes health.  He is receiving 
medical treatment and had an operation for a medical problem obviously brought  on by 
these events.
British Gas says:
the boiler was installed in 2006/7 and it started  its cover  in 2010, so the tape might  
have been there before the policy started but it is also possible there was a small 
leak which one of its engineers repaired with tape. In any event, the tape is not on 
the part of the boiler  that failed  and caused the leak in October  2017.
The last service was in November 2016, 11 months before the leak reported on 20 
October 2017 when  there was a leaking component on the cold mains. This was a 
Ref: DRN60970763random failure of a part, which could not be foreseen. There  were no signs  of wear  
and tear. Its impractical to expect  the engineers to give a definitive length of life on 
every component in any boiler based on a service visit 11 months  before. The 
component failing 11 months  after a service visit is clearly not down to negligence. 
It returned on 21 October 2017 to attend to a further leak and then again for another 
leak on the condensate trap and after that Mr H said he thought the boiler  was n 
longer reliable and so it arranged for a quote  for a new boiler, which Mr H accepted. 
This was 2 weeks after the original leak.
Mr H claimed  from his house insurance for the property damage, that insurer  has 
paid for the repairs and apparently  did not question if British  Gas may be liable.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He concluded that it was more likely than not 
British Gas had carried  out the repair with the tape,  as the boiler was still under a five year 
warranty when Mr H took out this policy and so he would have had a proper repair done 
under the warranty  if the leak had arisen before  the policy was taken out. However,  he also 
concluded that it was not established  that this repair had caused any of the other leaks. The 
investigator also was not persuaded that the rust was all there in November 2016, when the 
boiler was last serviced but also even if it was that as long as the boiler was working fine, 
this did not necessarily need to be reported or taken further. 
The investigator recommended  that British Gas pay £150 to compensate Mr H for the upset 
caused to him when  he found out a repair had been  completed  without his knowledge and 
that it honour the policy terms which provide  that he would be entitled  to a discount  of the 
cost of installing  a new boiler if British Gas install it. If Mr H didnt receive a discount on the 
boiler he bought  from British Gas  it should refund  him that discount with 8% interest for the 
time hes been out of pocket. This is because after four or five repairs he thought it was 
reasonable Mr H replaced it and he should  not lose out on this discount  just because British  
Gas hadnt yet confirmed it needed  replaced.
British Gas doesnt accept the investigators assessment. It says it provided discounts  to 
Mr H, including a half price boiler, totally around  £770. It also says the manufacturers 
warranty is only valid of the boiler  is regularly serviced and it didnt start servicing the boiler 
until four years after it was installed,  so theres  no proof the warranty was valid,  and 
therefore Mr H may not have been able to have had any repair done under the warranty.
Mr H doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment  either. As the investigator  has not been 
able to resolve the complaint it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In order to be satisfied  that British Gas should  pay Mr H for the cost of the replacement 
boiler, Id need  to be satisfied that it only needed replacing because  of something it had 
done wrong. I dont  think this has been  established  and Ill explain why.  
There were apparently leaks from different parts of the boiler.  Each time repairs  were carried 
out but Mr H felt they were likely to continue and so decided to replace  the boiler. I can 
understand Mr Hs reasons for doing so but there  is no independent evidence  that the boiler 
was not repairable at that stage. However, even if it were irreparable  British Gas would not 
Ref: DRN60970764have been required  to replace the boiler or provide any contribution  towards a new boiler 
under the terms  of the policy.  
In addition, there is no convincing evidence that the leaks were due to something  British Gas 
had or hadnt  done. 
Mr H says if he had been told the boiler  was rusted and corroded, he could have replaced it 
sooner and thereby avoiding this incident. He is adamant that the damage  which  led to the 
leak must have been present and visible to engineers long before and certainly by 
November 2016,  when it last serviced the boiler.  
I can see the force of his argument:  he is right that corrosion usually builds up over time and 
it is entirely possible there were some  signs of rust and corrosion in November 2016,  
although this is not proven. While it would of course have been preferable  to tell Mr H about 
this if it was noticeable, British Gas didnt have to do so if the boiler was working and there  
was no repair to be carried out. 
In addition, even  if Mr H had known about  this and as a result  decided to replace  his boiler in 
November 2016   even though it was apparently at that time working with no fault  British 
Gas would not have been obliged to pay anything towards the replacement  cost and so he 
would still have incurred  the cost of the replacement. However, Im also not convinced  that 
he would  have replaced the boiler then. Mr H says he would have done but it is difficult  to 
accept this, given  that the boiler  was working,  there was no apparent fault or leak.  All that 
would have been known was that there  were  perhaps some  signs  of corrosion.   
There was also evidence  of tape around  one area of pipework. I accept it is more  likely than 
not that the tape was put there by a British Gas engineer, given the boiler  has been covered 
by the policy  since the manufacturer warranty ran out. However, the leaks that happened in 
October 2017 were  not apparently in the same place as the tape. 
Having considered all the evidence, I am not satisfied  that the leaks  that occurred in October  
2017 were due to anything  done,  or not done,  by British Gas.  There is no evidence that the 
component that failed  and caused  the first leak was linked to the area with the tape or a 
rusted/corroded area. And theres no evidence that the subsequent  leaks  over the following 
few days were caused by the tape either or by British Gas not repairing the first leak 
properly. Given this, it has not been  established that the leaks  that occurred or replacement 
of the boiler were solely due to anything British  Gas has or hasnt done. I am not persuaded 
therefore that it would be reasonable to require it to reimburse any part of the cost of the new 
boiler to Mr H. 
Overall therefore, I do not consider Mr Hs position would be any different. The leak would 
still have occurred in October 2017 as it did. It took a few visits to try and sort out all the 
leaks on the boiler but theres no evidence that there  was anything wrong with the work 
carried out by each engineer. British Gas was attempting to repair it. I do not therefore 
consider that it is responsible for all the resultant distress and inconvenience experienced by  
Mr H. I do however, agree with the investigator  that it should  pay   the sum of £150  for the 
trouble caused  by Mr H discovering the tape and not having been made aware of this 
previously.
Mr H did receive  a discount on the new boiler. He says he should  have been  offered a higher 
discount, as British Gas as unable to repair his boiler but I am not persuaded this is required. 
Ref: DRN60970765As stated, while I can understand why Mr H decided to replace the boiler,  it has not been 
established that the original boiler was irreparable.  I dont therefore  consider British Gas 
needs to do anything more in this regard. 
my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mr Hs position,  I do not uphold the main aspects of his 
complaint. I do, however, uphold this complaint  in part and require  British  Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr H the sum of £150 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling  of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6097076