K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy with their mortgage. 
background
Mr H and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992.  Mr H and Mrs B paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. The mortgage  was in joint names whilst the cover  was in Mr Hs name only.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not because  Ive 
failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach  what I think 
is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr H and Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr H and Mrs Bs complaint. I explain why below.
Bank of Scotland Plc couldnt provide documents from the time of sale. Due to the time thats 
passed since the MPPI was sold I dont think this is unreasonable, these events happened over 27 
years ago. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect  Mr H and Mrs B to recall  in detail precisely what 
was discussed  at the time. But I dont doubt  that Mr H and Mrs B have given  us their best 
recollections of the events  of 1992. 
Where the evidence is incomplete  (as some  of it is here), or where the testimony  is contradictory,  I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what  I consider is most likely 
to have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. So Ive looked at all 
the submissions made to us to find what I think is most likely to have happened  in this case.
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Bank of Scotland Plc didnt make Mr H and Mrs B 
aware the PPI was optional. And considering how long ago the sale was in this case,  I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So having 
considered all of the submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that 
Bank of Scotland Plc wouldve made  Mr H and Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and 
that they chose  to take it, even though they may not remember that now, many  years later. 
Both parties  agree that the PPI was sold on an advised basis  to Mr H and Mrs B. So, Bank of 
Scotland Plc needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr H and 
Mrs B. I think it was suitable for Mr H and Mrs B based on their circumstances  at the time. 
Ref: DRN61202442I say this because  Mr H was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Mr H seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr H told us that he couldnt recall what his sick pay arrangements were  in 1992. But Mr H 
thought his parents would have been able to help him if he had been off work  for a long time 
through ill health. The PPI policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mr H would have 
received and would have  reduced his reliance  on any help his family may have been in a 
position to offer him to help him pay his mortgage. The PPI would have covered Mr H for up 
to 12 months if he was unable to work  because of accident, sickness,  or if he lost his job. So, 
considering all of the above and the potentially  serious implications of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home,  I think they wouldve found the PPI useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr H and Mrs 
B.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr H and Mrs B, Bank of Scotland Plc also had 
to give them clear enough information about the policy  so they could decide  if they wanted  to 
buy it. Its possible the information Bank of Scotland Plc gave Mr H and Mrs B about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I 
think the policy was suitable for them, I dont think better information wouldve  stopped  them 
from buying it. 
I know Mr H and Mrs B feel strongly and have put time and effort  into their complaint. I realise 
theyll be disappointed  by the outcome. But on balance, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  
the policy was unsuitable for them and neither do I think that Mr H and Mrs B lost out because  of 
anything Bank of Scotland Plc may have  done  wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs Bs complaint. And I make no 
award against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6120244