K820x#14complaint
Mr I and Ms M complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).  
background
In 2002 Mr I and Ms M had a meeting in a Halifax branch  with one of its advisors. They  took 
out PPI alongside a joint mortgage as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP) to 
protect their mortgage repayments. This covered  Mr I in the event  of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  their mis-sale complaint. Mr I and Ms M 
disagree. In summary,  Mr I and Ms M said they werent told about  PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr I and Ms Ms complaint.
It wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr I and Ms M can remember  about the sale 
after all this time. Where theres  only limited  information I have to look at all the available  
information and decide what I think is most likely.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used. And we already  know  
from looking at other  cases what the process  was when Halifax sold TMPP. Ive no reason to 
think that Halifax wouldnt have followed  its normal  sales process here. So I think  its likely 
that PPI was discussed and recommended for Mr I and Ms M.
And Ive seen a copy of part of the mortgage paperwork Mr I and Ms M completed.  On their 
mortgage application it says: We recommend  that you consider our TMPP which  can cover 
any planholder in the event of accident, sickness, involuntary unemployment, death and a 
named critical illness  
So I think Mr I and Ms M wouldve  been  aware at the time that it was up to them to say 
whether or not they wanted to have any of this insurance cover.
Mr I and Ms M have signed  next to where it says: Yes. We/I would like to take advantage of 
the TMPP
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr I and Ms Ms home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly  repayments  were 
protected. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. On balance,  I think its more 
likely that Mr I and Ms M decided they wanted  to have some of the benefits the policy could 
offer. And the accident, sickness and unemployment  cover  was added  to their mortgage at 
their request  when  they chose to buy it.
Ref: DRN61850832Mr I and Ms M say PPI wasnt  recommended to them. Halifax says it was  and I think its 
fair to look at this complaint on the basis that Halifax recommended PPI to Mr I and Ms M. 
Thats because if a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have to 
give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps  to make 
sure the cover it recommends is suitable.  So looking at the complaint  this way gives 
Mr I and Ms Ms complaint the best chance of success.
It doesnt look like PPI was an unsuitable recommendation based on what Ive seen  of 
Mr I and Ms Ms circumstances at the time.   
When Mr I and Ms M took out their mortgage  only Mr I was in paid work   so only he was 
eligible for the policy. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr I was unable  to work 
because of accident or sickness.  PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if 
he became unexpectedly  unemployed.  Looking at what theyve told us about their financial 
circumstances at the time, it looks like the PPI provided Mr I and Ms M with significantly 
better protection that they wouldve had otherwise.
I dont know how long Ms M wouldve been able to keep up the mortgage monthly 
repayments on her own if Mr I was unable to work. PPI provided dependable cover that 
protected their home  so it couldve  been  a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
I think the PPI was suitable.  
Mr I wasnt affected by any of the main  conditions limiting the policys benefits. So I think  it 
unlikely that better information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve put 
Mr I and Ms M off taking  out the cover.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr I and Ms M about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out and appear to have wanted this type 
of cover.  Ive seen  nothing to suggest it was unaffordable for them. Taking  into account the 
cost and the monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful claim was made  I think  the 
policy couldve provided Mr I and Ms M with a worthwhile  benefit.  
Overall, I think it unlikely  that Mr I and Ms M wouldve made  a different decision about taking 
out PPI if Halifax had given them better information. So, even if there were failings in the way 
Halifax sold them PPI, I dont find theyve  lost out as a result of anything that Halifax mightve 
done wrong.
 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give back  to Mr I and Ms M some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr I and Ms Ms 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr I and Ms M paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
Ref: DRN61850833my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6185083