K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining that Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) cancelled  his home 
emergency insurance policy after his boiler  became  heavily contaminated and didnt  work  
properly. He thinks Homeserve caused this contamination.  
background
Mr S had a home emergency policy for his boiler over a number  of years.  It used to be 
provided by a different business   who I shall call HES  and the policy transferred to 
Homeserve in March  2017. The policy provided by Homeserve  was underwritten by a 
separate insurer.
Mr Ss boiler stopped  working correctly and Homeserve arranged for an engineer to inspect 
it. The engineer  said that the system  was heavily contaminated. A series of repairs were 
carried out, including an attempt to decontaminate the system by carrying out a chemical  
clean, but these werent successful. So Homeserve gave Mr S 28 days to clear the 
decontamination or it said it would cancel the policy. Mr S didnt do so, so the policy  was 
cancelled. However,  Homeserve took a further payment for the annual premium  after it 
cancelled the policy. It refunded this to him and also paid compensatory interest.
Homeserve acknowledged that it didnt respond or acknowledge Mr Ss concerns as quickly 
as it should have done, which it said caused delays in the handling of the claim. So it offered 
him £100 in compensation. 
Our adjudicator said that we couldnt  look at the majority  of the complaint as it wasnt in our 
jurisdiction  in particular in respect  to the way the claim was handled. He said he could look 
at the way that Homeserve had administered the insurance policy.  And he thought it had 
caused some delays. But he thought £100  was fair compensation. 
Mr S didnt agree that we couldnt look at this complaint.  He said Homeserve is a regulated  
company and he provided the terms and conditions which he says show that the policy it 
provided was a regulated insurance policy. He says £100 doesnt  come close  to covering the 
financial losses, distress and inconvenience this matter has caused  him.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there are three fundamental issues that Mr S is effectively raising:
1.Did Homeserve or the previous policy provider cause the contamination?
2.Was it fair that Mr S was told he had to pay to fix the contamination or the policy  would 
be cancelled? 
3.Has Homeserve offered fair compensation for the customer service its provided?
The adjudicator said that we cant look at points (1) and (2) in this complaint. I appreciate  
Mr S feels  strongly about this, but I agree with the adjudicator. I know  this will disappoint 
Mr S, but Ill explain why we cant look at this.
Ref: DRN67957942did Homeserve or the previous policy provider cause the contamination?
Mr S thinks  that the contamination may have occurred during a repair carried out in 2016   
in particular when  the heater exchanger was replaced. Mr Ss home emergency policy was 
provided by HES at the time, not Homeserve.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt able to consider every complaint that were asked to 
look at. Our powers to consider complaints  are set out in the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (FSMA) and in rules, known as the Dispute Resolution Rules  (DISP) written  by the 
FCA in accordance with the powers it derives  from FSMA.  These form part of the FCA 
Handbook.
This service is only able to consider complaints against businesses that came under either 
our compulsory or voluntary jurisdiction at the time the issue  took place. This service hasnt 
ever had jurisdiction to consider complaints about the actions of HES. So even if the policy 
was a regulated  policy  at the time, as we are unable to consider the actions of HES, we cant 
consider this aspect  of the complaint.
Mr S has provided his policy documentation which he says shows that the policy was 
regulated and that we can consider complaints  relating  to it. But this policy  relates to the 
cover provided since it was transferred to Homeserve in March  2017. And this was after the 
work which Mr S thinks caused  the contamination.
was it fair that Mr S was told he had to pay to fix the contamination  or the policy would be 
cancelled?
In this complaint  I can only look at the actions of Homeserve.  While the policy is sold and 
administered by Homeserve, its not the insurer of the policy.  And its ultimately the insurer 
whos responsible  for the way that the claim was handled. I cant  hold Homeserve 
responsible for this. And Mr S will have to direct this aspect of the complaint to the insurer.
has Homeserve offered fair compensation for the customer service its provided?
As the broker and administrator of the policy, Homeserve had a responsibility to respond to 
Mr Ss queries in a reasonable  timeframe and arrange for them to be actioned accordingly. 
Ive reviewed the communication between Mr S and Homeserve. And this shows  that there  
were a number of emails  that Homeserve didnt respond to within a fair timeframe.  I dont 
think the communication surrounding the cancellation of the policy was adequate either. I 
cant see that Homeserve  made it clear  to Mr S that it had cancelled  the policy. And it 
appears that Mr S only found out about  this a few months later. 
However, Homeserve has already offered  Mr S £100 in compensation and I think  thats fair 
compensation. I appreciate that Mr S feels that this doesnt come close to covering the 
financial losses, distress and inconvenience this matter has caused  him. But I think  the 
majority of his unhappiness  in this matter is due to the fact that his boiler  hasnt been  
repaired. And as I said, Im unable to consider that in this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I think  Homeserve Membership 
Limited has offered  fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr S has suffered 
Ref: DRN67957943as a result  of the way its administered the policy. It should pay this to Mr S directly. But Im 
unable to consider  Mr Ss complaint about whether Homeserve, or HES caused the boiler  to 
be contaminated or that it wasnt repaired under the home  emergency  policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6795794