K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Prestige Underwriting  Services Ltd  wont  pay his claim for storm 
damage to his roof and the inside of his house under his home insurance. 
background
In March 2018 Mr P reported damage  to his property following a snowstorm. Prestige sent 
out a loss adjuster who reported  that the damage to the property was caused  by snow 
melting and not by a storm. Mr P also said that his skylight  had been  blown out by the storm. 
Prestige said that the window  had slipped and wasnt near the internal water damage.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that, following a review of the weather  
records, there wasnt a storm. He didnt think it had been shown that there  was any visible 
damage to the roof or chimney.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He further pointed out we hadnt 
considered that his skylight had been  blown out by the storm. The matter was passed  to me 
for review.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision and made the following findings:
As our investigator correctly advised Mr P, when considering storm cases  we ask three  
questions. Its only if the answer to all those questions is yes that we would be likely to 
uphold the complaint. Those questions are:
1. Was there a storm on or around  the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
was there  a storm?
For there to be cover  under a home insurance  policy there has to be a single identifiable 
storm event. Storm is defined in the policy as:
Strong winds of 47 mph or more, sometimes accompanied  by rain, hail or snow and/or 
heavy rain (in excess of 25mm or more  over an hour period or a proportionate  amount over 
a shorter time).
In order to decide if there was a storm Ive looked  at the weather records. I know Mr P 
doubts their accuracy  but without any other evidence  of the weather on the day(s) leading  up 
to the claim, I think its reasonable to rely on them. They record  that on the day before the 
claim there was a peak  wind gust of 45 mph. They also show that there was a build-up of 
snow from over four days which, on the day of the claim,  reached  a depth of 22cm (not mm 
as we previously said).  Whilst the definition in the policy refers to winds of over 47mph I think 
that bearing in mind  the weather station was 8 miles away, its reasonable to say there most 
likely was a storm on the day before the claim was made.
Ref: DRN61421192was the damage  consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
The damage here was said to be to the roof, chimney and skylight.  Also there was internal 
damage caused by the water coming  in. The loss adjuster didnt identify any damage  to the 
roof. Prestige determined  that any damage  was caused by melting snow  and I think  it 
unlikely that a sound roof would be damaged  by the storm as described.  The skylight  wasnt 
mentioned in the loss adjusters report but after we asked Prestige for clarification the loss 
adjuster said the window  had slipped. Mr P contends  that it was blown  out but I havent 
seen any evidence that that was the case. 
But we say generally that internal water  damage would be consistent  with storm damage.
was the storm the main  cause of the damage?
I will go on to consider  this, in respect  of the internal damage and because there is some 
doubt about the circumstances of the damage. It is for Mr P to show  that his property was 
damaged by the storm. Whilst  I appreciate  that there was a strong wind, I dont think it likely 
that it caused damage to the roof, especially as no such damage  was noted at the time. And 
I dont think the fall of snow  itself would have damaged the roof. There is no evidence  also 
that the weight  of snow on the day of the storm caused any damage. Mr P says the skylight 
was blown out, but Prestige says the glass  had slipped. While  very strong  winds could break 
glass I havent seen  evidence that glass was blown out by the wind.
As for the internal damage,  the only conclusion I can reach, based  on the evidence is that 
this was caused by snow building up over several days and then thawing quickly.  So I dont 
think it was caused  by a single storm event.
So overall I dont  think the damage  to Mr Ps property was caused by a storm.
Mr Ps response is that he believes Im in contradiction with myself  in that I said the roof 
wasnt damaged  when there is evidence that the skylight was blown out and he was told to 
repair the damage to the roof himself. He has surveys to show the roof was in good 
condition before the storm. He has produced photos of the damage to the skylight. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I didnt say the roof wasnt damaged  I said the loss adjusters couldnt identify any damage  
to the roof. And I should clarify  that that means storm damage.  As I understand it Mr P was 
told to renew the pointing  around the chimney  and to make it weather proof. My conclusion 
was however that any damage to the roof was caused by melting  snow rather than the storm 
which unfortunately isnt something that is covered under the policy. Storm damage  to a roof 
would generally  be something that is caused by very strong winds eg tiles blowing off. 
Whilst Mr P asserts that the skylight was blown out, I havent  seen  evidence  that that is the 
case. The photo hes produced shows the glass has slipped out. I think  it unlikely that a 
soundly fitted skylight would be blown out of its frame by the winds described in the weather 
report. And if it had I think its unlikely  it would remain in-tact and just out of place, as though 
it had slipped.
Ref: DRN61421193So overall I havent changed  my view about  this case. My provisional  findings as set out 
above are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6142119