K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in connection with a re-
mortgage. Nationwide cant say for sure when the policy was sold, but Mr and Mrs C re-
mortgaged in 1990. Its possible that they bought the policy  at the same time. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  because I dont think  Nationwide  gave them  
clear enough  information  about  the policy. I say this because the terms of the PPI certificate 
say:
This certificate does  not cover:
(e) disability or unemployment resulting from any physical or mental  defect, infirmity or 
recurring disease of which  the Insured Person is aware or has suffered in the 12 months  
immediately preceding the commencement  date of the insurance;
I think this would have  mattered to Mr and Mrs C because Mr C had an undiagnosed 
medical condition  when the policy was sold. He didnt have a formal diagnosis  at the time, 
but from what Ive seen Im satisfied  that hed experienced symptoms of the condition  since 
1985. And Mr C had periodic medical tests and consultations about his condition between  
1985 and 1995 when  a diagnosis was established.  
So when the policy was sold Mr C wouldnt  have  been able to make a successful disability 
claim in connection  with his condition. I dont  think Mr and Mrs C would have bought  the 
policy if theyd had enough information  about  it. So, I think  Mr and Mrs C have lost out 
because of what the business  did wrong.  
Ive taken into account Nationwides comments, including what it said about the information 
Mr and Mrs C were given when  the policy was sold, and the likelihood  that better information 
wouldnt have changed their decision to buy the policy. But the points  Nationwide  has made 
dont change my decision  to uphold the complaint.  Ive set out my reasons below.
Ref: DRN63536282Nationwide says Mr and Mrs C wouldve been  given  a leaflet  about  the PPI when they 
bought the policy. The section of the leaflet headed Exclusions says:
Of course, with any insurance cover  there  are some exclusions.  With Nationwide  Anglias 
Mortgage Payments  Protection Plan the main  ones are:
4. Medical conditions from which the borrower  has suffered or been  aware in the 12 
months preceding  the insurance
Nationwide says the insurance certificate  (which I referred to earlier  in this decision) 
wouldve been sent to Mr and Mrs C once the cover had started.
I accept that the leaflet  sets out the things that arent  covered by the policy. But Im also 
mindful that sale of the PPI took place as part of a re-mortgage application, and that Mr and 
Mrs C were likely to have been given significant amounts of information  during that process. 
On balance I think its unlikely they wouldve had an opportunity to study the PPI leaflet in 
detail during the application process. And even if they had, the exclusion that affected Mr C 
was presented in fairly small writing, towards  the end of the policy leaflet.
The specific  policy  terms werent  sent to Mr and Mrs C until after the cover  had started.  So 
overall, from what Ive seen, I think its unlikely that Nationwide pointed out the exclusion that 
affected Mr C at the time the policy was sold.
Nationwide considers it pointed out the exclusion to Mr C, and that he and Mrs C decided to 
buy the cover anyway. It says that during the complaint  Mr C had said he hadnt had to take 
any time off work because  of his condition  and I accept thats the case.
But Im mindful of the nature  of the condition that Mr C was suffering  from. He hadnt had a 
diagnosis when the policy was sold, but a referral to a consultant  in 1988 suggests medical 
professionals thought  the underlying condition might have been particularly serious. So even 
though Mr C didnt  have to take time off from work  because of his condition, I think  he knew  
he had a condition  that was potentially  very debilitating if it occurred again. 
As such,  if Nationwide  had told Mr C that he wouldnt  be able to claim on the policy  in 
connection with his condition, I think its unlikely that he and Mrs C wouldve bought the 
policy. 
So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
what the business should  do to put things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
Ref: DRN63536283If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide  
must give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs C in line with the instructions above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6353628