K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about issues shes experienced with a car purchased with finance from 
Oodle Financial Services Limited (OFS).
background
In May 2018  Miss B was supplied with a  car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with OFS.
In September  2018 Miss B was involved in an accident. The car was taken to a garage  for 
assessment on behalf of Miss Bs insurance  company. The garage told Miss B that the car 
had been in a previous collision  and that the repair was of a poor standard.
Miss B reported her concerns to OFS. The car was inspected  by a second  garage who said 
the car hadnt  been in a previous collision.  OFS told Miss B that she should arrange any 
necessary repairs via her insurance company.
Miss B remained unhappy. She complained to OFS that there were outstanding issues with 
the door lock which shed  told it about previously and which  hadnt  been repaired.
OFS told Miss B that she should book the car in at a local garage  to have the door lock 
repaired under  warranty.
Miss B said she went to her local garage but it wasnt able to undertake the necessary work 
to repair  the door lock. She contacted OFS and asked to reject the car. OFS refused. It said 
Miss B had purchased a used car and should expect to have to repair  and/or replace parts 
from time to time. It also said Miss B should contact her warranty  company and ask it to 
provide her with details  of a garage  that could carry out repairs to the door lock. 
Miss B wasnt happy with the response from OFS so she complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Miss B had the right to reject the car 
because the garage had been given an opportunity to repair  it when it had been returned  for 
a repair  on the gearbox but hadnt  repaired the door lock. The investigator said the fault with 
the door lock was likely  to have been present or developing at the point of supply.
OFS didnt agree. It said that whilst  the (successfully repaired) gearbox wouldve made the 
car of unsatisfactory quality, the fault with the rear door lock wasnt  sufficiently serious to 
render the car of unsatisfactory  quality. OFS said it was unfortunate that the dealer had 
omitted to repair the door lock when it repaired the gearbox but said it had tried to make a 
further appointment with Miss B to repair the lock which shed failed to keep. OFS said the 
door lock was a minor fault which couldve  been  easily fixed with cooperation from Miss B.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because OFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory  quality. Satisfactory is what a  reasonable person would regard as 
acceptable, taking  into account factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose,  
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Ref: DRN68078582Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a consumer has the right to reject a faulty car within 
the first 30 days and receive a full refund. After 30 days, its generally up to the business  to 
put things right, unless it can show that the fault wasnt present or developing at the point of 
supply. The business is allowed one attempt to repair  the car. If the repair isnt successful 
the consumer  can reject the car.
Ive read and considered the whole  file but Ill concentrate my comments on what  I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point  its not because  Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about  it but because I dont  think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach what  I 
think is the right outcome.
Miss B experienced an issue with the gearbox  and the door lock within the first 6 months. Its 
therefore presumed that these issues were present or developing at the point of supply  
unless the business can show otherwise. I havent  seen any evidence to suggest  that either 
of these issues were due to wear  and tear. Ive taken account  of the age and mileage of the 
car, but I dont think a reasonable  person would expect  the gearbox to need repairing or the 
door locks  to fail within the first 6 months of purchase.
The car was returned to the dealer for repairs  to the gearbox and its been  acknowledged by 
OFS that the dealer omitted to repair the door lock at this time. Im persuaded that this was 
the businesses  opportunity to repair the faults with the car and it failed to repair  all of them.  
Because of this, Im satisfied that Miss B is within her rights  to reject the car.
OFS has said that Miss B failed to attend several appointments to have the lock repaired.  I 
havent seen any evidence to show that this was the case. Even if further  appointments were  
made for Miss B, Im satisfied that the business  had already had its one opportunity to repair 
the fault with the lock.
Ive taken account of what  OFS has said about  a door lock not being a significant  fault.  Miss 
B has explained that her young child travels  in the back  of the car. There are possible safety 
and security consequences with a fault of this kind and Im of the view that this makes  the 
fault significant enough to render the car of unsatisfactory quality.
OFS has said that it cant accept a rejection because the car has been  in an accident since  
the point of supply. I appreciate the point which has been made but in this case,  approved 
repairs have been  carried out at the instruction of Miss B;s insurance  company and theres  
no evidence to suggest that the car should  have been written off or that the standard of 
repairs was poor.
On balance, Im persuaded that the fault with the lock was present or developing at the point 
of supply and wasnt successfully repaired. Im also of the view that this type of fault renders 
the car of unsatisfactory quality. Miss B should be allowed  to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Oodle Financial Services Limited  should:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Miss B.
Refund Miss Bs deposit together with simple  interest at 8% per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £100 for distress  and inconvenience
Ref: DRN68078583Remove any adverse  information relating to the agreement from Miss Bs credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2020
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6807858