K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy that TSB Bank plc made  transactions on her account without her 
permission. Shes also unhappy with the service she received in branch. 
background
Earlier this year, Miss G went to her local TSB branch to reset her online banking.  
Unfortunately, the branch was closed  due to a power cut. Miss G got a taxi to another  
branch, which  was able to remove  the blocks on her online account. Miss G says the branch 
manager she dealt  with was rude and kept her waiting. And she didnt want to deal with the 
cashier as she knew someone  in their family. Miss G thought this would be a data breach.
On her way home, Miss G received a text about  a payment going through on her account. 
She didnt  recognise  the transaction or the person whod been paid. Her statements showed  
£100 had been transferred to this individual  but also that theyd paid £200 into her 
account. 
When Miss G complained, TSB said the payments had been  put through in error and related 
to another customer. It reversed the transactions and offered  Miss G £250  compensation, 
plus £50 to cover her taxi fare and call costs.  
Miss G wasnt happy with this. She said her account was frozen, which impacted her quality 
of life. And she had a significant amount in savings which  couldve been  moved.  Our 
investigator considered  this complaint  and thought  TSBs offer was fair. Miss G disagreed.  
She said shed be willing  to accept £500.  So the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss G, I wont be asking TSB to do 
anything further.  Ill explain why. 
Ive first of all considered  the transactions that were incorrectly processed on Miss Gs 
account. Both sides accept that TSB made  a mistake. Whats in disagreement  is whether 
TSB has done enough to address the impact  this had on Miss G. 
Ive considered what the impact was. Its important to note that our service isnt here to 
punish businesses.  We award compensation for actual loss or damage (whether financial or 
otherwise). Although the transactions  were put through in error, Miss G wasnt left out of 
pocket. More money was transferred into her account  than was taken out. And the 
transactions were  reversed within a few days.  Although Miss G has pointed out that more  
money could have been moved, I dont think its fair to consider speculative  losses. So Ive 
only addressed  losses  she has suffered. Taking  into account the compensation offered for 
Miss Gs call costs  and taxi fare, Im satisfied theres  no outstanding financial loss.
Ref: DRN69097622That said,  this incident clearly had a non-financial impact. It caused Miss G worry and upset. 
Shes also mentioned  her account being  frozen.  TSB says no block  was added  after the 
transactions went through. Miss Gs statements  show a benefit payment going  in and a 
standing order going out during this period. So on balance, it seems her account wasnt  
frozen. It may be that Miss G is referring  to the earlier online banking  issues which caused 
her to go into branch  (Ill go into these a bit later on). But even if a block  was added when 
Miss G complained, Im satisfied the £250 TSB has offered is sufficient to reflect the overall 
worry and upset this incident caused.  This takes  into account that TSB dealt with the 
complaint and reversed the transactions quickly, which lessened  the impact.  
Ive also considered the circumstances of Miss Gs branch  visit. She went in as her online 
banking was blocked. I appreciate this was frustrating, but our service  generally wont  
interfere with processes  that fall within the legitimate  commercial discretion of a business. 
TSB has told us the block was applied due to fraud prevention. TSB has a duty to protect its 
customers from fraud, so the block was a legitimate commercial judgement for TSB to make. 
I wouldnt expect TSB to compensate Miss G for any upset  this caused.
Its unfortunate that Miss Gs normal branch was closed, particularly as I understand she had 
difficulty getting around at the time  and Im sorry to hear about  this. But TSB offered to 
reimburse Miss G for the cost of getting  a taxi to another branch so Im satisfied this is a fair 
way to put this right.
Miss G felt the bank  manager she dealt with was rude and kept her waiting. She was also 
concerned about  being  served by the cashier  as she knew  someone in their family. As our 
investigator has pointed  out, theres  no data protection  issue  with Miss G being served by 
someone she has a connection  to. The available  information doesnt make  it particularly 
clear whether the service given in branch fell below the expected  standard. But even if there 
were service  failings, all I can consider  is whether Miss G has been fairly compensated for 
these. Im satisfied that the compensation shes been offered covers the upset she says she 
was caused by poor service in branch, in addition to the worry and upset caused by the 
transaction error. 
TSB has offered to pay Miss G £300  overall,  consisting of £50 for the financial impact of its 
errors and £250  for the non-financial  impact.  Given everything Ive said above,  I think  this is 
fair so I wont be asking TSB to do any more. 
Ref: DRN69097623my final decision
TSB Bank plc has made an offer to pay Miss G £300. My decision is that TSB Bank plc 
should pay this  if it hasnt already done so  within 28 days  of receiving notice of Miss Gs 
acceptance of my decision.
Miss G should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties. If 
she rejects the decision, although her legal rights  will remain intact,  itll be purely  a matter 
between her and TSB Bank plc as to whether the offer still remains open  for acceptance. 
Strictly speaking, the offer wouldnt be binding on TSB Bank plc after Miss Gs rejection of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6909762