K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about how The Prudential Assurance Company Limited assessed the 
transfer of his pension benefits. Hes unhappy with their decision that it wasnt  in his best 
interests to transfer one of the scheme  benefits,  the amount of time it took to carry out the 
analysis and the service  that they provided.
background 
I attach my provisional decision of 24 January 2019, which forms part of this decision. In my 
provisional decision I set out why I intended  to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I invited both parties  
to provide any further evidence or arguments  that they wanted me to consider before I made 
my final decision.
Prudential accepted the outcome that I reached in my provisional decision.  They explained 
however that the redress methodology I proposed directed them  to increase Mr Ms 
Retirement Account in the event a loss was found.  But as this may be considered as an 
unauthorised payment,  and therefore  subject  to a tax charge, any loss identified  would be 
paid directly to Mr M. 
Mr M accepted the provisional decision and confirmed that he was a basic  rate taxpayer.
I explained to both parties that I intended to direct Prudential to pay any loss identified  to 
Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow  for income  tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would  be tax-free  and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ms income  tax rate confirmed as 20%. So making a notional  
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately  reflects  this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr M nor Prudential have objected  to my provisional decision or to the change of 
redress methodology that Ive since set out. I therefore find no reason  to depart from my 
earlier conclusions. 
Ref: DRN62006202my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right, I order The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to do the following:
Contact the scheme B provider and obtain  a CETV with a statement date of 18 
August 2017.
Use the 28 March 2018  as the date Mr M wouldve received the funds  in his account.
Deduct £35,000  to reflect the tax free cash taken by Mr M.
Deduct the same  monthly  income  payments that Mr M has taken.
Compare this value  against the current value of Mr Ms account   assuming the 
funds were invested on the same basis.
If a loss is identified  then The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay this 
directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow  for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 75% 
would have been taxed according to Mr Ms income  tax rate confirmed  as 20%. So 
making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. If 
there is no loss found then no action needs  to be taken.
Pay £400 compensation to Mr M for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62006203Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M complains about  how The Prudential Assurance  Company  Limited assessed the transfer of his 
pension benefits. Hes unhappy with their decision that it wasnt in his best interests to transfer one of 
the scheme benefits, the amount of time it took to carry out the analysis  and the service  that they 
provided.
background
Mr M held pension benefits  in two schemes that hed accrued from a former employer. He met with a 
Prudential adviser on 17 July 2017  to discuss the transfer of these benefits. It was recorded that Mr M 
had chosen to retire early when  he was made redundant about 18 months prior to this meeting,  at the 
age of 63, rather  than seek re-employment. To cover his expenditure costs of about  £10,000 per year 
during these 18 months he used redundancy money and savings. But he wanted to use benefits from 
the two pension  schemes  to fund his retirement going forward.
At the time of the meeting, the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) for one of the schemes had 
already expired and the other was due to expire  at the end of August. This meant new CETVs had to 
be requested. Prudentials  records  show they first contacted  the schemes  to request new CETVs on 
20 September 2017.
An updated CETV of £192,400 was sent to Prudential from one of the pension schemes  (scheme  A) 
on 5 October  2017. This was guaranteed until 3 January 2018.
The second  scheme  (scheme B) sent an updated CETV of £163,110.46 on 27 October 2017. This 
was guaranteed until 24 April 2018  six months  from the statement  date of 24 October 2017.
A transfer analysis was carried out by Prudential for the scheme A benefits  on 16 November  2017. 
This explained that to replace the benefits provided  by the former scheme, an annual investment 
return of 64.3% was required up to retirement. It also said that in the event  the former scheme was 
underfunded and ultimately became insolvent, a lower  level of benefits  may be provided  by the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF). And that an annual investment  return  of 38.8% up to retirement 
would be required to match the benefits that would be provided by the PPF.
Prudential then ran scheme A through their retirement modeller on 12 December 2017. And on 18 
December 2017 they called Mr M informing him of their decision for him to retain his pension  benefits  
in the scheme. 
A transfer analysis was carried out by Prudential for the scheme B benefits  on 12 February  2018.  This 
explained that to replace  the benefits provided by the former scheme, an annual investment return  of 
31.7% was required up to retirement. It also said that in the event the former scheme  was 
underfunded and ultimately became insolvent, a lower  level of benefits  may be provided  by the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF). And that an annual investment  return  of 0% up to retirement would 
be required to match the benefits that would  be provided by the PPF.
Prudential then also ran scheme  A through their retirement modeller on 12 February  2018.
A suitability  report was completed  by Prudential  on 28 February  2018 which recommended the 
transfer of Mr Ms pension benefits with scheme B to a Prudential Retirement Account. Mr M 
subsequently met with the Prudential adviser on 12 March 2018 and the necessary paperwork was 
signed and forwarded to the scheme a couple days later. Scheme B transferred the funds to Mr Ms 
Prudential Retirement Account on 30 April 2018 and they were received on 3 May 2018.  Mr M took 
£35,000 of his pension  fund as tax free cash and a monthly income of £833.33 since.
Ref: DRN62006204Prudential sent Mr M a letter  on 16 March 2018 confirming that they didnt think  it was in his interests 
to transfer scheme A pension benefits at that time.
Mr M complained to Prudential about their decision not to transfer his scheme  A benefits.  He was 
unhappy that the two schemes hadnt  been evaluated as one transfer, with the amount of time this 
analysis was taking and also with the service they provided  particularly in respect of the lack of 
communication. 
Prudential acknowledged his dissatisfaction and that his dealings with them  had not been as smooth 
as they shouldve  been. They explained  that it initially  seemed that the transfers would be viable and 
so this is why the team wouldve been enthusiastic about pursuing it for him. But there were delays 
along the way such as having  to obtain new CETVs from the two pension schemes. And although 
there were a few weeks left on the CETV(s) the process usually takes a minimum of three months.
They went on to explain that after receiving the updated CETVs  they passed them to their pension 
transfer specialist. And unfortunately in Mr Ms case they came to the decision that the transfer of 
scheme A wasnt something they could recommend,  although there was a different outcome for 
scheme B. They said it was their belief that there was more  financial danger in transferring than in not 
doing so, and they couldnt see any way they could  grant an exception. They  did however  accept  that 
Mr M shouldve been informed of their decision sooner along with the reasoning for it. So they offered  
£400 in recognition of this.
Mr M brought  his complaint to our service. Our adjudicator looked in to it but he didnt think Prudential  
had to do anything  further. He thought their decision to advise against the transfer of scheme  A 
benefits was reasonable and that the £400  theyd  offered for the delays was sufficient. 
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand Mr M is unhappy that Prudential  assessed the suitability of transferring the two schemes  
separately. And that hes also questioned why the drawdown sum he required of £10,000  per year 
was assessed against  the CETV  of scheme A, rather than the combined CETV of both schemes. 
Although I appreciate Mr Ms views  on this, I think it would be helpful to explain that the schemes  had 
to be looked at separately as they provided different benefits  that he would be giving up as result of 
transferring. Prudential  therefore had to carry out their analysis to determine whether or not the CETV  
that was offered by each  scheme was enough  to justify doing so. 
The critical yield figures, which provide an indication  as to whether a transfer would  be worthwhile,  
were based  on a number of factors including - amongst  others    the CETV offered, the benefits 
provided by the existing scheme and reasonable  assumptions  of future investment  growth if 
transferred. I appreciate Mr M thinks the drawdown sum of £10,000 ought to have been adjusted to 
reflect the CETV of each  scheme.  But this doesnt change the critical  yields that were  calculated to 
determine the level of growth  required  for each scheme to be able to provide the same level of 
benefits that would be given up if transferred.  I therefore dont think  Prudential  acted wrongly by 
looking at the transfer of the two schemes separately, or that the analysis  of whether it was in Mr Ms 
bests interests to transfer was carried out inappropriately.
I have however looked at how long it took Prudential  to carry out their analysis of the transfer of the 
two schemes. Having done so, I think Prudential ought  to have contacted  the pension schemes  to 
request new CETVs sooner.  Im not aware of any reason to explain why Prudential took until 20 
September 2017, about  two months after Mr Ms meeting with the adviser,  to do this. I think this was 
an unnecessary delay that couldve been avoided. Ive therefore considered the impact this delay had 
Ref: DRN62006205on assessing the suitability  of transferring  the two schemes. Ive looked at the scheme  benefits 
separately.
scheme A
Pension scheme A sent an updated CETV to Prudential  on 5 October 2017. A transfer analysis  was 
then completed by Prudential on 16 November  2017 and ran through their retirement  modeller on 12 
December 2017. Prudential then spoke with Mr M on 18 December 2017 to explain that their decision 
was that it was in his best interests to retain his scheme A benefits.
Although I realise  Mr Ms dissatisfaction with how long this took,  I dont think it was an unreasonable 
amount of time. Assessing the suitability  of transferring  pension benefits  is a complex matter and it 
can take several months. So I dont think a period  of about two and a half months is unusually long. 
And given  Prudentials decision  was to retain  the scheme  benefits,  I dont think the delay in requesting 
a new CETV adversely impacted Mr M. This is because the process of assessing  the suitability of 
transferring the pension benefits was always going to take some time.  And the CETV  was only 
guaranteed until 3 January 2018  about three months. So following Prudentials  decision to retain the 
scheme benefits, it was always  likely  that Mr M was going to have to obtain a further CETV if he still 
wanted his benefits  transferred through seeking advice elsewhere.
Ive also looked at Prudentials decision that it was in Mr Ms best interest to retain  his scheme  A 
benefits. While I know he may be unhappy with the decision, I dont think  it was unreasonable  based 
on the critical yields that were obtained as part of the transfer analysis.  I say this as in Mr Ms case 
the critical yields were  extremely  high  even  in the event the scheme  became underfunded or 
insolvent  so I dont think Prudentials recommendation to retain the scheme benefits was 
inappropriate.
It follows that I dont think Prudential needs to do anything further in respect of Mr Ms scheme  A 
benefits.
scheme B
Pension scheme B sent an updated CETV to Prudential  on 27 October. Prudential completed a 
transfer analysis, as well as running it through their retirement modeller, on 12 February 2018. A 
suitability report was subsequently completed at the end of February and Mr M met with the adviser 
on 12 March 2018 to complete the necessary paperwork. The scheme benefits were transferred at 
the end of April and the funds were received in Mr Ms Prudential Retirement Account on 3 May 2018.  
The entire  transfer process, from receipt of the updated CETV, took about six months.
I understand Mr M says he was told the process usually takes less than three months and so his 
expectations therefore were  that the transfer of his benefits wouldve happened much sooner. That 
said, and as Ive previously  explained, assessing the suitability of transferring pension benefits is a 
complex matter. So although  I think it couldve  been done  quicker, I again dont think  the overall  time 
it took, from receipt of the updated  CETV, was necessarily too long. Prudential took about four 
months to carry  out their transfer analysis and complete the suitability  report  for Mr M. Following this, 
the transfer of Mr Ms scheme benefits was also reliant on the scheme  provider  and so it wasnt 
entirely in Prudentials  control. Overall, Im not persuaded Prudential caused any undue delay during 
this period.
It follows that I dont think Prudential caused any further significant delay other than not requesting the 
CETV sooner.  But, given the decision was to transfer the scheme B benefits, the delay in not 
requesting the CETV sooner  has potentially caused Mr M to suffer a financial loss due to possibly 
missing out on a higher CETV as well as the opportunity  of investment growth. I therefore  think  
Prudential needs to carry out a comparison, based on benefits being transferred  earlier, to see if Mr M 
has suffered  a loss. 
Ref: DRN62006206To do this I think Prudential should contact the scheme B provider to find out what the CETV of Mr 
Ms benefits  wouldve been with a statement date of 18 August 2017.  Ive chosen this date on the 
basis Prudential requested  the CETV at the time of the initial meeting, rather  than on 20 September 
2017, and that it wouldve still taken the scheme provider  the same  24 working days  to calculate. I 
realise this isnt necessarily the statement date that wouldve been provided had it been requested 
sooner, but I think its reasonable to use in the circumstances.
On the assumption the subsequent process of transferring the scheme benefits  wouldve taken the 
same amount of time, Prudential  should look at the difference of what  the value of Mr Ms Prudential 
Retirement Account would be had the funds, from the CETV of 18 August 2017, likewise  been 
received 24 working days earlier  so on 28 March 2018.  Prudential should assume  the funds 
wouldve been  invested in the same  way.
Ive also considered whether, as part of the loss comparison, Prudential ought  to take in to account 
that Mr M couldve taken additional income had it been  transferred earlier.  But, having  done so, Im 
not persuaded  that this delay severely impacted  Mr M in this respect or that Prudential  need to this in 
to account. Ill explain  why.
Mr M didnt take the full 25% tax free cash available to him and Im aware that it was recorded at the 
time of the meeting that he wanted £35,000 tax free cash. So I dont he wouldve  taken  any more tax 
free cash even if the CETV was higher.  On balance I think its most  likely he wouldve taken  the same 
amount. 
If the transfer went through earlier Mr M couldve  received  additional monthly  payment(s). But this 
wouldve reduced  the value  of his pension fund.  So Mr M still has that money available to him and he 
couldve taken more than the £833.33 monthly income if he required it. So I dont think hes been 
significantly disadvantaged  as a result of this. I therefore believe it would be fair, and simpler, for 
Prudential to carry out the comparison based on Mr M having taken  the same amount  of tax free cash  
as well as the same monthly income payments.
If the comparison shows  Mr Ms Prudential Retirement  Account would  be greater had the earlier 
CETV been obtained and transferred sooner,  than Prudential should increase  Mr Ms account to 
reflect this. 
Ive also considered the £400 Prudential  has offered Mr M. I know Mr M feels  very strongly  that this 
isnt sufficient  but taking everything in to consideration, I think it is a reasonable amount to recognise 
the trouble and upset this matter has caused him. Im therefore not intending to increase it further.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right, I intend to order The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited to do the following:
Ref: DRN62006207Contact the scheme B provider and obtain a CETV with a statement  date of 18 August  2017.
Use the 28 March  2018  as the date Mr M wouldve received  the funds  in his account.
Deduct  £35,000 to reflect the tax free cash taken by Mr M.
Deduct  the same monthly income  payments that Mr M has taken.
Compare this value against the current value of Mr Ms account  assuming the funds  were 
invested on the same  basis.
If a loss is identified then The Prudential  Assurance  Company Limited should  increase Mr Ms 
Prudential Retirement Account to reflect this. If there is no loss found then no action needs to 
be taken.
Pay £400  compensation  to Mr M for the trouble  and upset this matter  has caused.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6200620