K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc gave him incorrect  information about a new credit 
card account. 
background
Mr K had a credit  card account with Bank of Scotland. In early  2019 he says whilst in a 
branch he was told about a new credit card account  which would benefit from promotional  
interest rates on purchases and balance transfers. He says he was told by switching  from his 
old account to the new account  his existing balance would become interest free for 20 
months. He says on this basis he switched  to the new account. 
A short time later he found the balance (about £700)  from his old account had been  
transferred to his new account, but that hed been charged interest on it. He didnt think  this 
was right so he queried it with Bank  of Scotland. He was told the promotion only applied  to 
balances transferred from other lenders,  so it was correct for his existing Bank of Scotland 
balance to be subject  to the general  interest rates  applicable on his new account. 
Mr K didnt think this was fair so he complained. Bank of Scotland  looked into the matter. It 
accepted it was likely Mr K had been misinformed in branch. To put things right it offered to 
pay him £75 compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused and £12 to cover  the 
cost of his phone calls. It also agreed  to refund one months interest  and suspend  interest  for 
three months to give Mr K time to make alternative arrangements for repaying his existing  
balance. 
Mr K brought the complaint to our service.  The investigator concluded, in summary, that 
Mr K wasnt  eligible for an interest free period on his existing balance,  so she didnt think  she 
could fairly  say Bank of Scotland should give him one. And whilst she accepted Mr K had 
most likely been misled, she thought Bank  of Scotlands offer of compensation and the 
space (the interest free period) to consider his options was a fair and reasonable resolution  
to the complaint. 
Mr K didnt agree, saying  he wouldnt have switched accounts if he hadnt been misled.  As 
an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has described what he was told in branch about the new credit  card account. I find his 
testimony consistent and credible. And Bank  of Scotland doesnt dispute  what hes said. So 
Im satisfied - on balance - Mr K was given incorrect information in the way he has 
described. That is, that he was told by switching  to the new account he would  benefit  from a 
0% interest rate on his existing credit  card balance for 20 months and that this wasnt  
correct. Im also satisfied, from what Mr K has said and from his actions following being 
charged interest on his existing balance, that he wouldnt  have switched if hed been given 
accurate information.  
So overall, Im satisfied a false statement of fact was made and that this false statement 
induced Mr K into switching accounts. This means I think there was a misrepresentation. But 
Ref: DRN67084362it wouldnt be fair for me to require Bank of Scotland to put Mr K in the position he would be 
in if the misrepresentation had been true. Instead, I need to decide how to put him back  in 
the position he wouldve been in had the misrepresentation not been made. 
Im satisfied if not for the misrepresentation  Mr K would have maintained his old account.  
Had this been  the case, he would still have been paying interest on his balance. The interest 
rates are slightly higher on the new account  (19.95% per year, rather  than 19.20%  per year). 
But Bank of Scotland has refunded/waived interest for February 2019 through to July 2019. 
This has saved Mr K roughly £50 in interest  on the balance transferred over from his old 
account. This wouldnt have been  the case if the switch hadnt occurred.  I can also see Mr K 
has used the promotional interest  rate of 0% on purchases, meaning  roughly £2,500  of 
spending is interest free until October  2020.  Taking all of this into account Im satisfied 
switching accounts  hasnt caused  Mr K to lose out financially.  
The new account  doesnt appear to function  materially differently to the old one. The interest 
rates, as Ive said, are slightly higher. But Mr K is now benefiting  from a promotional interest 
rate on his purchases. I dont  think requiring Bank of Scotland to switch  Mr Ks account  back  
to what was is appropriate here, bearing in mind  I dont  think  Mr K is worse off and that doing 
so is likely to cause  inconvenience to both parties. I would also remind  Mr K he can move his 
business to another credit  card provider if he wants to.
This matter has caused Mr K some distress and inconvenience, but in my view this was 
relatively minor. Bank of Scotland  has offered him £75 compensation in recognition  of this 
and £12 to cover the cost of his calls.  And - as a direct result  of this matter  - has 
refunded/waived interest. I think this is fair and reasonable compensation in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6708436