K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds  settlement of his 
pet insurance claim and about its service. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
Mr M is represented  by his mother in his complaint  to us.
background
Mr M took out pet insurance on-line  for his dog in April 2018. Red Sands  was the insurer. 
The policy gave time limited cover for an injury or illness for 365 days after the condition  was 
first noted  by Mr M or his vet, subject  to the policy terms  and limits.
In April 2019 Mr Ms dog was seen by the vet for had a tumour  on her hind leg and a mass 
on her shoulder. Mr M submitted a claim form through his vet to Red Sands for treatment 
costs of £171.56. Mr M said his dog had further  treatment resulting in the removal of the 
tumour on her leg. He said the treatment cost him a total of £525.
Red Sands  asked Mr Ms vet for more information to clarify  the claim for £171.56  it had 
received. The two lumps  initially had a different diagnosis;  a lipoma (fatty lump) on the dogs 
shoulder and basal neoplasia (skin tumour) on the right hind leg. Mr Ms vet told Red Sands 
they wished to claim everything under  the leg tumour as the fine needle aspirate charges 
were the same for one or two lumps being  assessed.
Initially Red Sands  declined the claim. It said the dogs  vet records  showed  the symptoms  of 
the condition claimed for first appeared in July 2017, before the policy  started. The policy  
didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions.
However, after Mr Ms vet sent evidence  that the tumour on the hind leg wasnt  related to the 
scab on the leg seen  in July 2017 Red Sands  agreed to pay the claim of £171.56 less the 
deductions under the policy terms. It paid Mr M £53.89.
Red Sands  also initially  added a specific exclusion to the policy with effect from the start of 
the policy. But after further evidence from Mr Ms vet Red Sands amended  the specific 
exclusion. The vets evidence ultimately  showed  the tumour on the leg and mass  on the 
shoulder were related  to the sebaceous  glands. The exclusion was now for all claims with 
respect to growths and tumours and resulting conditions  with effect from 22 April 2020  and 
all claims with respect to the sebaceous glands  and resulting conditions  with effect from 
22 April 2020.
Mr M complained to us. He wants Red Sands  to pay the full vets cost of £525  and refund  
the last two years policy premiums to him. He also wants compensation from Red Sands for 
his stress as he had to borrow money from family to pay the vet.
Our investigator said Red Sands should pay the claim of £525  in full and £100  compensation 
for Mr Ms distress and inconvenience.
Red Sands  disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans decision. It said:
it had paid the only claim it had received, for £171.56, making the deductions the 
policy terms allowed
Ref: DRN64404142if Mr M made  a further claim for treatment for the condition  it would  waive the 90 
days time limit for making claims set out in the policy
it hadnt delayed  in paying  the claim.  The claim was received on 14 May 2019,  
reassessed on 21 May and paid on 24 May 2019.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to partly uphold this complaint. I said:
Red Sands  has paid the only claim  Mr M submitted through his vets which  was for £171.56 
for treatment up to 3 May 2019.  It made  various deductions: the policy  excess of £99, to the 
limit for laboratory fees and a 20% co-payment deduction as Mr Ms dog is over the age of 8. 
Those deductions are in line with the policy terms and reasonable.
Mr M complains that Red Sands didnt pay the further costs  for treatment of the condition. 
But the important  point is that Red Sands has never received a claim for those further costs.
The policy is clear that Mr M needs to submit a claim form for costs he wants  Red Sands to 
pay. It has acted reasonably in asking for a claim form.
The policy is also clear that Mr M needs  to provide  Red Sands with his pets  medical  history  
and other  information  Red Sands requires. Its common for an insurer  to ask for additional 
information in assessing a claim. Red Sands acted reasonably in asking for Mr Ms dogs vet 
records and asking the vet for clarification about  potentially two different  conditions.
During our investigation we asked Mr Ms vet for evidence  that the dog had further  
treatment. We sent Red Sands the updated  vet history for Mr Ms dog which  showed  she 
had further treatment on the tumour  on her leg. We also sent Red Sands documents which  
Mr M thought showed hed paid the additional  costs.
Ive looked at the vet evidence of the additional  treatment the dog received for the tumour  on 
her leg. In principle I cant see any reason why Red Sands wouldnt cover the additional 
treatment, subject to the remaining policy terms and the policy limits.  Red Sands can tell me 
in its response to my provisional decision if it has any concerns about covering the additional 
treatment in principle.
But the documents Mr M sent arent invoices detailing what the vet charged for that 
treatment. They are receipts and list treatment  for various issues  treated for both of Mr Ms 
pets. I havent seen  evidence  which clearly  shows how much  Mr M paid for the treatment of 
his dogs leg tumour after 3 May 2019.
When Mr M submits  a claim  for the additional  costs  Red Sands will reasonably want 
evidence of the costs Mr M was charged by the vet to be able to assess the claim. His vet 
should be able to provide  the costs  information.
I think a fair and reasonable outcome is that once Red Sands has received a claim form for 
the additional costs of treatment for Mr Ms dogs tumour on her hind leg, with evidence of 
the costs he was charged, it must pay the claim subject to the remaining policy  terms and 
limits.
Its fair for me to point  out to Mr M that the policy limit for a condition is £500, so less than he 
says hes paid.
Ref: DRN64404143Red Sands  has reasonably said it wouldnt  use the policy term that a claim must be made in 
90 days from treatment to decline  the claim.
Im not going  to say Red Sands should  pay interest  on the amount as Mr M hasnt claimed  
for the costs. So Red Sands didnt delay  payment.  It paid the only claim it received.
I dont think Red Sands needs to pay Mr M compensation. It dealt with the claim it received  
within two weeks. Thats a reasonable timescale, particularly when it needed more
information to assess the claim.
Red Sands  added then amended a specific exclusion  on the policy. I dont need to decide if 
that exclusion was fairly  added  because  as the exclusion takes affect from April 2020 it 
wouldnt affect the additional  costs  Mr M wants to claim for. Also, Mr M has now cancelled  
the policy.
Theres no basis for me to say Red Sands must  refund  Mr M the policy  premiums.  His dog 
has been covered  by the policy, subject to the policy terms and limits.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr Ms representative, on his behalf,  said Red Sands  hadnt  paid anything to Mr M for his 
dogs treatment and hed sent us the only receipts  he had. She also said Mr M had been 
caused a lot of stress.
We checked and explained to Mr Ms representative  that Red Sands told us it had paid 
£53.89 direct to the vet to settle the first claim. Mr Ms representative  said the vet told her it 
hadnt been paid. So we asked Red Sands if it had any evidence  to support it had paid the 
vet.
Red Sands  sent us a letter dated 24 May 2019, emailed to Mr M, which said it had paid 
£53.89 directly to the vet by BACS (which  is an electronic system to make payments directly  
from one bank account to another).  Red Sands confirmed it paid on 24 May 2019. It also 
referred to Mr Ms email  to it of the same  date in which  he said he rejected the £53.89  as 
hed paid £499 to the vet for his dogs treatment. 
Red Sands  said it had no comments on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The responses from the parties havent  changed  my mind. I partly  uphold this complaint.
On the evidence I have Im satisfied that Red Sands directly  paid £53.89  to Mr Ms vet to 
settle the first claim of £171.56  for treatment up to 3 May 2019. Ive explained above  why the 
deductions it made were  reasonable.
Mr M paid for other treatment for the condition after that date which  he wants Red Sands to 
pay. But, as Ive explained in my provisional decision,  Mr M needs to complete a claim form 
with supporting information  about  the additional costs he paid for the treatment. The 
Ref: DRN64404144documents he sent us dont clearly show how much  Mr M paid for the treatment of his dogs  
leg tumour after 3 May 2019.
My provisional decision said I couldnt see any reason why Red Sands wouldnt cover the 
additional treatment,  subject to the remaining policy terms and the policy  limits, once it 
received the claim  form and information. I said Red Sands should tell me in its response to 
my provisional decision if it had any concerns about covering the additional  treatment in 
principle and it hasnt  raised any objections.
So its now for Mr M to submit a claim form to Red Sands with supporting information that he 
should be able to get from the vet.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings, once Red Sands 
has received a claim form for the additional  costs of treatment for Mr Ms dogs tumour  on 
her hind leg, with evidence of the costs he was charged,  it must pay the claim subject to the 
remaining policy terms and limits.
Im sorry  Mr M has found this matter  stressful.  But Red Sands has acted reasonably  in 
asking Mr M to make a claim for the further costs he wants  it to pay. For the reasons Ive 
given above, theres  no basis for me to say Red Sands must pay him compensation or 
refund the policy premiums.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require that once Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited  has received a claim 
form for the additional  costs of treatment for Mr Ms dogs tumour  on her hind leg, with 
evidence of the costs he was charged,  it must  pay the claim subject  to the
remaining policy terms and limits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6440414