K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Cumberland  Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI)  policy.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 15 April 2019,  which is attached  and forms part of
this decision, setting out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party  responded
with any evidence or comments for me to consider.  So based  on my previous findings, and
in the absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the
policy was mis-sold  so Cumberland Building  Society doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But as stated in my provisional decision,  Cumberland Building Society has to pay back to 
Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Cumberland Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a regular premium mortgage PPI policy taken out in August 2003.  Mr
and Mrs L took out the policy when they were arranging a mortgage with CBS. The PPI
policy was taken out in their joint names and the benefit was split equally.
Ref: DRN60980402Our adjudicator did not uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case
I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold and Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs L say they were coerced into taking out the PPI. But they havent told us what
was said to make them feel this way, and I havent seen anything to support this allegation.
And pressure, or coercion, is subjective - what one person thinks is pressure, another  may
not. And without any evidence to persuade me that it was more  likely than not that Mr and
Mrs L were pressured into taking out the PPI, I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold the
complaint on this point.
The mortgage  application form included  a separate section  on the PPI cover  available. In
this section they were asked  if they wanted PPI cover and had the option to choose yes or
no. Mr and Mrs L selected  yes and signed  that section of the form.  They then completed and signed 
a separate PPI application  form. The mortgage  offer letter did not include any
reference to the PPI and so I think it should have been clear that the PPI was not a condition
for approval of the mortgage.
So based on everything Ive seen I dont have enough evidence that CBS pressured  Mr and
Mrs L to buy the PPI policy. Instead I think that CBS made Mr and Mrs L aware that the PPI
was optional and that they chose to take it.
CBS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to make sure the policy  was suitable
for them  and based  on what I have seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think that it
was. Mr and Mrs L were both working, Mr L was self-employed and Mrs L was the main
earner at that time. As he was self-employed  Mr L was not entitled to any employer benefits
if he could not work. Mrs L was entitled to some sick pay from her employer.  But they didnt
have any other savings  to fall back on if either of them was not working. The PPI could have
provided valuable additional cover if either or both of them was unable to work or was
unemployed. And even though Mr L was self-employed, the policy they bought included fair
and reasonable terms for the self-employed to make an unemployment claim.
On the PPI application  form Mr L disclosed that he had had an operation on his hand nine
months earlier. The policy  does exclude claims  relating to prior conditions  but this restriction
only applies  for the first 12 months of the policy. And the policy was free for the first 6
months, so once Mr and Mrs L started paying for the PPI, Mr L wouldve  only been
prevented from making a claim  for the next 6 months. Having read the application form I
think it is likely that this was discussed with Mr L at the time he applied and he chose to go
ahead with it. In any event, I dont think that this limitation  was sufficiently restrictive  to make
the policy  unsuitable.
Before they finally accepted the mortgage  offer and the PPI Mr and Mrs L were provided with
a mortgage quote which included the level of cover required and the monthly  premium  for
this cover. So I think that they were aware  of the cost of the cover before they bought the
policy and there is no suggestion that the policy was too expensive or unaffordable.
In the PPI application  form Mr and Mrs L confirmed that they had received a copy of the PPI
Ref: DRN60980403leaflet and had read and understood  the exclusions.  But I think it is possible that all of the
key exclusions and limitations were not highlighted as clearly as they should have been. But
with the exception  of the conditions  for unemployment  claims by self-employed  persons and
the limitation on claims for pre-existing medical conditions  discussed  above,  I dont think Mr
and Mrs L were affected by the conditions  of the policy. I think it is unlikely that they would
have made  a different  decision if they had been provided  with better information.
So overall I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs L. Which means  CBS doesnt
have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to them. But CBS did pay back some of the cost of
the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because:
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because CBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.
To put that right, CBS did pay back the amount of commission and profit  share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I understand Mr and Mrs L tried to send this money back to CBS. If they were successful in
doing this and would now like CBS to send the money back  into their account, they should
contact CBS directly.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above  I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 29 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6098040