K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave her loans that werent  affordable.
background
Between 2016 and 2018 Ms W borrowed six loans  from Uncle Buck,  as follows:
Loan No Amount Instalment Date lent Date repaid
1 £100 £46 13.9.16 21.9.16
2 £200 £94 9.12.16 12.12.16
3 £200 £103 24.7.17 9.8.17
4 £100 £43 20.9.17 10.10.17
5 £600 £286 7.12.17 1.1.18
6 £200 £67 23.2.18 Outstanding
Each of the loans  was repayable by three monthly  instalments except  loan six which was for 
a six month  term. All were repaid earlier than required under the loan agreements,  with the 
exception of loan six which  is on hold pending  the outcome of this complaint.
Ms W complains that Uncle Buck didnt carry out sufficient  checks into the affordability  of its 
loans to her. If it had, she says it wouldve seen that she was stuck in a cycle  of payday 
borrowing.
Uncle Buck  is content that it did undertake appropriate affordability checks before each loan 
and was satisfied  that its lending  was affordable  to Ms W.
Our adjudicator felt that Uncle Bucks  checks for loans one to four were proportionate.  
However, he thought  that they didnt  go far enough  in respect of loans five and six. But, 
having reviewed  Ms Ws financial circumstances at that time, he considered that Uncle  Buck 
would still most likely have given the loans  even if itd done better checks.
Ms W doesnt agree. She reiterates that, at the time she borrowed from Uncle  Buck, she had 
a significant number of other loans from multiple lenders and, as a consequence,  wasnt  able 
to repay  these loans  sustainably  alongside her other commitments.
Because Ms W doesnt  agree  the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to see whether 
Ms W could  afford to pay back the loans before it lent to her. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Ms W was borrowing and her lending  history,  but 
there was no set list of checks that Uncle Buck had to do.
Uncle Buck  has told us that before  each  loan it asked Ms W for details  of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check  on each occasion.
Ref: DRN65647752For each loan Ms W declared her net monthly income to be £1,700  and her normal  monthly 
expenditure to be £850 (comprising mortgage, credit cards, transport, utilities and food). This 
left her with disposable  income of £850 each month  with which to meet Uncle  Bucks loan 
repayments.
loans one and two
Ms Ws first loan was for £100. The monthly repayments of £46 were modest compared to 
her declared  disposable income of £850  and wouldve appeared affordable.
The same is true of loan two. There was a gap of almost three months  after loan one was 
repaid and whilst the monthly repayments were  higher at £94 these  too wouldve appeared 
affordable against  the level of disposable  income Ms W had declared.
Although I havent  been provided  with the results of Uncle Bucks credit checks for these 
loans I have reviewed  those for the later loans  and havent seen anything in them that I think 
wouldve been likely to cause any concern  to it at this time.  I think that, at this early stage in 
its relationship with Ms W, it was reasonable for Uncle  Buck to rely upon the information 
shed given to it.
It follows that I dont think Uncle Buck was wrong to provide these loans.
loans three  and four
There was a gap of over six months  between Ms W repaying loan two (which had been 
repaid early,  after only three days) and her applying to Uncle  Buck for her third loan. I think 
this is sufficient time for it to assume  that her financial situation may have changed. 
Ms W reported her income  and expenditure to be as before, leaving monthly disposable  
income of £850.  The required monthly  repayments for loans three and four were £104  and 
£43 respectively which wouldve appeared affordable. I think  that, given the break in 
borrowing here, it was reasonable still for Uncle Buck  to rely upon the information Ms W 
gave to it. And I think that, in the context  of Ms Ws declared financial circumstances, the 
checks carried out by Uncle  Buck remained  proportionate.
I havent seen  anything in the results of the credit checks that I think  should reasonably have 
prompted Uncle Buck to check anything further.  There were no delinquent debts reported 
and, whilst there was one default  registered  this was over 12 months old. Its evident  that 
Ms W was a regular borrower but the number  of active credit accounts,  and the total of loan 
balances outstanding, had remained fairly static across the period of her loan applications to 
Uncle Buck.  
Loans five and six
Each of the preceding loans had been  repaid early, generally within one month  of being 
given. There was a gap of around  two months  between loan four being repaid and Ms W 
applying for loan five.
This was, though,  the third occasion  that Ms W had asked for a loan in the past 4/5 months. 
And it was for a significantly higher  amount,  with increased repayments  of £286 per month.  
Whilst this would still appear affordable to Uncle Buck against the income  and expenditure 
Ref: DRN65647753Ms W had declared, I think that given  the frequency and higher repayment commitments 
shouldve led to it undertaking  some  more checks.
I think the same is valid for loan six where, notwithstanding it was for a lower amount, it was 
repayable over an extended term of six months.
I think that, at the time of loans  five and six, it remained reasonable for Uncle Buck  to rely 
upon the information that Ms W had given  to it in relation to her income  and normal  
expenditure (including regular credit commitments). But, in these circumstances, I think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask Ms W for, in addition  to her regular  
financial commitments, details of any other short term loan commitments she may have.  I 
cant see that it did so and, as such,  I dont think its checks  went  far enough.
Having concluded  that Uncle Bucks checks were  not proportionate for loans five and six, I 
must now assess whether  or not it might have come to any different lending decision had it 
done better checks. So, Ive looked at the results of the credit  checks that Uncle  Buck 
obtained for each  of loans five and six. 
Ms W had told Uncle Buck on each occasion  that she had to pay £400 each month  for 
mortgage and credit commitments. Alongside her mortgage and two other regular term 
loans, I can see that there were  also commitments  to two other short  term lenders  in relation 
to loans that were  taken  out shortly before loan five was granted.  These were:
Lender A - three loans  of £138  each (total £414) payable over six months  via monthly  
repayments of £75 in total;
Lender B - four loans  of £200  each  (total £800)  repayable  at £16 each per week (total 
£64 per week). This equates to repayments totalling  around £256  per month.
I think that had Uncle  Buck  specifically asked Ms W for details  of any short term loan 
commitments shed  have most  likely given it these  figures. The total amount she was 
committed to repaying for these short term loans was around £331 per month.  Given that 
Ms Ws self-declared income and expenditure indicated she had monthly disposable income  
of £850 I think  that, even  if Uncle  Buck  had carried out the better  checks  that I consider to be 
proportionate, it would  probably  still have  concluded that its monthly  loan repayments  of 
£286 were affordable to her.
By the time of loan six the short term loan from Lender A had been repaid and there was a 
reduced sum of around £400  that remained owing to Lender  B. As such, from what I can 
see, it appears that Ms Ws monthly commitments for short term loans had reduced to £256. 
Loan six had monthly  repayments of only £67 and so I think that this too wouldve  appeared 
affordable to Uncle Buck even if itd carried out the better checks that I consider to be 
proportionate.
I can see that Ms W has been a regular  borrower of short term loans and Im sorry that shes 
experienced financial difficulties over the years. But, whilst its clear  that her true financial 
situation was worse than that which shed consistently declared  to Uncle  Buck, I dont think  
that theres any good reason why Uncle Buck  shouldve been aware of this in all of the 
circumstances. Im sorry itll be a disappointment  to Ms W but I dont think  that Uncle Buck  
was wrong to provide these loans. 
I note that, in recognition of an administrative error that occurred when loan one was repaid 
early, Uncle Buck has offered to offset a small amount  of £16.08  from the outstanding 
principal balance. Its confirmed that this offer remains available  to Ms W.
Ref: DRN65647754my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6564775