K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limiteds decision to reject a 
theft claim he made under his car insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the time it took to 
reach its decision.
background
Mr B reported that his car had been  stolen to his insurer,  Markerstudy.  He said hed parked it 
on a side road before  going out drinking for the evening. A couple of hours after Mr B said he 
came home in a taxi, the police  came  to his address and told him his car had been found 
crashed and damaged. 
Markerstudy investigated Mr Bs claim. It decided to reject  it as it said Mr B gave 
Markerstudy a different  account to the one he gave to the police. The police reported that 
Mr B said hed left the car keys in the car and left it unlocked the last time he saw it. Mr B 
told Markerstudy he lost his keys at some point in the evening. 
Markerstudy concluded that the intention was to derive a more  favourable  financial 
settlement than the one Mr B may have otherwise been entitled. Markerstudy said it 
considered this a criminal offence under Sections 2 and 3 (and potentially  6 and 7) of the 
Fraud Act 2006.
It relied on the following section of Mr Bs policy: 
"If you or anyone acting on your behalf knowingly commit a fraudulent act or
submit a fraudulent  document  or make a fraudulent statement or exaggerate
any claim made under the policy, we will not pay the claim and cover under this
and all other insurances currently in force with us with which  you are
connected will cease immediately. You will not be entitled to any refund of
premium under any policy".
Markerstudy said it would look to recover the costs  of the claim from Mr B. 
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint.  He said he was drunk  when the police came to his 
house  so he cant remember what he told them. For this reason, Mr B doesnt feel its fair 
for Markerstudy to rely on the police report.  
The investigator thought Markerstudy had acted reasonably.  
Mr B didnt agree. He doesnt believe hes done anything  wrong.  
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
When Mr B made a claim,  Markerstudy  as the insurer was entitled  to carry out an 
investigation to check that the claim was one it would cover  under the terms of the policy. 
Ref: DRN68914282The police report does  say that Mr B was drunk.  I note that our investigator said there was 
no reference to Mr B being intoxicated in the report,  but this isnt correct. However, I dont 
think this makes a difference to the outcome. 
The police reported that Mr Bs car was found crashed into a fence with the engine running.  
They reported that Mr Bs bag was found in the car and his mobile phone  was in the central 
cubby hole. The report went  on to say:
(Mr B) stated that he parked his car at the (car park name) at around  2000HRS and 
went to (pub name). Later he moved his car to (street name) due to concerns of the 
car park closing. He was not able to provide a rough time of this. He confirmed that 
he left his bag with all his belongings including his bag and two phones as well as the 
key fob to the vehicle and left it unlocked with the key fob inside the car. He got an 
Uber taxi with his friend home at around  OOOOHRS and stated that his car was still 
parked where  he left it.
He stated  that he was not driving the car when it crashed and given no persons 
permission to drive his vehicle and wishes to substantiate an allegation that his 
vehicle was stolen  by a person unknown.
On 30 May 2018 Mr B told Markerstudy  that he last saw his car at around 8pm that evening 
when he parked it on an unknown side street before meeting friends for a drink.  Mr B said he 
locked the car with the key fob. During the evening Mr B said he lost his car key and mobile 
phone. He made his way home by taxi. 
Markerstudy instructed  an investigator  to interview  Mr B and his friend.  Mr B and his friend 
said Mr B was using his mobile  phone during the night. Mr B said he didnt realise  his phone 
and keys were missing until the police arrived at his home at 2am.
I appreciate that Mr B said he was drunk when the police took the information  from him, 
which Markerstudy has relied on. But from the report, the account Mr B gave was specific 
and detailed as to where hed parked his car, and what items were left in the car and that it 
was left unlocked.  And it was timely  as the police took this information from Mr B within  a 
couple of hours of Mr Bs car being found and him returning home.  So I think it was 
reasonable for Markerstudy to place more weight on the evidence provided way of the police 
report. 
I think Markerstudy was entitled to consider  all of the information and evidence available to 
it. Given the discrepancies, I think its decision to reject the claim was reached in a 
reasonable way and line with the policy. 
I dont think Markerstudy caused  undue delay.  Investigating claims  particularly where  an 
insurer has concerns  which require follow up and information from third parties  will 
inevitably take longer to deal with than a straight  forward claim.
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Markerstudy has acted 
reasonably. So I think its entitled to look to recover the costs  of the claim from Mr B which  
comes to £737.40.
Ref: DRN68914283my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6891428