K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that BMW Financial  Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly  charged  
her for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement. 
background
In 2014, Miss F acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement  from BMWFS. The 
total repayable  under  the agreement was £19,589.29. Miss F was required  to make 47 
monthly payments  of £234.07 and there was a final optional payment of £7,588  if she wished 
to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Miss F had the right to terminate  the agreement  at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing  so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the 
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this 
was £9,794.65.
In early 2018 Miss F exercised her right to terminate the agreement  early.
As Miss F had paid at least £9,794.65 she wasnt required to pay BMWFS  for the voluntary 
termination. But, after Miss F had handed  the car back, BMWFS later charged her a further 
£1,289.90 as she had exceeded  the mileage allowance on the agreement. BMWFS  also 
charged Miss F for some damage to the car outside of fair wear and tear  Miss F settled 
this amount but not the charge  for the excess mileage. 
The agreement set out that Miss F had an annual  mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 32,000. It said that if she exceeded this allowance BMWFS  could 
charge her 4.8 pence for every mile that she exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the 
event she terminated  the agreement early,  the mileage allowance  would be pro-rated for the 
time the car was on hire. 
Miss F didnt think this charge was fair. She said that the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
explained that she didnt have to pay the excess mileage charge being requested. In 
addition, she said that BMWFS had taken her monthly payment in February incorrectly, as 
shed requested the voluntary termination  before that date. She was also upset with 
information being recorded by BMWFS  on her credit file stating she had missed or late 
payments. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the CCA. He also found  that the terms of the agreement  were clear 
around the possibility of an excess  mileage  charge being payable  on early  termination.
In summary,  he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination;
In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable  
under the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of the agreement. This means that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination;
Ref: DRN63722892S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are to 
be affected by the termination;
The hire purchase agreement sets out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination . The term in Miss Fs agreement was clear that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination;
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement;
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Miss Fs accrued liability under S100 therefore included  
paying an additional amount of £1,289.90;
The credit  agreement  sets out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost;
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded;
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS  to charge  the additional amount. 
With regard to Miss Fs comments  about  her February 2018 monthly payment being taken 
by BMWFS, our investigator said he thought this was fair. He said that the evidence 
provided showed Miss F had requested a settlement amount in January  2018 and requested  
voluntary termination  in early February 2018. As her payment was due on the 1st February,  
before the voluntary termination paperwork had been received by BMWFS, he said the 
payment was due and it was reasonable of BMWFS to take it. 
Miss F disagreed with our investigator. She thought the payments  had been  requested  
incorrectly. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In paying a deposit and her monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Miss F use of the car for the duration  of the agreement. She also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£7,588. While Miss F was entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain  conditions,  
such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each 
year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement  set out what would 
happen should Miss F not meet those requirements. 
Miss F exercised her right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some  instances, 
voluntary termination  allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay 
anything more. But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to 
the agreement, whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition  of the car and whether 
any excess mileage or other  charges are due. 
Ref: DRN63722893In this case, Miss F accepts that she was required to pay at least  £9,794.65  to voluntary 
terminate the agreement.  But she disputes  the excess mileage charge of £1,289.90 that has 
been added  on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The Termination: Your rights section 
of Miss Fs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability  that is due on termination and 
in her case, that was £9,794.65. Various sections of the agreement Miss F had with BMWFS  
also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability.
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply  the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered  into. What  I have  to decide is, 
has the agreement  been constructed in a way as to allow the charging  for excess  mileage 
without contravening  what  is set out in the CCA  regarding voluntary termination?  In Miss Fs 
case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means  is that Miss F is liable to 
pay any charges which  have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that 
these charges are in addition to the other  liability for early termination. 
The first page of Miss Fs hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage 
Charges for Depreciation.  This section sets out the mileage allowance  and what  charges  will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of time and that your  obligation  to 
pay any Excess Mileage Charges will accrue immediately prior to termination . Im satisfied 
Miss Fs agreement is worded clearly in setting  out when excess mileage charges accrue. 
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: Your  rights. This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Miss F has paid at least half the total amount payable  under the 
agreement, she will not have to pay more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with the 
rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding the 
mileage might apply. 
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
either unclear or misleading concerning  the charges for excess  mileage. I think  it explains 
that the excess mileage  charge can be applied in addition to other  charges for voluntary  
termination. I dont  therefore consider that the way this specific  agreement  has been 
constructed has prejudiced Miss F.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Miss F is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and this this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA. 
Ive considered what Miss F has said in relation to her rental payment taken by BMWFS in 
February 2018. But I havent seen  anything to suggest she requested to voluntary terminate 
her agreement prior to the payment being  taken.  I have seen evidence to show  she asked 
BMWFS for a settlement  figure in January 2018,  but this is different to asking to voluntary  
terminate the agreement.  The voluntary termination paperwork wasnt  received by BMWFS 
Ref: DRN63722894until after Februarys  rental payment was due, so I cant say theyve acted unreasonably by 
taking that payment from Miss F. 
Miss F has also said shes  unhappy  that BMWFS  have reported adverse information on her 
credit file. However, as Ive decided BMWFS are entitled to ask for the excess mileage 
charge and Februarys rental payment, Miss F hasnt paid all the sums which  fell due when 
she terminated the agreement early. So, I cant reasonably say that what  BMWFS  are 
reporting on her credit  file is either inaccurate, unfair or unreasonable.
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS have acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss F.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2021.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6372289