K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mr D complains about  the service  received from National Westminster Bank 
Plc (Nat West) in relation to the release of estate  funds.
The estate  of Mr D is represented by Ms J, a solicitor.
background
Ms J says Mr D died domiciled overseas, so she was instructed by the executor to have the 
letters of executorship resealed in the UK to enable estate funds held by Nat West to be 
collected. She says she lodged  the resealed letters  of executorship with Nat West on 11 
January 2019,  together with the power  of attorney provided by the executor overseas  to 
enable her to obtain  the reseal and administer the estate. But she says Nat West refused to 
accept the documents submitted.
Ms J also says Nat West couldnt  offer a suitable  explanation as to why these documents  
werent acceptable to its legal  department. She says it had accepted similar documents  
lodged by her firm in other cases.  And she says her client shouldnt have to bear the 
additional costs  incurred as a result  of this situation.      
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Nat West had caused  a 
delay in the closure of the account and release of the funds. So, the investigator  thought  it 
should pay 8% simple interest on the balance in the account from the time the funds should 
have been released on 11 January 2019 to 30 July 2019 when they were released. And it 
should pay £900 to cover the solicitors charges for the extra  work  that had needed to be 
carried out, plus 8% simple interest from when these charges had been incurred.   
Nat West disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. It said it wrote  to the estates 
solicitors on 31 January 2019  to advise that it only needed the account closure instruction 
signed by the executor named on the probate  document or a new grant  of probate 
appointing Ms J as executor. And it said alternatively a Section 25 Trustee Act 1925 power 
of attorney  would have  been acceptable.
Nat West also said its clear  from the challenges  the estates solicitors raised that they 
werent prepared  to do either of these things and instead decided to pursue a legal 
challenge against the decision. It said it accepts there were delays in its internal legal 
submission, but it said the submission itself was unnecessary and the estates solicitors 
provided in July 2019 what had been requested in January. And it said, based on this 
explanation, it was satisfied the estates solicitors had caused  the delay.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
I recently issued my provisional  findings on this complaint. I said from what Ive seen, it 
appears the reference in the power of attorney to the need to obtain letters of administration  
caused confusion  between the estate  of Mr Ds solicitors and Nat West. 
I also said as I understand it, letters of administration  wouldnt be required where probate  
had been granted. But if the power  of attorney required the estate of Mr Ds UK solicitors to 
obtain letters  of administration  and these had not been obtained, I said I can understand why 
Nat West might have had concerns about releasing funds until letters of administration were 
Ref: DRN66254442obtained. And I said its suggestion of getting  the executor to sign the release form seems to 
have been a practical suggestion to speed  up the release of funds. 
I further said I was minded to conclude the delay that followed until the funds were released  
at the end of July 2019 was largely due to this confusion, rather  than being the result of any 
deliberate obstruction on the part of Nat West.
I also noted the estate of Mr Ds solicitors  initially  chose to challenge Nat Wests decision, 
rather than taking steps to have its form of release signed by the executor overseas. And I 
said I could see this led to a protracted referral  to Nat Wests legal department.  Although I 
could also see the impasse was eventually  ended and the funds released when the form 
was signed by the executor and returned to Nat West.
So, in short, I was minded to conclude  this situation  arose from unfortunate confusion 
between the parties,  rather  than being  the result of any wrongdoing on the part of Nat West. 
And, in these circumstances I was also minded  to conclude  it wouldnt be fair for me to 
require Nat West to pay Mr Ds estate  any compensation or interest for the delay in the 
release of estate  funds.  
So, for these reasons,  I was minded to conclude I couldnt fairly and reasonably uphold     
the estate of Mr Ds complaint.   
This was different  from the investigators  opinion. So, I invited  both parties to comment and 
provide any additional evidence for me to consider. 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Ms J said the power of attorney gave her the 
authority either to obtain a reseal  of the grant  of probate or letters of administration. And she 
said, given the probate  rules, there was no reason for her to obtain  letters  of administration, 
as she had the same authority under the reseal  and the power of attorney.
Ms J also said the postal system in the overseas country where  Mr D had died domiciled is 
subject to many strikes and it can take two to three  months to receive post, hence her 
reluctance to involve the client.  However,  she said she did email Nat Wests form to the 
client when experiencing difficulties with Nat West, but had to wait for the original signed 
copy to be returned,  before  being able to lodge  it with Nat West.
In addition, Ms J said if Nat Wests legal team understood the probate  laws of England  and 
Wales, this problem  wouldnt  have arisen.  And she said she believes it is a lack of training in 
Nat Wests bereavement  department that needs to be addressed.  So, Ms J said she 
believes her client should be recompensed  for the delays experienced, in the circumstances.
Ive carefully considered  Ms Js comments. But it appears to me that, whilst the executor 
overseas had the right to realise estate assets  in the UK once the grant  of probate  had been 
resealed here, that doesnt necessarily mean the UK solicitors  did. I see the power of 
attorney signed  by the executor overseas was clear that the UK solicitor was being 
Ref: DRN66254443appointed for the following purposes: 1. To apply for the reseal; 2. To obtain letters of 
administration; 3. To administer the estate; 4. To do all acts the executor could legally have 
done. 
I think its significant, however, that the power of attorney  doesnt  specify applying  for the 
reseal and obtaining letters of administration  as alternative courses of action. In these 
circumstances, in the absence of letters of administration, I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for Nat West to ask for a release form signed by the executor,  particularly bearing in mind 
the amount of money it was being  asked to release. And I note that it released the funds 
promptly, once the relevant  form was received. 
So, it remains my view that this situation  arose from unfortunate confusion between  the 
parties, rather than being the result of any wrongdoing  on the part of Nat West. And, in these 
circumstances, I dont  think  it would  be fair for me to require  Nat West to pay Mr Ds estate 
any compensation or interest for the delay  in the release  of estate funds.  
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold the estate of Mr Ds complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold the estate of Mr Ds complaint against National Westminster  Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
The estate of Mr D complains about the service  received from National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat 
West) in relation to the release of estate  funds.
The estate of Mr D is represented by Ms J, a solicitor.
Ref: DRN66254444background
Ms J says Mr D died domiciled overseas,  so she was instructed by the executor to have the letters  of 
executorship resealed in the UK to enable  estate funds held by Nat West to be collected. She says 
she lodged the resealed letters of executorship with Nat West on 11 January  2019,  together with the 
power of attorney provided by the executor  overseas to enable her to obtain  the reseal  and administer 
the estate. But she says Nat West refused to accept  the documents submitted.
Ms J also says Nat West couldnt offer a suitable explanation as to why these documents werent 
acceptable to its legal department.  She says it had accepted  similar documents lodged by her firm in 
other cases. And she says her client shouldnt have to bear the additional costs incurred as a result of 
this situation.      
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Nat West  had caused a delay  in 
the closure of the account  and release  of the funds. So, the investigator thought  it should pay 8% 
simple interest  on the balance in the account from the time the funds  shouldve  been released on 11 
January 2019 to 30 July 2019 when they were released. And it should  pay £900 to cover the 
solicitors charges for the extra work  that had needed to be carried  out, plus 8% simple interest from 
when these charges had been  incurred.   
Nat West disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It said it wrote  to the estates solicitors on 31 
January 2019 to advise that it only needed the account closure instruction signed by the executor 
named on the probate document or a new grant of probate appointing  Ms J as executor.  And it said 
alternatively a Section  25 Trustee  Act 1925 power  of attorney would have been  acceptable.
Nat West also said its clear from the challenges the estates solicitors raised that they werent 
prepared to do either  of these things and instead  decided to pursue a legal challenge against the 
decision. It said it accepts  there  were  delays in its internal  legal submission,  but it said the submission 
itself was unnecessary  and the estates solicitors provided in July 2019 what  had been requested  in 
January. And it said,  based  on this explanation, it was satisfied the estates  solicitors had caused the 
delay
So, the matter has been referred to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded not to uphold the estate of Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
I see on 11 January 2019 the estate  of Mr Ds solicitors sent Nat West the grant of probate  that had 
been resealed  by a court  in the UK, together with the power of attorney  authorising Ms J to obtain the 
reseal and administer  Mr Ds estate in the UK. I also see the power of attorney required Ms J to obtain 
letters of administration. And I see Nat West wrote to Ms J on 31 January  2019 saying  it wasnt able 
to accept the power of attorney and that it just needed the executor  of Mr Ds estate overseas  to sign 
its form to enable the funds to be released.
From what Ive seen, it appears the reference in the power of attorney to the need to obtain  letters of 
administration caused  confusion between the estate of Mr Ds solicitors and Nat West. 
As I understand it, letters of administration wouldnt be required where probate  had been granted. But 
if the power of attorney required the estate of Mr Ds UK solicitors to obtain letters of administration 
and these had not been obtained, I can understand why Nat West might have had concerns about  
releasing funds until letters of administration  were obtained. Its suggestion of getting  the executor  to 
sign the release form seems  to have been a practical suggestion to speed up the release of funds. 
Ref: DRN66254445Im minded to conclude  the delay that followed  until the funds  were released at the end of July 2019 
was largely due to this confusion, rather than being the result of any deliberate  obstruction  on the part 
of Nat West.
I also note the estate of Mr Ds solicitors initially chose  to challenge Nat Wests decision,  rather  than 
taking steps to have its form of release signed  by the executor overseas. And I see this led to a 
protracted referral to Nat Wests legal department. Although I also see the impasse  was eventually 
ended and the funds  released when  the form was signed by the executor and returned to Nat West.
So, in short, Im minded to conclude this situation arose from unfortunate confusion  between  the 
parties, rather than being the result of any wrongdoing on the part of Nat West. And, in these 
circumstances Im also minded to conclude it wouldnt be fair for me to require  Nat West to pay Mr Ds 
estate any compensation or interest for the delay in the release of estate funds. 
So, for these  reasons, Im minded to conclude I cant fairly and reasonably  uphold the estate of Mr Ds 
complaint.   
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above but subject to both parties  responses to this provisional decision Im 
currently minded  not to uphold the estate  of Mr Ds complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6625444