K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that a car he financed through an agreement with Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS),  trading as Audi Financial Services,  has not proven to be 
suitably durable.
background
Mr K took receipt of a new car in November 2014. He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS and in April 2015  he settled the finance and became the 
legal owner of the vehicle. 
But in August 2018 he was disappointed when the car developed a rattle  and investigations 
revealed it needed a new timing  chain, tensioner  and cam shaft. He paid the repair bill of 
£3,419.52 but complained to VWFS  as he said the car hadnt proved suitably durable. 
VWFS said that as Mr K had settled his agreement there  was now no agreement in place so 
he wasnt an eligible complainant and they couldnt consider the issue.
But Mr K disagreed and he brought his complaint  to this service. Our adjudicator said that as 
Mr Ks complaint was about durability it referred to the quality of the car at the point of supply 
and we could  therefore consider it. She thought  a reasonable person would expect a timing  
chain to last for well over 100,000 miles and that this chain had failed far too early. So she 
didnt think the vehicle had proven to be suitably durable and she thought a fair resolution 
was for VWFS to refund the cost of the repair and to pay Mr K £100 in recognition  of the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
But VWFS disagreed. They said they were only responsible for supplying  a car that was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale and they couldnt understand how a fault which  
occurred four years after purchase, long after the finance agreement  was settled, could be 
proven to be inherent at that point.  So they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys DISP rules set out the procedures  and requirements  that 
businesses must follow  when handling complaints from consumers. 
DISP 2.7.6 says:
Ref: DRN65203142To be an eligible  complainant a person  must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent: 
1.the complainant  is (or was) a customer,  payment service user or electronic money  
holder of the respondent;
As Mr K was a customer of VWFS he is an eligible complainant and his complaint is eligible  
too as hes complaining that the car wasnt suitably durable and that relates, as the 
adjudicator has explained,  to whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was 
supplied to him. Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement.  The relevant law 
says that the car should have been  of satisfactory  quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then 
VWFS is responsible and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
The relevant  legislation  also tells us that, when we consider  satisfactory quality, we should  
consider whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably durable. And here I dont think  that 
can be the case. The timing chain on Mr Ks car broke  when the car had completed only 
26,109 miles and I think a reasonable person would think that was far too soon.
Ive reviewed on line information about how long timing  chains  should  last and it would seem 
that it would  be very unusual for one to fail at such a low mileage. I think Mr K was entitled to 
assume his car would be capable of being  driven  a lot further than 26,000  miles before such 
a significant and expensive problem occurred and Id agree that this car hasnt proven 
suitably durable  and was therefore  not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I therefore think a reasonable resolution  would  be for VWFS to refund the costs of the repair. 
Mr K paid £2799.60  and a further £50 to check the rattle out that he first reported. Both sums 
were subject to VAT and the total bill to be refunded is therefore £3419.52.
Mr K has also been inconvenienced by this issue and I agree, in the circumstances, with the 
adjudicators suggestion  that VWFS should pay him £100 to compensate  him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to reimburse the cost of repairs to Mr Ks car of £3419.52 and to pay 
him £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6520314