K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited (previously called Legal and General) 
breached his home insurance contract  in the way they dealt with his claim,  following an 
escape of water, and refused to respond  to any communication.
For ease of reading, any reference to Fairmead  will include its agents.
background
In January 2017 Mr G claimed on his home insurance policy, following an escape of water.
Fairmead appointed an expert to handle the claim.  It also appointed a surveyor who said the
property needed  drying as the water had affected a number of rooms. Fairmead needed  to 
arrange for a contractor  to restore the electricity  and central  heating  before this could start. 
Fairmead arranged  to pay Mr G a disturbance allowance while this took place.
Mr G was unhappy with how long it had taken Fairmead to start the drying process. He said: 
a deadlock had been reached between him and Fairmead; Fairmead was in breach of 
contract as it had discontinued restoration  work; and it was ignoring all communication and 
requests to put things right. 
Fairmead accepted  it could have done  things more  quickly. However, it said while it could
have communicated  better it had found it difficult to get in touch with Mr G. It also said it
hadnt been able to carry out the repair work as Mr G had wanted to change  the materials
used as well as the layout of the bathroom. Fairmead  said it wouldnt pay for these changes
and offered Mr G £3,842.51 as a cash settlement. It said this amount would pay for repairs
to put him back in the position hed have been in before the escape  of water. It also paid
him £500 compensation for the delays.
In April 2017 Fairmeads contractor issued a drying  certificate however in January 2018 the
contractor said the chimney breast was still wet. In March 2018 Mr G had to call out a
plumber for further  work.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. In summary and in later discussions with our investigator 
to resolve things, he asked for:
Reimbursement for the electricity costs hed incurred  while  the property was being
dried.
The cost of the plumber to put right the work  carried out by the emergency team.
An advance payment of £22,112 to repair the damage (excluding carpets and floor
            coverings) caused by the escape of water  and further damage caused  by Fairmeads
            unnecessary delays.
Increased compensation and disturbance allowance, as £500 wasnt enough to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience and he wasnt able to live in the 
property. 
After Id looked into the complaint I asked  the investigator to contact  Mr G and Fairmead to 
let them  know I would  find it very difficult to decide how much Fairmead needed to pay to 
repair the damage caused by the escape of water and subsequent delays in drying. To help 
me decide I asked  both Fairmead and Mr G to identify surveyors to inspect  Mr Gs property 
and prepare a schedule of works. 
Ref: DRN67661022Fairmead said it was only able to identify one contractor (that Ill refer to as S) that it would
use. Mr G suggested  using a local surveyor to draw  up a schedule of works which could  then 
be costed by his own builder and Fairmeads contractor. Mr G said he would also like the 
surveyor to consider any damage  caused by Fairmeads contractors.
I also asked Mr G to provide further information  to show  hed been  living in his property
before the escape of water. And I asked Fairmead  to confirm it had paid for the plumber and
the drying out costs. Fairmead  said it would  pay these costs.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 March 2020. In that decision I said:
Mr Gs made  a number of detailed points about  whats happened.  I dont  intend  to address
all of them  although  Id like to assure  him that Ive considered them all. Instead  Im going  to
focus on what I see as the central issues of this complaint.  I dont intend  this as a
discourtesy to Mr G, instead  it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Fairmead has agreed to pay for: the electricity for the dehumidifiers  for both periods of
drying; the plumber  to repair  the second leak;  and an increased value for the contents. So,
Im not going  to comment on those points any further.
Repairs
Mr Gs policy  covers him for damage caused  due to an escape of water.  The terms and
conditions say Fairmead have the option  to replace,  repair  or pay a cash settlement. I
understand Mr G would like me to tell Fairmead  to use his preferred contractor  but Im not
going to. If Mr G wants to use his own contractor the policy terms allow  Fairmead to offer a
cash settlement. However,  it needs  to ensure it pays Mr G enough to rectify the damage that
was caused by the escape of water.
Fairmead and Mr G disagree about  the work that needs carrying  out to repair the damage
caused by the escape  of water and subsequent  delays. Fairmead provided a schedule of
works that shows the repair  costs to be £3,841.52. Whereas Mr Gs builder has provided a
quote for £19,911.60.
Due to the time thats passed its very difficult to know what  work now needs doing.
Fairmeads schedule  of work doesnt take account of any damage caused by the property
not being properly dried initially, so Im not persuaded its now accurate. Mr Gs report  is
from a builder and while  it quotes for work  it has no explanation  of why that work is
necessary as a result  of the escape  of water.
Given Mr Gs experience  on this claim to date, I think it would be appropriate to appoint an
independent surveyor  with a remit to carry out sufficient investigations to determine the
extent of the damage caused by the escape of water; the subsequent  delay in drying the
property and any damage caused by Fairmeads contractors.
Fairmead has put forward S to carry out this work.  In the absence  of any suitable alternative
proposed by Mr G I think Fairmead and Mr G jointly should appoint S as the independent
surveyor. This should be paid for by Fairmead.  Fairmead must  also pay for any
investigations the surveyor considers necessary, and the costs of the contractors required.
Once the extent  of the damage  is established,  the surveyor can produce a report
recommending the next steps in the claim and include a total costing at current market rates.
Fairmead should then reconsider Mr Gs claim in light of this report.
Ref: DRN67661023Disturbance allowance
Disturbance allowance isnt something  thats defined in Mr Gs policy.  Its generally
considered to be an award  for any additional financial costs  a policyholder incurs as a result
of not being able to live in their home or any additional costs while living  in their home.
Fairmead said Mr G had a tenant  in his property at the time of the incident.  And I can see
from the claim notes that at the beginning of the claim Mr G asked Fairmead to speak to his
tenant. Ive asked Mr G to provide evidence to show he was living  in his home. But he hasnt
provided any further information to persuade me he lived in the property. So, I dont intend  to
tell Fairmead to pay any further disturbance  allowance.
Delays
Mr G logged his claim on 23 January 2017.  The surveyor attended on 25 January and said
the property was very damp, and a business  should  be instructed as soon as possible to 
start the drying. Fairmead appointed a contractor  to do this and also appointed  another  
contractor to do the repairs.
An electrician attended to restore the heating  and said a plumber needed to restore  the
central heating.  Mr G also let Fairmead  know there  was no electricity going to the boiler. I
can see Fairmead tried to arrange  for a plumber and electrician to attend  at the same time
but had some problems  arranging  this. Ultimately it arranged for a plumber who could also
deal with electrics to attend. Fairmead received the drying report  from its contractor on
31 January. That report recommended  the removal of wallpaper and carpets to aid the
drying process. I can see from the notes that Mr G raised some concerns on the same day.
Fairmead logged  a complaint on 9 February as things still hadnt  been resolved and paid
Mr G a disturbance allowance of £280.  Theres some dispute  about whether Fairmead knew
earlier that there was a problem with the central  heating and boiler  as well as the electrics,
but I dont think  I need  to make a finding  on this. Thats because  Fairmead  has already
compensated Mr G for delays during this time.
Fairmeads contractor installed drying  equipment in February and issued a drying certificate
on 19 April. I can see however that on 3 May theres a note that says the dining room  ceiling
is saturated and needs replacing.
It seems  that Mr G raised  some concerns  about how the repairs were going to be carried  out
around this time. Fairmead contacted him in early July to say repairs would put him back  in
the position hed been in before the escape  of water and if he wanted to make  changes to
the house at the same  time it would offer him a cash settlement instead. It asked Mr G to
confirm how he wanted to go ahead. From Fairmeads notes Mr G didnt get in touch until
the end of August to ask for a cash settlement. So, I dont think the delay  here was all
Fairmeads fault. However, Fairmead then responded to Mr Gs request with its final
response letter on 25 September  offering  him a cash settlement of £3,842.51 and £500
compensation for delays.
I can see that in January  2018 Mr G remained unhappy as he didnt think the walls were dry
and the ceiling hadnt been checked.  In February  Fairmeads contractor went out to the
property and agreed it wasnt dry so requested further stripping out work. I understand Mr G
wasnt happy with a new contractor Fairmead  had appointed to carry out some work but
ultimately more drying was needed. Ive seen  an email from the contractor in June 2018
where it said the chimney breast was the only area it was drying at that time. It said it
requested the stripping of the plaster in January and had been  chasing it since. A further
Ref: DRN67661024drying certificate was issued on 5 July 2018.
Fairmead said the length of time that had passed  made it unlikely the chimney breast  was
still wet due to the initial  escape of water. However, I think its unlikely the contractor would
have carried out further drying  if it wasnt needed. So, I think  its most likely the house wasnt
properly dry when the first certificate was issued.
That means that although Fairmead said the property  was dry in May 2017, it doesnt seem
to have been properly dried until July 2018.  And whatever the reason for any delays  during
that time due to other  reasons, the repairs wouldnt have been able to go ahead  if the
property wasnt properly  dried. Thats a period of 14 months where  I think Fairmead is
responsible for the property not being  dried properly. And I think  its fair and reasonable
Fairmead compensates him for that.
I dont think I need  to consider any delays after that point. I say that because even if there
were delays, the claim is unlikely to have progressed  as Mr G and Fairmead couldnt agree
on a settlement amount. Having taken everything into account, I agree with our investigator
that an additional £250 is a fair and reasonable amount for Fairmead to pay to compensate
Mr G for the delays caused  by drying the property.
I said I intended to require Fairmead  to:
Appoint S with a remit  to carry out sufficient investigations to determine  the extent  of
            the damage  caused by the escape of water; the subsequent delay in drying the
            property and any damage caused by Fairmeads contractors.
Pay for any other investigations  the surveyor considers necessary, and the costs of
           the contractors required.  Once the extent of the damage is established, the surveyor
           can produce a report recommending the next steps in the claim and include total
           costings at current  market rates.
Reconsider Mr Gs claim in light of this report.
Pay Mr G an additional £250  to compensate for his distress  and inconvenience.
Pay for the electricity  used to dry out the property,  if it hasnt  already  done so.
Pay for the emergency  plumbers costs, if it hasnt already done so.
Mr G provided  a detailed  response to my provisional  decision.  He clarified that his complaint 
was about L&Gs refusal to answer  phone calls, emails and letters  in order  to escape  its 
obligations and to frustrate the completion of its contract by failing to provide  competent
contractors; practices which continue to this day. I dont intend  to detail every point that    
Mr Gs made  but I think the main  points of his response are:
By not commenting  further on the parts Fairmead has agreed to pay Im ignoring the 
problems these  things  have  caused.
The plumber wasnt called out to fix a second  leak, it was to prevent a further leak.
Mr G didnt say he wanted  me to tell Fairmead  to use his preferred contractor.
Fairmead was in breach of contract  so has surrendered its rights to rely on the 
contract.
Fairmeads schedule  of works was incomplete  which means the settlement offer was 
too low and Mr Gs own builder had factored in a contingency  sum which meant the 
costing was more  accurate.
Mr Gs builders costing all related to damage caused by the escape of water.
Ref: DRN67661025Mr G put forward  three surveyors who would undertake the work. He doesnt  think S 
is suitable as its not a surveyor.
Fairmead should have continued  to pay the disturbance allowance it had agreed at 
the start.
Mr G didnt think it was appropriate to provide any further information to support that 
he was living in the property and it should  be clear that he was from the information 
we have already.
Mr Gs life has been impacted throughout the time hes been  unable to live in his 
property.
The description of the delay is out of sequence  and its untrue that Fairmead 
contacted him at the end of July 2017 to offer him a cash  settlement.
An additional £250 doesnt fairly reflect the level of distress  and inconvenience  Mr G 
experienced.
Interest should  be payable on the refund for the electricity costs and plumber.
My decision would allow Fairmead to continue to not meet  its contractual obligations.
Mr G would like me to enable him to cancel his policy with without any charges and a 
pro rata refund. 
In response to Mr Gs comments I asked him, via our investigator whether he had submitted 
the name of a surveyor, or whether he was referring  to the email hed sent which  suggested 
an alternate way of resolving things. Mr G said he hadnt formally  submitted  any but had 
made an alternative suggestion. Following the investigators email Mr G also provided the 
name of a surveyor. I let Mr G know that as he hadnt put forward  the name of a surveyor  
when Id originally  asked, I remained satisfied it was fair to use S. However,  I specified  to 
both Mr G and Fairmead  that S should  use or appoint a surveyor  who is registered with the 
Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.  
Mr G remained  unhappy with this suggestion but said that if I made this finding in my final 
decision he would like to see the list of surveyors that S would be choosing  from. 
Before reaching my final decision I also let Mr G and Fairmead know that I thought  Fairmead 
should pay interest on the refund  for the electricity costs and plumber, due to the time Mr G 
had been without the money. For the electricity, I said interest should be calculated from the 
date the drying  was completed to the date Fairmead  made  payment. I said as Fairmead had 
sent Mr G a cheque  for the plumber it should calculate the interest from the date Mr G paid 
to the date it issued  the cheque. 
For the plumbers  costs Mr G thought this should be extended to the date Fairmead makes 
payment, because when issuing  the cheque, it had specified that this was in full and final 
settlement of Mr Gs insurance  claim, which meant hed been unable to cash the cheque. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the detailed  background Mr G has provided and thank him for this. The 
background set out above is intended as a summary and as such I dont intend to repeat 
every detail that Mr G has provided  but have included the information I feel is most relevant 
Ref: DRN67661026to my decision. Im sorry Mr G feels it is a discourtesy that I havent addressed  each point 
but its for me to decide what I think is the crux of this complaint. 
Id like to reassure Mr G that although I dont intend to comment  any further on the things 
Fairmead has agreed to pay for, Ive taken  account of them when reaching my overall award  
for distress and inconvenience.  Ive taken on board Mr Gs correction that there  wasnt  a 
second leak, but as Fairmead  has agreed  to pay for the plumber I dont think  I need  to make 
any further comment on that. 
Mr G said to our investigator It is my understanding that the FOS can insist on the insurer  
using specified  contractors. This would appear  to be an excellent alternative if you do not 
wish to go down the obvious route of reporting  L&G to the FCAIf so, then it is only 
necessary to nominate [Mr Gs nominated builder ] to do the rest of the work (including 
addressing the damage by L&Gs contractors) and everything should  fall into place. Id 
understood this to mean Mr G would like us to instruct Fairmead to use his builder to carry 
out the work.  However, if Mr G didnt mean that, then I accept that. 
I understand Mr G thinks Fairmead has breached the contract  between  them.  However, Im 
required to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that it isnt fair and reasonable for Fairmead to rely on the terms 
within the policy in this particular case. 
I still dont think Mr Gs builders report provides an explanation that persuades  me of why all 
the areas listed for repair are due to the escape of water. I understand Mr G doesnt think 
Fairmeads schedule  is complete  and I remain of the opinion that it doesnt take account of 
any further damage caused  by the property  not being dried  properly. So, I still think the fair 
and reasonable outcome to this part of the complaint  is for Fairmead  to appoint an 
independent surveyor  with a remit to carry out sufficient investigations to determine the 
extent of the damage caused by the escape of water; the subsequent  delay in drying the 
property and any damage caused by Fairmeads contractors. The surveyor  will then draw  up 
a costed a schedule of works which Fairmead should use to reconsider the claim. 
In an email dated 20 November 2019 Mr G suggested using  a local surveyor to draw  up an 
un-costed schedule  of works. But didnt specifically name  three surveyors. Our investigator 
let Mr G know that I would  consider any local surveyor  he wanted  to put forward when 
reaching my final decision. Mr G didnt put forward a surveyor  at that time. As Mr G didnt  
suggest the name of a surveyor until July 2020 and this claim has been outstanding for 
some time, I remain satisfied S is an appropriate  company  to arrange the work, on the basis 
that they use or appoint a surveyor who is a member of the Royal  Institution  of Chartered 
Surveyors. I say this because its the only party that was put forward at the time I asked both 
Mr G and Fairmead, and they will be using a surveyor who is a member of the Royal 
Institution of Chartered Surveyors.  Im not going  to require them  to provide Mr G with a list of 
possible surveyors, as they may not be choosing from a list. 
Ive taken Mr Gs point  that Fairmead paid disturbance allowance at the start of the claim.  
But as that isnt set out as something  hes entitled  to within  the policy I havent seen enough 
to persuade me it needed to keep  paying  it. The policy does  provide cover  for alternative 
accommodation but As Mr G hasnt  provided  any further information to persuade me he was 
living in the house Im not going  to depart from my provisional findings in this area. 
While Ive summarised the delays, it remains that the drying took much  longer than it should 
have done. But even if the drying had been completed sooner its unlikely the work would 
Ref: DRN67661027have been completed earlier because of the dispute  over the cost of repairs.  Ive considered 
Mr Gs points about the distress and inconvenience this has caused him but remain  satisfied 
that an additional £250 compensation  is a fair and reasonable amount for Fairmead to pay 
him, given  that I havent seen enough  to persuade me he was living  in the property at the 
time.
A note provided by Fairmead dated  4 July 2017  has a copy of an email it sent to Mr G which  
says if he wanted  to make any changes to the bathroom it would offer him a cash  settlement. 
The email  asked Mr G to get in touch about how he wants to proceed with the bathroom  and 
kitchen. So, I do think Fairmead offered Mr G a cash settlement in July 2017.
I accept Mr Gs point that Fairmead should have paid for the plumber and drying  costs  
sooner. Fairmead  has provided screenshots from its system to show  that it issued a cheque 
for the plumber in March 2019, however the cheque wasnt cashed. I understand Mr G didnt 
want to cash this because  it said it was in full and final settlement of his claim. 
I havent seen  a copy of the cheque but given  the amount for this wasnt in dispute,  Im only 
going to require Fairmead to pay Mr G interest  at 8% simple per year on the cost of the 
plumber from the date Mr G paid for the plumber until March  2019. As it should also have 
paid for the drying costs sooner Fairmead  should pay interest at the same  rate for the cost of 
the electricity from the date the drying was completed until the date it sent Mr G payment. 
If Mr G accepts my decision  Fairmead will need to do whats  set out below.  If Mr G remains  
unhappy with the outcome once Fairmead  has reconsidered the claim Mr G will be able to 
raise that as a separate complaint if he wishes. Im not going to require  Fairmead to let Mr G 
cancel his current policy without any cancellation  fees as that would need  to be dealt with 
separately as it didnt form the basis of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN67661028my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I require Fairmead  Insurance 
Limited to:
Appoint S with a remit  to carry out sufficient investigations to determine  the extent  of 
the damage caused by the escape  of water; the subsequent delay in drying  the 
property and any damage caused by Fairmeads agents. Fairmead must ensure S
use or appoint a surveyor who is a member  of the Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors to do this. 
Pay for any other investigations  the surveyor considers necessary, and the costs of 
the contractors required. Once  the extent  of the damage is established,  the surveyor 
can produce a report recommending the next steps in the claim and include total 
costings at current market rates.
Reconsider Mr Gs claim in light of this report.
Pay Mr G an additional £250  to compensate for his distress  and inconvenience.
Pay for the electricity  used to dry out the property,  if it hasnt  already  done so. Plus 
8% simple interest  per year on any amount from the day the drying out completed to 
the date it sends Mr G payment1.
Reimburse Mr G the plumbers costs if it hasnt already  done  so, plus 8% simple 
interest per year from the date Mr G paid for the plumber to the date it issued the 
cheque in March  2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
1 If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr G a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6766102