K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC handled a claim under his buildings 
insurance policy.
background
Mr M has a buildings insurance policy with Zurich to cover a property which he owns  and 
rents out.
Some years  ago, Mr Ms property was damaged by water ingress.  The problem was 
apparently caused  by an issue  with a neighbouring property.
Mr M made an application to court against  the parties responsible for the neighbouring 
property. In July 2016,  the case was settled by agreement between  the parties before it 
reached a court hearing.
Mr M subsequently  made a claim to Zurich. He asked  them  to pay for loss of rental income  
for the property from the date of the settlement with his neighbours. He also claimed for the 
cost of renting  a commercial dehumidifier at the property. Hes also claiming  for Council  Tax 
paid at the property since that date, which he says would have been paid by tenants.
Zurich told Mr M they couldnt  make  a decision on his claim unless and until he provided 
information or evidence which showed  them what the settlement  with his neighbours was 
intended to cover. They explained they needed  to confirm any further loss that hadnt 
already been reimbursed  through  the pre-hearing settlement.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and made complaint to Zurich. When they maintained  their 
position, he complained to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Zurich had done nothing  wrong.  He thought  it was 
reasonable for them to expect Mr M to provide  evidence that his losses  hadnt been covered 
by the settlement agreement with the neighbours.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  He says that the terms 
of the agreement are confidential but that Zurich can obtain them through  the solicitors for 
the other side in the stayed court case. And he thinks its unreasonable for them  to refuse  to 
do so.
Because more  information came to light after our investigator gave his view on the case, I 
decided to issue a provisional decision before I make my final decision. This allowed both 
Zurich and Mr M to comment on my thinking and/or to provide further  information  before I 
make my final decision. 
I understand Mr M is considering making  a further complaint about Zurich  deciding not to 
insure his property in future.  Thats being dealt with as a new and separate issue, given that 
Zurich havent  had any chance  as yet to respond  to it. I wont  be dealing with that issue in 
this decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN65262872Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says there is a confidential agreement between himself  and the neighbours 
which supplements  the pre-court settlement agreement between them. He says 
because this is confidential he cant provide it to Zurich. But he says Zurich can 
obtain it by asking the solicitors in the case.
Mr M says that this confidential  supplementary  agreement makes it clear  what the 
court settlement  covers.  And he says it will demonstrate that he has not been 
reimbursed through  that settlement for loss of rent since July 2016,  or for the Council 
Tax hes had to pay since that date, or for the cost of renting the dehumidifier.
As I understand it, Mr M hasnt rented out the property since  the time of the original 
damage  which occurred several  years before 2016.
Weve been in touch with Zurich since Mr M asked for a final decision on his 
complaint. They agreed  to ask the solicitors  for a copy of the supplementary 
agreement between Mr M and their clients.
Zurich tell us theyve now been told by the solicitors that they wont provide 
information relating  to the case on the basis that its confidential.
That being  the case, Im not sure what else we can ask Zurich  to do. In my view, its 
not unreasonable or unfair for them to require Mr M to provide evidence of the losses  
hes asking them to cover.  And theyve tried to assist  by seeking that evidence 
themselves  without  success.
If we look at the evidence which is currently available, the pre-court  settlement itself 
and the particulars of claim that Mr M has recently provided, Im also satisfied its 
reasonable for Zurich to conclude that they cant decide the claim as a whole in 
Mr Ms favour as things stand. Ill explain why.
The settlement  agreement says that Mr M has agreed to accept certain  remedies in 
full and final settlement  of his claim. The other  side in the case  are essentially 
required to carry out certain repairs. And theyre required to pay Mr M £140,000 in 
respect of his claim for damages.
The agreement doesnt specify  what  those damages  are  except by reference  to Mr 
Ms claim. Which means  the particulars  of claim are crucial in determining  what the 
£140,000 payment is intended to cover.
Ill turn to the particulars of claim in a moment,  but before I finish  with the settlement
agreement, I should  also say that it contains a clause which says: 
This Agreement represents  the whole agreement between the parties. Each  
party accepts and confirms that in entering into this.Agreement it is not relying 
upon any statement  or representation made  by or on behalf of the other Party, 
whether or not in writing,  at any time prior to the execution of this Agreement  
which is not expressly set out herein.
Ref: DRN65262873This would seem to suggest that any supplementary or additional agreement between  
Mr M and the other parties either doesnt  exist at all or has no effect.  Ive no reason to 
suggest that Mr M is lying about the existence of a further agreement or 
understanding between the parties,  but I have to assume that even if it were to be 
made available to Zurich,  it wouldnt override  the explicit terms of the agreement 
itself.
Im grateful  to Mr M for recently providing us with a copy  of the particulars  of claim he 
presented as part of his application to the court. Its worth quoting two sections of that 
document in full.
Paragraph 22.3 says:
The claimant has lost rent at a rate of £2,850  per month from August 2011 until 
such time as he is able to reinstate and re-let  [the property].
And the following paragraph  (22.4) says:
The claimant has incurred liability for Council Tax which would have been paid by 
the Tenants.  This liability is £2,297.27 for the year ending 31 March 2014.
So, Im satisfied the agreement  by which the other parties paid Mr M £140,000 in 
respect of his claim for damages  - was intended  to cover loss of rent at the property 
until such time as it was reinstated and re-let.
It also appears to cover  the liability for Council Tax, but only up until the end of the 
year ending 31 March  2014.
I have to assume that the £140,000 payment for damages covers any costs Mr M 
incurred whilst the repairs were  being carried out  including the cost of the 
commercial dehumidifier.
So, Im minded at present to suggest  that Zurich should consider  and make  a 
decision on  Mr Ms claim  for Council Tax payments (at least those hes claiming  
which are after March  2014), in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy.
However, to be clear,  I dont think it was unreasonable for Zurich  not to do that until 
now because they werent previously  provided  with the document  setting out the 
particulars of claim.
And in the absence  of any further evidence,  I cant see how Mr M can expect Zurich 
to meet  his claim for loss of rent or for the costs  of the dehumidifier.  When  I look at 
the detail of the particulars of claim, both of those costs appear to be covered by the 
damages paid to Mr M by his neighbour according to the terms of the pre-court 
settlement between them.
On that basis, my provisional  decision was that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt  be upheld.
the responses to my provisional  decision 
Zurich havent  provided any further comment or information in response  to my provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN65262874Mr M responded to make several points,  which Ill summarise  below:
1.The court settlement  suggests Zurich, as an interested party, cant  be denied the 
information they require.
2.The parties agreed to carry out the works listed in the settlement by 31 October 
2016. Due to the death of one of the other parties, the works werent completed until 
1 June 2018.
3.There were  no prior side agreements before the settlement was agreed.
4.Mr M has provided Zurich with full details  of his losses,  in the form of invoices, 
estimates etc. for the work hes had carried out.
5.Mr Ms losses far exceed the £140,000  he was awarded in the settlement. Hes 
shown that he lost rent to the value of over £165,000 before the settlement. His 
internal building works have  cost close to £200,000. And hes lost out on Council Tax 
and on other costs associated with the repairs.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive taken into account  Mr Ms 
response to my provisional  decision.
I know Mr M will be disappointed, but I havent  changed my mind. I can understand Mr Ms 
frustration and anger about the amount the original water ingress has cost him and the fact 
this appears not to be reflected in the court settlement. 
However, its not for me to decide  whether Mr M has lost out through  this whole series  of 
events and/or by accepting the settlement. The question for me is whether Zurich have acted 
fairly and reasonably in the way theyve dealt with Mr Ms claim.
Im still satisfied Mr M hasnt demonstrated for Zurich that his losses werent fully addressed 
in the court  settlement. As I said in my provisional decision, on the face of it, the settlement 
appears to require the other parties  to pay Mr M £140,000 to cover  all of his losses.
Mr M has claimed throughout  this case that there  is another document   other than the court  
settlement and the particulars of claim  which sets out what the settlement was intended  to 
cover. It appears to me Zurich have done all that could  reasonably  be expected  to obtain 
such a document   if it exists. 
Ill address the points  made in Mr Ms response  to my provisional decision in the order  he 
raised them.
Zurich cant be denied  access  to the relevant documents
Mr M says the settlement says that Zurich  as an interested party   cant be denied access 
to the additional document. I cant see that the settlement says that or implies  it. 
Ref: DRN65262875It says (paragraph 4.1) that the terms of the settlement (not any additional document(s)) 
mustnt be disclosed to anyone other than professional legal advisors,  auditors  and 
accountants  except as required by law or by consent of the parties or to enforce the 
agreement itself. 
I dont think this places  an obligation on the solicitors  Zurich approached to divulge 
information to them. And even  if it did, I cant  hold Zurich responsible if the solicitors  failed to 
disclose information  if that was required.
date of completion of repair works 
Mr M says the parties agreed the repair works  set out in the settlement would be completed 
by October 2016, but they werent  actually finished  until June 2018.
The settlement  itself doesnt  in fact mention any completion dates. And theres no evidence 
these dates were part or that settlement  or indeed agreed anywhere else.
If the agreed works werent completed in good  time,  and Mr M suffered further losses  as a 
result, the agreement  makes it clear that he can ask the Court  to enforce or apply the terms 
of the settlement without needing to commence new proceedings.
no prior side agreements
In response to my arguments about  the settlement superseding any prior agreements or 
statements by the parties,  Mr M said there were none. Thats fine and I assume that means 
the additional document hes referred to throughout our investigation  which he says 
clarifies what the settlement covered  was written / exchanged after the settlement. 
I dont think that affects my provisional decision. The fact is we havent  seen that document 
or any evidence that it exists. And in any case,  I cant see how it would impact the actual 
terms of the settlement agreement, which  along with the particulars of claim  appears to 
set out what losses  the agreement  was intended  to cover.
proof of losses
Mr M says hes provided full documentary proof to Zurich of his losses.  I dont think  thats in 
dispute. What he hasnt been  able to do  and this is the key to this case   is demonstrate 
that the settlement agreement wasnt intended to cover all of those losses. 
On the face of it, thats exactly what the settlement was intended to do  and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest otherwise. 
actual extent of Mr Ms losses
Mr M says the settlement - £140,000 in addition to the repair works  didnt  in fact cover all 
the costs he incurred in lost rent and in repairing his property. He says hes actually out of 
pocket because he spent  close to £200,000 on repairs or refurbishments  and thats before 
taking into account  the lost rent.
Again, I can understand Mr Ms frustration, but I think he misses the point  here. Its not for 
Zurich to make up the difference if Mr M accepted  a pre-court settlement which  didnt in fact 
turn out to cover the losses he was claiming for  as set out in the particulars of claim. The 
Ref: DRN65262876fact is the settlement was based on the particulars of claim.  In the particulars of claim, Mr M 
was asking the Court to cover lost rent and repairs to the property.
summary
So, my view hasnt changed. I think Zurich should  now look at Mr Ms claim for repayment  of 
Council Tax after March 2014   because that was explicitly not covered  by the settlement. I 
should be clear, Im suggesting  Zurich now consider that part of the claim  in line with their 
usual processes and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
However, Im satisfied its not unfair  or unreasonable for Zurich to refuse to consider the rest 
of Mr Ms claim unless  and until he can provide proof that his losses  were not intended  to be 
covered by the pre-court settlement. 
It is possible Mr M will be able to do that at some point in future. Of course if that does  
happen Id expect Zurich to consider the claim in line with their usual processes and 
procedures.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019. 
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6526287