K820x#14complaint
Mr Zs complaint is that the trading platform provided by Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 
212) was inaccessible on 25 October 2018  for periods roughly between 10am and 12pm 
(GMT). He says positions were opened  and closed (creating losses)  during this event 
without his knowledge or consent.
background
Drawing from available evidence, from both parties, a chronology of events is as follows:
Mr Z says before or around  10am (GMT) he noticed that the platform was 
inaccessible and engaged in a web chat with Trading 212 in order  to enquire further. 
Thereafter, he was able to access his account  on the platform and he found that 
open long positions  he had in the German DAX index had been closed and that 
instead around £9,350  in cash was available in the account. He says he then made a 
withdrawal request for £4,000  and telephoned Trading 212 to query the closed  
positions, in response to which  it asked him if he wanted to re-open the positions. He 
says he then accessed his account  on the platform to withdraw the remainder and 
found that the closed positions had been restored but then closed  again  immediately 
due to a margin  breach  triggered  by his withdrawal. He says two open positions  
remained in the account  with a critical minimum margin of 28%  but he chose  to 
leave them as they were, despite knowing they could be  closed at any moment 
in order not to complicate the matter.  Mr Z claims for the losses in the long positions 
which he says were  restored and closed without his consent during a period in which  
his account was inaccessible.
Trading 212 has provided telephone recording/transcript evidence  which  it says 
clarifies that after closure of the long positions  and after Mr Zs partial withdrawal he 
telephoned its staff;  he was told that the matter of addressing the closed  positions  
would be looked into by its billing  department,  which would return to him with an 
outcome; in the interim  he was informed that his withdrawal had yet to be processed 
so he could cancel  it in order to support the margin  requirement for the account;  he 
declared awareness that the accounts margin level was at a critical point and that 
the positions will most probably be closed, but he declined the invitation to cancel the 
withdrawal and chose  to leave the account as it was.
Trading 212 has referred to account  activity information which it says shows  that Mr 
Z requested his withdrawal of £1,000 at 10:24(GMT)  and then requested his 
withdrawal of £3,000  at 10:25(GMT); that the long positions were all closed at 10:31  
(GMT) due to a margin breach that was a consequence of the withdrawals;  that at 
13:39(GMT) Mr Zs recorded telephone conversation with its staff took place; that by 
13:57(GMT) processing of both of his withdrawal requests was completed and the 
sums were sent to his bank account/card;  and that another long German  DAX 
position closed  at 14:13(GMT),  also due to a margin breach.
Trading 212 says it does not dispute that its platform had an issue during the relevant 
period(s), but it disputes liability  for the loss claimed  by Mr Z. It argues that liability  for 
system failures was expressly excluded in its terms for the account, which  Mr Z agreed to. It 
also says his long positions (upon which his claim is made) were closed because  of a margin 
breach that happened quickly/quicker  due to his voluntary withdrawal of funds  which  
reduced equity in his account. It says it made a goodwill offer to him of £1,000, which  he 
Ref: DRN68970152declined. That was to reflect the notion  that if he had cancelled  or returned the withdrawal, 
as he told Trading 212 he intended to do, he would have still made a loss on the positions 
(because the market  moved against  them)  but his loss would have been £1,000 less.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and, in the main,  said:
Mr Zs withdrawal affected the margin level in his account and made a margin breach 
more likely. This happened before the platform access problem he faced.
There is no evidence that Mr Z was trying to withdraw the balance  of the cash in his 
account and was prevented by the platform problem.  He could have telephoned 
Trading 212 or used  a web chat to raise  such a pursuit at the time but there  is no 
evidence that he did either. Evidence shows that he first raised  the idea of 
withdrawing the balance after access to the platform was restored.
In the circumstances, she does not consider Trading 212 should have to do any more 
than the goodwill offer it made  to Mr Z.
Mr Z disagreed with this outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint. If Trading 212s goodwill offer remains available  to Mr Z, it would be within  his 
discretion to reconsider it.
The platform  related  problem during the relevant period on 25 October 2018 is not in 
dispute. However, and quite  importantly, the agreed  terms  for Mr Zs account had the effect 
of excluding Trading  212s liability for such a system  failure (and losses  arising from such a 
failure). On this basis, and in the absence  of evidence that Trading 212 has applied this 
exclusion unreasonably in the circumstances  of the case, I do not consider that there is 
ground to hold it responsible for Mr Zs claim.
For the following  reasons,  I do not consider that the exclusion has been unreasonably  
applied in the circumstances of Mr Zs case:
Management of the margin level in Mr Zs account was his responsibility. It would 
have been foreseeable to him that his withdrawals would  have  a negative impact  on 
that level  that is, would have the effect  of reducing his accounts margin  level.  He 
made the withdrawals  before the long positions  were closed, so this correlation 
appears to exist.
If, as Mr Z asserts, his intention was to withdraw  his funds his evidence  does  not 
persuade me as to why he did not do that completely when he had the opportunity to 
withdraw the total of £4,000. In addition, and as noted by the investigator, there is a 
lack of evidence  showing effort to withdraw the balance thereafter. Furthermore, 
there is seemingly conflicting evidence from Trading 212s submission that Mr Z 
informed it that he intended to return the withdrawal  as opposed to withdrawing  
more  which is why it made its goodwill offer to him. Overall  and on balance,  Mr Zs 
intentions at the time and in this respect do not appear  to be clear  and, importantly,  
Ref: DRN68970153there is a lack of evidence  to support his claim that he sought to make a further  
withdrawal but was prevented from doing so by the platform problem.
Mr Zs view on his loss is mainly  based  on hindsight. He admits that he is a long term 
trader and there  is no evidence that he planned to close  any of the relevant positions 
prior to learning about the platform  problem.  The implication  is that in the absence  of 
the platform problem  the positions would probably have  remained as they were  and 
remained exposed to the markets movement. He says they went missing without 
explanation and were then restored,  only to be closed immediately. I have not seen 
evidence that he instructed  Trading 212 not to restore them. In his submission to this 
service he said Trading 212 initially offered  to restore  them  and Trading 212 has 
shared a transcript of what appears to be a later conversation in which  it offered to 
look into the positions and to return to him with an outcome. Neither of these 
suggests that he wanted to forego the positions and to retain the cash  balance  that 
appeared in his account. I have not seen evidence that he gave this instruction, so 
any restoration of the positions that happened was a possibility or probability he 
would have been aware of.
The market moved against Mr Zs positions  and that created his paper loss, the 
margin breach then crystalized that loss. As I said above, the effect of reducing his 
accounts margin level (due to his withdrawals)  would have been  foreseeable  to him 
when he made his withdrawals  as would have been the increased prospect of such  
an effect leading  to a margin breach.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6897015