K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mrs K says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs K and Capital  One a provisional  decision on 10 April 2019 to explain why I was 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out below:
In order to be eligible  for the policy, a customer had to be working  at the time of the sale. 
But Mrs K has told us she wasnt  working  at the time.
Capital One has sent us a copy of the credit card application form, which  includes a section 
on your employment. And the section has been completed to show that Mrs K was 
employed as a bus operator.
But Mrs K has said that the application  form was completing using her husbands details, 
and that he was employed  as a bus operator  but she wasnt  working. Mrs K has been 
consistent throughout her complaint that she wasnt working at the time. And shes  told us 
she doesnt have  a driving license,  which would mean she couldnt  have  been  employed as 
a bus operator.
Based on the evidence  I have available, I think its likely that Mrs K wasnt working  at the 
time of the sale. And so she wasnt eligible for the PPI policy and it wasnt  of any use to her.
I understand that the information  Capital One was given  on the application form says that 
Mrs K was working, and that the box to select PPI on the application form was ticked. But I 
dont think the application form makes it clear that customers are only eligible for the PPI if 
they are working.  And if the form had made  this clear, even if Mrs K deliberately entered  
incorrect employment details, I dont think she would have selected  to take the PPI.
So I dont  think Mrs K wouldve bought the policy if shed  realised  she wasnt eligible.  And so 
I think shes lost out as a result of Capital One not making it clear that customers  had to be 
working to be eligible  for the PPI.
I set out what I intended to tell Capital One to do to put things right,  and I said Id consider 
anything else Mrs K and Capital One sent me.
Neither Mrs K nor Capital  One has sent in any further evidence  or arguments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs K nor Capital One sent in anything further, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. So I still think the complaint should be 
upheld, for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN62431972putting things right
Capital One should put Mrs K in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Capital One should find out how much Mrs K would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mrs K owes  and what she 
would have owed.
If Mrs K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Capital  One works out what Mrs K would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs K paid more than enough  to clear her balance, Capital One should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs K paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs K wouldve  owed Capital One something on her credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.Capital One should tell Mrs K what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One must give Mrs K a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Capital One (Europe) plc should put things right by doing what  Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6243197