K822xComplaint
Miss G has complained about loans granted to her by Everyday  Lending Limited (EDL). 
She says that the loans were unaffordable  for her and EDL was wrong to have agreed to 
them. 
Background
EDL agreed three loans  for Miss G: a loan of £3,000  in June 2014; a second  of £4,576 in 
January 2015  and a third of £10,000 in February 2016. The second loan was used to repay  
the first. Some of the information EDL provided is shown in the table below (all figures  
rounded to the nearest  pound). 
Loan Start date End date PrincipalMonthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1 30/06/2014 05/01/2015 £3,000 £330 13
2 05/01/2015 20/10/2015 £4,576 £377 24
3 23/02/2016 04/04/2018 £10,000 £491 36
Miss G says that at that time she was borrowing from other lenders, including short term 
high cost lenders,  and spent considerable sums  on gambling. She provided a credit  file 
report and bank statements to support  her account  of her financial difficulties. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and found that EDL should have gone  further in its 
affordability checks and, had it done so, would have seen that Miss G wasnt likely to be able 
to repay  her first loan sustainably. She recommended that EDL refund the interest  and 
charges Miss G paid on her first loan, along  with 8% simple  interest  per annum. 
EDL agreed to put things right as the adjudicator recommended but Miss G didnt agree with 
the recommendation. She said her circumstances  hadnt changed throughout the time she 
borrowed from EDL and felt her complaint about  her later loans should also be upheld.  
Miss G asked  for the complaint to come to an ombudsman  to review and resolve, and so the 
complaint came to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 September 2020 explaining  why I was thinking of 
coming to a different view of Miss Gs complaint and provisionally found that EDL was 
irresponsible when  it agreed to lend to her on all three occasions. Ive attached an extract 
from that provisional decision to the end of this document, and it forms part of this final 
decision. 
I gave both parties four weeks to respond with any comments or new information for me to 
consider. Miss G has accepted my provisional findings and conclusions  but EDL has not 
responded.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. 
Ref: DRN68492862As neither party has provided anything further  for me to consider,  I see no need to depart 
from my provisional conclusions (see extract).  It follows that I uphold  Miss Gs complaint in 
full and require  EDL to put things right for her as set out below.
What EDL should do to put things  right
Miss G shouldnt  repay more than the capital amounts she borrowed for her three loans 
agreed in 2014  to 2016. 
So to put things right for Miss G, EDL should:
a)refund all interest,  fees and charges  that she paid for her loans; and
b)add 8% simple interest to these  payments  from the date they were made to the date 
the complaint is settled; and
c)remove any adverse  information from Miss Gs credit file in relation  to loans 1 and 2 
and remove all information about loan 3 as any information  recorded about it was 
likely to be adverse.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must  give 
Miss G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
As Ive explained here and in my provisional  decision, Im upholding Miss Gs complaint 
about Everyday  Lending Limited  and require it to put things  right for her as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN68492863EXTRACT FROM MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Miss Gs complaint in full. I appreciate this will be very disappointing  
for EDL and I hope my explanation below makes it clear why I have come to this conclusion.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when EDL lent to Miss G. Its rules  and 
guidance obliged  EDL to lend responsibly.  As set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC),  
this meant that EDL needed  to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a 
borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the 
agreement. 
CONC 5.3.1G stated  that
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm should take 
into account more  than assessing  the customers ability  to repay  the credit.
2.The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required  should  include the firm 
taking reasonable  steps to assess  the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  meant being able to meet  repayments out of normal income 
while meeting other reasonable  commitments;   without having to borrow further to meet  these 
repayments; without having to realise security  or assets (CONC  5.3.1G - 6) or without incurring or 
increasing problem indebtedness (ILG1 4.3).
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such  an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that the level 
of detail  would depend  on the type of product,  the amount  of credit being considered,  the associated 
cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial situation,  amongst other factors. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the borrower.  In other words  the assessment  needs to be borrower-focussed. It is 
not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping its money, but of the risk to the borrower of 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences as a result of the 
decision to lend. 
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the assessment is to 
be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information  to use needed  to 
be enough to be able to reasonably  assess the sustainability of the arrangement for the borrower.  
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the borrower  
of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable  way. So, for example, Id expect  a lender to seek 
more assurance,  potentially by carrying  out more  detailed  checks
-the lower a persons income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
1 The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced  a document entitled Irresponsible Lending Guidance 
which the FCA referenced in its consumer  handbook. CONC  5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.
Ref: DRN68492864-the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
-the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
-the greater the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a person has been given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become,  or was becoming,  unsustainable).
Bearing all of this in mind,  in coming  to a decision  on Miss Gs case, I have considered  the following  
questions:
-did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Gs loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable way?
-if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
-did EDL make fair lending decisions?
Did EDL complete reasonable  and proportionate checks?
EDL says it gathered  information from Miss G about her income and rent. It calculated an amount for 
her general  living expenses and checked her credit  file. Ive summarised some of the information  EDL 
says it used in its affordability assessment in the table  below (with numbers rounded).  
Loan 1 Loan 2 Loan 3
Income £2,222 £2,222 £3,044
Rent £450 £450 £310
Creditor repayments £0 £613 £381
Calculated living expenses £778 £778 £1,300
Monthly cost of EDL loan £330 £377 £491
Calculated remaining income  £585 £494 £815
EDL says that its assessment showed that for all loans the monthly repayments would  be affordable 
for Miss G, leaving her with several hundred pounds a month to spare. The customer  notes  show EDL 
verified some of this information, for example it verified  Miss Gs income via a payslip and her 
employment status  with her current employer.  On the occasions it found existing  debt it seems  Miss G 
was borrowing to consolidate it. 
Our adjudicator found  that EDL needed to go further in its checks, given the amount  Miss G was 
borrowing and that she would need  to meet  her repayments  for at least a year. I think it would  have 
been reasonable and proportionate  for EDL to have looked into Miss Gs spending in more detail. It 
seems for each loan EDL looked at some  of Miss Gs bank  statements but I dont know to what  extent 
it used these  to explore  or verify her spending. 
However, I am not going to investigate where  further checks may have led EDL.  Ive reviewed  the 
bank statements it quoted in its customer notes and am currently of the view that EDL didnt make fair 
lending decisions when it agreed  to lend to Miss G based on the information  it already  had at the time.
Did EDL make  fair lending decisions?
Loan 1
Ref: DRN68492865EDLs customer  notes  state that it saw Miss Gs current bank account  statements from a particular 
high street bank (Bank A) covering several weeks in May and June of 2014.  EDL noted that it saw 
gambling on the bank statements along with balances of over £130,000.
Miss G has supplied  a copy of these bank statements, which show:
-gambling transactions of the order of tens of thousands of pounds on a weekly basis;
-frequent transfers in and out between several accounts and large cash withdrawals, 
sometimes daily;
-that her salary  was depleted within  a couple of days.
Miss G says her finances at the time were not in a good state and she opened  and closed  many bank 
accounts. She explained  that the high balance  was due to a large  deposit the previous month from 
gambling winnings.  Miss G said Despite  winning some money and clearing  debts in May 2014  I 
continued to gamble, waste  away  money, borrow more money and started  the cycle of debt all over 
again. 
Altogether, its clear that Miss Gs finances were chaotic and her spend  was unpredictable to the 
extent that it was unlikely that she would be able to sustainably meet  her repayments  for this loan 
over the lifetime of the agreement. And so I dont think EDL treated Miss G fairly when it agreed to 
lend to her. 
Loan 2
In January 2015, EDL agreed another loan for Miss G. I understand  that by that point  she was 
overdrawn by over £1,000 on her account with Bank A. The customer notes  say that the purpose of 
this loan was to consolidate  Miss Gs overdraft  and her first EDL loan. The lender saw statements for 
what it called Miss Gs main salary account for November  and December  2014 (now Bank B). It noted  
that she had borrowed from payday lenders and was gambling still like last timeto a lesser extent. 
Miss G has supplied  a copy of these bank statements. Over these  two months shed  borrowed and 
repaid eight short  term loans  and, while shed spent less through gambling-related transactions  shed 
still spent almost £3,000 in this way. She made transfers to another account and had several unpaid  
transaction fees. 
It seems to me that Miss Gs spending pattern hadnt substantially stabilised. So, as with her first loan, 
I think  EDL should have  seen from the information it had that Miss G wasnt likely to be able to meet  
her repayments for this loan in a sustainable  way. As it happens, Miss G incurred  several missed 
payment fees before repaying the loan in full in October 2015. She says this was using proceeds from 
the sale of a property. 
          
Loan 3
Miss G took out her third loan in February 2016, some  four months after repaying her second and for 
more than double  the amount. The customer notes  say that the purpose of this loan was to repay  a 
£3,500 loan from a high cost credit provider and to pay for a holiday. And that EDL saw several  weeks 
statements from two accounts Miss G held with another bank  (Bank C), which  it noted didnt show any 
gambling transactions. 
Ive reviewed these bank  statements and while it is true that there wasnt any identifiable evidence  of 
gambling, Miss G was still managing her money through several different accounts and, in addition to 
frequent transfers in and out, there were several large  bill payments with her name  as reference. 
The credit  file information gathered by EDL shows Miss G was still borrowing  from short  term lenders 
and had taken out several short term loans  the month before, at least  one of which  was unpaid. The 
high cost loan which Miss G wanted to repay had been taken out just the month before. I think  EDL 
ought to have  been concerned that Miss G was relying  on credit to meet  an ongoing need.  She had 
Ref: DRN68492866only recently taken out a large loan from a high cost lender and yet wanted to take out further credit to 
repay this and to spend further. 
I think  it was obvious by this point that Miss Gs financial situation was such that agreeing  further 
credit for her was likely to add to her financial difficulties. Miss G now needed to pay more  interest on 
top of the interest she owed to the high cost provider. Shed recently been indebted to EDL for about 
16 months and was now asking  to borrow more than twice what  she had before. It doesnt seem to 
me that shed  managed to free herself of a need  for credit  and agreeing this loan simply prolonged 
her indebtedness, potentially for another three years. Furthermore, the number of times shed 
borrowed from EDL and the amount she was now borrowing was likely  to be seen negatively  by other 
lenders, potentially  keeping her in the market  for higher  cost loans. 
Taking everything into account, I dont  think  EDL treated  Miss G fairly when it agreed to lend to her a 
third time. Miss G didnt manage to repay this loan as agreed.  She eventually  entered  into a debt 
management plan with a national charity in autumn 2016 and repaid  this loan in 2018.  She says this 
was with gambling funds. 
Miss G says I have been severely  affected both financially and mentally. With loan companies 
lending so easily to me when my credit report showed missed and late payments and my bank 
statements showing gambling debts they have assisted me further into debt. I have suffered  mentally 
with the spirals of debt leading to, at times, uncontrollable gambling to try and win some money  to pay 
off the debt.  
I dont doubt that Miss G has had a very difficult time of it and Im sorry to hear of this. I understand 
that her loans have been repaid. In order to put things right for her in respect of EDLs irresponsible 
lending decisions,  I think she should not have to pay any interest, fees or charges associated  with 
these loans and so should have these amounts refunded to her, along  with compensatory  interest.  
Ive set out in detail  below what should happen now.
What EDL should do to put things  right
Miss G shouldnt repay more than the capital amounts she borrowed for her three loans agreed in 
2014 to 2016. 
So to put things right for Miss G, EDL should:
a)refund all interest, fees and charges  that she paid for her loans; and
b)add 8% simple interest  to these payments  from the date they were made  to the date the 
complaint is settled; and
c)remove any adverse  information from Miss Gs credit file in relation to loans 1 and 2 and 
remove all information  about loan 3 as any information  recorded  about it was likely  to be 
adverse.
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must give 
Miss G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My provisional decision
I plan to uphold Miss Gs complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited  to put things right as Ive 
set out above.
Ill wait four weeks to see if either party has anything further to add  before considering my decision  
on this complaint once more.
-END-
Ref: DRN6849286