K822xcomplaint
Miss H has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc sent her credit card 
and PIN to the wrong address.
background 
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 30 May 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I invited both parties to let me have any further  
comments and evidence.
Miss H and Marks & Spencer both accepted by provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given my decision has been accepted by 
both parties, I dont intend to depart from it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision my final decision is I uphold this complaint. 
I require Marks & Spencer Financial  Services Plc to pay Miss H £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63424202Copy of provisional  decision
background
Miss H took out a credit card with Marks & Spencer in January 2019.  When  Marks  and Spencer sent 
her letters containing the card and PIN they were addressed to a different property in the same street  
where Miss H lives.
Miss H complained  to Marks and Spencer and it told her it had updated her address on its systems  
and all future  mailing would be sent to the correct address.
Miss H wasnt  happy  with Marks  & Spencers response and referred  her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should be upheld. He noted  that Marks & Spencer had 
offered Miss H £30 compensation which  she hadnt  accepted.  He thought  the offer was fair and 
reasonable and was still available for Miss H to accept.
Miss H didnt agree with our adjudicators  recommendation.  She doesnt think  £30 compensation  is 
sufficient.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen the application for the credit  card that Miss H signed. Her correct  address is shown  on the 
application and should have been recorded on Marks & Spencers systems. The address wasnt 
recorded correctly and the service Miss H received was below the standard she was entitled to 
expect.
The letters were delivered to Miss H unopened and she hasnt  suffered any financial loss as a result 
of Marks & Spencers error.  But she has suffered trouble and upset through  having  to contact Marks  & 
Spencer to rectify its mistake and her concern that her card and PIN could have fallen into the wrong 
hands.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded £30 is a sufficient amount to compensate Miss H for the 
trouble and upset she incurred as a result of Marks & Spencers error. I think  she should  receive 
£150.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I receive from the parties  my provisional decision is 
I uphold this complaint. I require Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to pay Miss H £150.
Ref: DRN6342420