K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained because Santander UK Plc refused to write off the amount he owes  on his 
credit card even though  he cant afford  to make the repayments and his financial situation is 
unlikely to change.
background
The outstanding balance  on Mr Ms credit card is just over £2,000. He asked Santander to 
write the balance off because of his medical  situation. Santander refused to do so. Mr M 
brought a complaint to us about that and one of my colleagues decided  that Santander's  
decision was reasonable.
Mr M then asked  Santander to write the balance  off because of his financial situation. He 
said he was never likely to pay the amount owing as his income  wasnt likely to change, and 
the terms of a lifetime  mortgage he held mean it's unlikely there'll be any funds in his estate 
that could be used to pay the balance. Santander again refused to write the debt off.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt the most likely  way the 
balance would be repaid is if there are funds in Mr Ms estate. And he felt if the house was 
sold in the next 12/13  years there might be some proceeds leftover from the sale after the 
mortgage had been repaid which could be used to pay Santander. He didnt therefore  think it 
was fair to ask Santander to write off the debt. Mr M didnt agree with our investigators 
conclusion so the complaint has been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has borrowed the money from Santander and has had the use of that money. So, on 
that basis its not unreasonable for him to be expected to repay  that money. However 
Santander, like all other lenders, has a duty to treat customers fairly and to be sympathetic 
to consumers in financial difficulty.
Santander agreed to stop applying interest and fees to the account, and it told Mr M that as 
long as he was classed as a vulnerable consumer the debt wouldnt be sold on to a third 
party. I think in doing this Santander treated Mr M fairly. The issue  is whether it needs to go 
a step further  and write the debt off now.
Unless Mr Ms circumstances change, I agree that the most likely way the credit  card will be 
repaid is if there are funds available in his estate. And it seems from what  Ive seen that if 
there are any funds in the estate they will come from any surplus  once the house is sold and 
the mortgage repaid. However, Im not persuaded thats sufficient ground for me to conclude 
that its fair to make Santander  write the debt off.
Mr Ms argument is largely based  on there  being no surplus because  any funds from the sale 
of the house would go towards paying off the mortgage. Thats true to an extent, but the 
amount needed  to repay the mortgage will depend  on how much the outstanding mortgage 
balance is at the time. If, for example, the mortgage ran until 2034 the outstanding balance 
would be nearly  £290,000. And if the value of Mr Ms house  increased by 1% per year in that 
time it would  be valued at approximately  £296,000.  So I can see some  logic in the argument  
Ref: DRN68037802that all funds from the sale of the house  would go towards  repaying  the mortgage   leaving 
nothing to go into Mr Ms estate.
But at the other end of the scale, in 2023  (for example) the outstanding balance  on the 
mortgage would be around £153,000. And if the value of Mr Ms house increased  by 1% per 
year in that time it would be valued  at approximately £265,000. So if the house was sold 
then thered be more  than enough  money from the sale proceeds  to repay the mortgage.  In 
fact, it would take until around  2031/2032  before  the outstanding balance  on the mortgage 
came close  to the value  of the house. So, if the house is sold in the next 12/13 years  theres  
a distinct possibility that the proceeds  from the sale will cover the outstanding mortgage 
amount, with money left over. And if that happens  Santander might be able to claim some of 
the surplus from Mr Ms estate to repay  the amount outstanding on the credit card. If I make 
Santander write the debt off now it will lose that potential opportunity   which  I think is unfair.
It is of course possible that the value of Mr Ms house  will decrease  over the expected  term 
of the mortgage.  But given the general trends of the property market  I think  its fair to work 
on the basis that the most likely scenario is that the value is going to increase.
To summarise, no-one knows  when  the house will be sold,  how much  it will sell for, how 
much (if anything)  will be leftover once the mortgage  is repaid, or if any surplus will go to 
Mr Ms estate.  But as things currently stand, there remains a reasonable possibility that there  
will be money left over once the mortgage  is paid off, which  in turn might  go into Mr Ms 
estate. And whilst thats a reasonable possibility,  I dont  think its fair to make Santander 
write the debt off now. In my opinion, Santander has treated Mr M fairly by freezing further  
interest and charges and agreeing to not sell the debt on1. It goes too far to make Santander 
go a step further  and write the whole debt off now as I think its too much  of a stretch to fairly  
conclude that Mr Ms estate wont have any funds available to repay the credit  card.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019. 
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
1 I know things  might  have now changed  in respect of Santander selling  the debt on but were 
considering a separate complaint about  Santanders decision whether  or not to default the debt.
Ref: DRN6803780