K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has wrongly declined her claim on her home  
insurance policy.
When I refer to AXA, that includes any contractors, firms or agents involved in handling or 
processing any stages  of Mrs Ps claim, unless otherwise stated. 
background
Mrs P reported a theft from her home to AXA and claimed on her home  insurance policy.
AXA declined her claim, saying the incident  was subject to an exclusion in her policy.
Mrs P complained to AXA, but it didnt uphold her complaint. It said it hadnt  seen  evidence  
of signs of damage caused  by a thiefs violent or forcible entry  into Mrs Ps property  
necessary, it said, to meet the requirements  of her policy.
Mrs P complained to us, and an investigator thought Mrs P had provided all the information 
and evidence AXA had asked from her. And she thought Mrs Ps claim was covered by her 
policy. She asked AXA to reconsider Mrs Ps claim, subject to the remaining policy terms, 
conditions and limits.  And she asked  them  to compensate Mrs P for the distress  and 
inconvenience it had caused her over its handling and rejecting of her claim.
AXA didnt agree, saying it felt Mrs Ps claim was not a valid one. And that once it had 
declined her claim, it said shed changed the details of her description  of the circumstances 
of the theft. So, the matter has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am upholding this complaint. I will 
explain why.
AXA has declined Mrs Ps claim because  it says it hasnt seen any signs  of damage caused  
by the thiefs or thieves  violent or forcible  entry to her property. 
Mrs Ps policy booklet and policy schedule both say signs  of damage  caused by the thief (or 
thieves) to get into the Home are required for theft cover  to be provided by the policy. 
Contrary to AXAs stance  on this matter, Mrs Ps policy doesnt require there to be evidence 
of a violent or forcible entry for theft cover to be provided. And its not fair for it to say such  
evidence needs  to be apparent for cover  to be provided.
Ive considered the evidence AXA had available to determine whether a theft had occurred in 
circumstances that Mrs Ps policy provided cover for.
After finding out the theft had happened, Mrs P called a locksmith  to make her window 
lockable. She has provided  AXA with the invoice she received from the locksmith.
Ive considered AXAs comment that it hasnt  been able to find the locksmith  listed  in any 
directory, and that his invoice is a Word document. I understand that AXA need to verify 
Ref: DRN60728232the claim and can only do that by the evidence presented. But Ive looked closely  at the 
policy booklet and policy schedule on this matter. I cant  find any condition,  clause or 
exclusion that says Mrs P must engage the services of a listed  locksmith  or that he should 
be able to issue a certain  type of invoice for his work. So I dont think  its reasonable for AXA 
to consider there to have been  any breach  of Mrs Ps policy conditions in these respects.  
The locksmiths invoice,  dated the day he attended  Mrs Ps property, says:
  1) Emergency call out to property  after break  in  
   2) Carry  out repairs to lock mechanism to kitchen window 
Whilst the locksmiths point 1 cant have  been made from his own observations  of a break in 
occurring  he wasnt at the house  when the intruder  entered  the locksmiths point 2, made 
having attended the property, is based on what he actually did when there.
During its investigation in to Mrs Ps claim, AXA phoned the locksmith  to discuss  what  hed 
seen and what hed done when he attended  her property. Ive listened to this call, and the 
locksmith said he adjusted  the mechanism to make sure it locked and he reset it. He said 
the mechanism  had been mucked  about  with and tampered with. And he also said that 
entry could have  been gained by somebody  putting their arm up inside the ajar window. Its 
my understanding that having  put their arm up inside the window,  the locksmith  says the 
intruder could disengage the mechanism in some way. This would be from a direction it 
wasnt designed to be operated from. And, in a manner over and above  what  would normally  
be necessary to open the window, enough  to open  it to give the intruder access inside the 
house. Ive concluded the thief has likely used an unnatural means  to gain access.
Ive also considered that Mrs P has said she left the window  open by three inches,  but on 
the safety catch so she could provide air into the room  after shed cleaned it. She 
described the catch on the window as one designed for safety  to prevent the window from 
being opened wide enough  by a child for them to climb out of. Whilst Mrs P hasnt  described  
this catch as a lock, she has described  it as having the effect of restricting  the opening of the 
window further  than the position its engaged at, unless intentionally disengaged.
On balance, Im persuaded that the locksmith had seen signs  that the window mechanism 
had been tampered with sufficiently to require him to take action to adjust it back  to a 
working and lockable  condition again.  Whether the locksmiths intervention with the window 
mechanism is described as a reset or as a repair does not, in my opinion, alter that he 
had to take action,  for which he charged, to make  the window mechanism fully operational 
again.  
I think these signs satisfy  Mrs Ps policy condition that requires signs of damage  caused by 
the thief (or thieves) to get into the Home. 
During its investigation, AXA asked Mrs P for photos of the window mechanism before it was 
worked on by the locksmith, and during the repair. Mrs P hasnt provided those photos but I 
am mindful  of the distress  that Mrs P has described  she felt when she realised an intruder 
had been inside her home  while she was in it. I can understand  her first instincts wouldve 
been to get her home secure again,  and report  the incident to the police and her home 
insurer  all of which she did. And I can understand that she wouldnt have thought about 
taking photographs of the intruders potential points of entry.  
Ref: DRN60728233When Mrs P phoned AXA to report the incident,  she was told to call it back another day. 
AXA didnt take the opportunity during her first call to it to ask for photos to be taken before 
any work to secure  her property started. I dont think AXA can fairly  infer anything about  the 
theft incident, and whether Mrs Ps policy covers  the loss, solely  on the absence  of photos  of 
the signs of window damage, or the absence of photos of the repair being done  as photos 
of neither are specified in her policy  documents  as necessary for a claim to be valid. 
Mrs P told AXA that she reported  the theft to the police  she gave it the crime number. And 
she said the police sent a fingerprint specialist to her home  to look for fingerprints  that might  
help identify the intruder. Mrs P told AXA that the person sent to capture any fingerprints  
said that the cold weather had probably  prevented  them from finding any fingerprints 
residue. 
Mrs P has said she contacted her local authority to see if the CCTV  camera  in front of her 
property had recorded footage that might  be useful to the police. She said she was told the 
camera faces away from her home  so no useful footage would be available to the police.
Mrs P had done everything I would expect her to do in the circumstances of discovering the 
theft. And she had done everything  her policy required her to do when discovering  a theft. 
So I think AXA should consider her claim, subject to the remaining  terms and conditions  of 
her policy and any policy limits.
Mrs Ps co-operation with AXA continued  beyond  the actions shed taken upon discovering  
the loss. AXA asked Mrs P to provide  evidence  she owned the high value stolen  items.  In 
response, she provided photos of her late son wearing the items up until the time she said 
he died  at which time she took possession of them.  She also gave AXA a written  valuation 
for the two high value items  shed  had done  a few days  before the theft incident.  
AXA also asked Mrs P for evidence that supported her whereabouts immediately before the 
incident. And Mrs P provided paperwork relating to her hospital admission and discharge.
Mrs P says AXAs questioning of her over her whereabouts before the incident and her 
ownership of the high value items  caused  her distress. And although AXA was entitled to do 
this as part of its handling of her claim,  I can understand she felt that way. Whilst Ive seen 
evidence that AXA had noted it felt Mrs P was a vulnerable customer, I think its decision to 
ask for evidence about Mrs Ps whereabouts prior to the theft incident didnt acknowledge 
the vulnerability it had noted. And that Mrs P was only in possession of the high value 
jewellery items because  of the death  of her oldest son doesnt appear to have always  been 
acknowledged in the manner in which AXA investigated her claim. 
Ref: DRN60728234Mrs P has given  AXA a very detailed  description of the events leading up to the theft. She 
did this on the phone  when she first reported her loss to AXA. And she described events 
again, in writing to us, several months after the claim was made  to AXA.  Both accounts 
describe the same sequence of events.  Im mindful  that this sequence of events began with 
her emergency admission to hospital following an adverse reaction to medication. 
But AXA has said Mrs P changed  her account  of the theft after it had indicated it might 
decline her claim. It refers to Mrs Ps description  of a bent window arm and missing screws. 
And AXA has noted that neither Mrs P or the locksmith refer to a bent window arm or 
missing screws in their original accounts  of events.
I have thought about the locksmiths account of the work he did. Neither his written  account 
of the work he did or the phone call he had with AXA reveal much detail about the exact 
nature of the work  he did on the window. I dont think its fair for AXA to conclude  that parts 
of the window werent bent, just because the locksmith didnt describe his repair  to those 
parts in detail.
And I also dont think its unreasonable for Mrs P to recall the bent window arm when AXA 
declined of her claim. I think its conceivable  that she thought  the evidence  already given to 
AXA was sufficient to successfully claim on her policy  for the theft. So Ive concluded that the 
detail given by Mrs P about the bent window arm was not an attempt by her to change  her 
story with the intention  of validating an invalid claim, but one to reinforce her claim with 
additional detail  that would have  the effect  of satisfying AXAs  concerns  about the absence 
of signs of damage caused  by the thief when he gained entry.    
Because of the failure by AXA to be mindful of Mrs Ps vulnerability in the investigation of her 
claim, I think  it should compensate her for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. To settle  it, AXA Insurance UK Plc 
should take the steps outlined above, which for clarity are:
1)Consider Mrs Ps claim, accepting there were signs of damage caused  by the thief, 
but subject to remaining policy terms and conditions 
2)Pay Mrs P compensation  of £200 for distress and inconvenience  caused in the 
handling of her claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Adrian Bird
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6072823