K821x#15complaint
Miss G complained about her home insurer Tesco Underwriting Limited  following repairs it 
carried out after her home suffered a water  leak.
background
Miss G had a leak from her en-suite  and Tesco carried  out repairs which involved taking  out 
and reinstating the shower. In January  2018 Miss G reported that there was further water 
damage; to the floor in the en-suite and the ceiling below. Tesco began investigating the 
issue but it was August  2018 before its contractor accepted that its faulty workmanship in 
reinstating the shower had caused the current problems.
Tesco issued a final response to Miss G in August  which  noted  that a start date for 
rectification work was being arranged. It said compensation for the upset caused by its delay 
in accepting that it needed to resolve the issue would be considered after the reinstatement 
work had been  completed.
The work, bar some  painting, was completed  by early November. Tesco said it wouldnt do 
the painting as Miss G needed to resolve a pre-existing ventilation  issue. But it would pay 
her £141.43  for her to carry out the work. It felt this was a reasonable price but it wasnt  
based on any estimate provided by Miss G. Regarding compensation it spoke to its 
contractor and it was agreed that £500 would be paid. Miss G remained unhappy and 
progressed with a complaint that shed made to this service.
Our investigator felt that Tesco should  pay Miss Gs cost for carrying out the painting  over 
and above the £141.43 offered  and it accepted this. She also felt that it should  pay a total of
£750 compensation. Tesco wasnt minded to agree to this and the complaint was passed  to 
me for a decision to be made.
The complaint was passed  to me and I wasnt persuaded it would be fair to make Tesco pay 
more than £500 compensation. I issued a provisional decision to share my thoughts on this 
with both parties. Theyve now considered  my findings and responded. Tesco  had nothing  
further to say. Miss G said she hadnt  had the work  done yet. She indicated she may have 
further points  to make and our investigator asked  that she do so by 3 May 2019. Nothing 
further was received. Ive no reason to change my provisional findings  save  to say that 
I will direct  Tesco to consider any evidence of cost that Miss G sends to it. My provisional  
findings are now the findings (set out below) of this, my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
painting
Tesco didnt  want to do this work as it couldnt be sure it would last without the ventilation 
issue being sorted it. Its reasonable then for it to pay what  it will cost Miss G to carry out this 
work. I havent  seen  an estimate for this though.  And Im also not sure if Tesco paid Miss G 
the amount it said it would cost it to do the work   £141.43.
Ref: DRN61546222Miss G hasnt presented an estimate for the work (and Tesco hasnt shown me if payment has 
been made). Therefore,  Im going to direct  Tesco to pay Miss G her cost for painting the 
en-suite, if she evidences this to it, less any amount it can show it has already paid her for 
this work. It wont have to pay any amount of VAT unless or until a VAT invoice is provided.  
Im not going  to make Tesco pay interest as Miss G hasnt been out of pocket.
compensation
It is upsetting to see further damage  occur to your home. And I appreciate that it was 
frustrating that Tescos contractor (and therefore  Tesco) wouldnt accept liability for the 
damage. But I do note that Tesco kept pressing it and challenging the contractor, so I think it 
kept Miss Gs best interests in mind  whilst  dealing with this issue.
I know  that once  it was accepted that the matter had to be resolved it took a couple of
months for work to be completed. But I dont think there were any unreasonable or avoidable 
delays caused  during  that time by Tesco (including its contractor). And it was reasonable in 
my view, as I said above, for it to not carry out the painting work itself.
Compensation awards are made to make  up for the distress and inconvenience of what  went 
wrong. They arent designed to punish insurers, or to make them change how they do 
business in the future.  They also are not made proportionally  so I dont award an amount 
for how the contractor acted and another  amount  for Tescos  role in things. Rather I look at 
everything that happened and the upset the complainant was caused. Then applying this 
services approach to compensation awards I decide  what figure fairly and reasonably  
makes up for the trouble and upset caused. In this case, for everything that happened  
between January 2018 and the point the re-work in the en-suite was completed (barring  the 
painting) in November 2018, Im satisfied that £500 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Therefore, Im not going  to make Tesco pay anything more.
period for consideration
Tesco may wonder  why Ive gone beyond  the date of its final response when looking at 
compensation (although it had already agreed that we could look at the painting issue).  
However, its final response didnt give Miss G an answer on compensation; it deferred doing  
that until the work was completed.  Following that, and despite the painting issue  being 
outstanding, Tesco didnt issue a further final response. Even when this service notified  it 
about Miss Gs complaint.  Im satisfied that reasonably brings  its activity  up until
November 2018  into the arena of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint in part. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to cover Miss Gs costs  
for completing painting work in her en-suite. If she shows it evidence of this it will have pay 
her that sum, less anything it can show it has paid her already for this work,  and less VAT 
unless or until a VAT invoice is presented.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6154622