K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about the voiding of her policy  by Tokio Marine  Kiln Insurance Limited  
(Tokio Marine). 
background
Mrs D held landlord cover with Tokio Marine, when  a tenant left the property in disrepair she 
made a claim. Tokio Marine after some delay rejected the claim and voided the policy. They 
said Mrs D hadnt told them all the relevant information when renewing the policy. In 
particular about  who was living at the property. Mrs D complained to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter but did not uphold it. They  agreed  that the 
offer of £200 for delay  was payable, but didnt  agree that the policy voidance was wrong.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either, for the same reasons as the investigator.  
The policy in question  renewed in March 2017 on the basis that the property was let as a 
private rental / professional. Investigations later revealed that in January  2017 Mrs D had 
been to court to evict the tenant and in that same  January had very good  reason to think the 
property was being sub-let in part to persons unknown to her. I think  this is enough for the 
insurer to void the policy. It is clear that the answer to who the property was let to wasnt 
answered correctly. 
I realise Mrs D thinks this error was on the part of her broker,  not her, but that is the subject 
of a separate complaint  against the broker that I am considering under a separate  reference. 
In this case against Tokio Marine  I think the 2017 policy  was rightly voidable  in view of the 
answer to the tenant question, so I wont be asking them to do anything  else. 
The £200  award for delay when Tokio Marine were  considering the matter seems  
appropriate and I wont be awarding anything extra in that respect either.  
I would add that if the damage claimed for had happened  prior to the renewal date than 
Mrs D might have  been covered under  her previous policy, but it did not. 
Ref: DRN60523212my final decision
I make  no award against Tokio Marine Kiln Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6052321