K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about Zenith Insurance plc. He isnt happy  that it avoided  his 
commercial van insurance policy (treated it as if it never existed)  and refused to pay his 
claim.
background
Mr G took out insurance for his vehicle through  a comparison  website and then a broker.  His 
insurance was placed  with Zenith and when  his vehicle was stolen, he made  a claim under 
his policy.
Zenith looked into the matter but decided  it wouldnt  pay the claim. It declined  the claim,  
avoided his policy and returned his premiums.  When Mr G complained, it said hed 
answered the questions about  the vehicle incorrectly and he hadnt told it the vehicle was a 
tipper. It said that had Mr G have answered  the questions correctly it wouldnt have provided 
cover. And as Zenith thought this was a careless misrepresentation by Mr G it said it was 
entitled to avoid his policy and refuse to pay the claim. But as it didnt think Mr G had done 
this deliberately it refunded Mr Gs premium. As Mr G wasnt  happy about this he 
complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He agreed  there  
had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And that Zenith had shown it wouldnt have 
provided cover if it had of known Mr Gs vehicle  was a tipper and not a van. So he didnt 
think Zenith had done anything  wrong.
As Mr G didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and despite my natural 
sympathy for the position  Mr G finds himself, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
This has clearly been a very difficult time for Mr G. He has been the victim of crime and his 
insurer wont pay out following the theft of his vehicle. But I can only ask an insurer to 
change its position  if it has done  something  wrong  and having  looked at all the information in 
detail, I dont think it has.
As our investigator explained, as a commercial  customer Mr G has a duty to make sure he 
tells the insurer  all it needs to know so it can consider the risk it is prepared  to accept. So, 
Zenith needed to be told about everything  that would affect its decision to offer cover and the 
terms and costs that surround its offer.  And in this instance, it has provided evidence  to 
show that had it been made aware that Mr Gs van was in fact a tipper, it wouldnt have 
provided cover at all. This was a risk it wasnt prepared to accept.
I know Mr G says he went through a comparison website initially. And he is adamant he just 
input the details of his vehicle and that the system auto populated. But Ive seen screenshots  
from the comparison website that he used, and it shows a drop-down box to choose whether 
his vehicle was a van or a tipper.  And I note Mr G told his insurer  that his wife entered the 
details into the comparison website, so it just sounds like a mistake was made. Furthermore, 
Ref: DRN67119392there was an onus on Mr G to check the documentation  provided by Zenith which  outlined  
that it was insuring a van, not a tipper.
Zenith has also decided  that Mr Gs failure to provide this information was careless  as 
opposed to a deliberate  act by Mr G. As such it has refunded his premium in 
acknowledgement of the fact it wouldnt have provided cover but that it knows  Mr G didnt do 
this deliberately, as some  people do. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Given all of this, I cant  say Zenith  has done  anything wrong. And so I cant ask it to change  
how it has dealt with Mr Gs claim despite my natural sympathy for him.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6711939