K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold Select,  Platinum and Premier 
packaged bank  accounts to him sometime before August 2001, in 2006 and 2008. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Bs complaint and didnt think  Lloyds had mis-sold the 
packaged accounts. Mr B disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Bs complaint.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  that Lloyds 
mis-sold the packaged  account to Mr B. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr B was given a clear  choice in taking his packaged 
accounts. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in working  out what I think is most likely  
to have happened, I have  to think about everything Ive been  told together  with everything 
else Ive been  provided with and see how this fits with what  I do know. In other words, what  l 
have to do, in this case, is decide  what  I think  is most likely to have happened  having 
weighed up what Mr B and Lloyds have been able to provide  me with.  
why I think that Mr B was given a clear choice to take her packaged  accounts
Lloyds cant say for sure what type of account Mr Bs account was opened  as because its 
records only go back to August 2001  and these suggest that Mr B had a Select account at 
that point. But the Select  account wasnt generally  available to Lloyds customers  until the 
late 1990s. And the information Ive seen  suggests Mr Bs account was opened before this. 
So I think its likely Mr Bs account  was originally opened as a free one. Mr B also returned to 
a free account before he was sold the Platinum and Premier ones. And this switch  back  to 
and from a free account suggests  that Mr B knew he had a choice. 
Overall and having thought about  everything, I think its most  likely  Mr B was given a clear 
choice in taking  out the packaged accounts.  And I think that he chose to take them, on each 
occasion, as he was most likely  interested in the benefits.
why I dont think that the Select account was mis-sold to Mr B.
Lloyds has suggested  it mightve recommended the Select account to Mr B. But neither Mr B 
nor Lloyds have been  able to confirm when the account was sold, or tell me anything about 
what was discussed  at the time. So, in truth, Ive not seen enough here to be able to safely 
say Lloyds recommended  the Select  account  to Mr B. And Ive looked at this complaint on 
the basis the account wasnt recommended. This means Lloyds needed to provide Mr B with 
clear enough  information  so that he could decide if the account was right for him.
Ref: DRN63543452I should start by saying  that I think its likely Mr B wouldve been told about most, if not all, of 
the benefits on the account in order to make  it appear as attractive  as possible. After all 
Lloyds was trying to persuade him to have it when he most  likely knew  he didnt have to. And 
the best way to have done  this wouldve  been by telling him about what hed get for the 
monthly fee. 
As I dont know exactly when Mr B upgraded to the Select account its difficult for me to see 
what exactly he was attracted to at the time. But I think there  probably  were some benefits 
included on the account that Mr B is likely to have found useful. At the time Mr B upgraded, 
the main benefits  included  were  likely  to have been preferential terms on loans as well as 
breakdown cover. 
Mr B drove and had access to a vehicle. So I havent seen anything  to suggest he couldnt 
have used the breakdown  cover. It also looks like he used the breakdown cover on a 
significant number  of occasions during the period he had packaged accounts with Lloyds.  
Overall everything Ive seen suggests Mr B used some of the benefits on the Select  account  
and he was eligible  for and couldve used most, if not all, of the others too. And as this is the 
case, I think its most likely that Mr B was provided  with enough to know  what  it was he was 
agreeing to when  he was sold the Select account.    
why I dont think that the Platinum and Premier accounts were  mis-sold to Mr B.
Lloyds has said that it recommended  the Platinum and Premier accounts to Mr B. So Lloyds 
needed to make sure it made fair recommendations, by taking adequate steps to ensure that 
the selected account was a reasonable fit for Mr Bs circumstances at the time it was 
recommended. 
Having thought about Mr Bs circumstances and his actions since  taking the accounts, I dont 
think that Lloyds  unfairly  or inappropriately recommended the Platinum or Premier  account 
to him. I say this because  I think that Mr B was attracted to some  of the benefits, was able to 
use some  of them and couldve  used others  too. And it looks  to me that the respective 
account chosen was a reasonable  match  when  the benefits Mr B had a need for and may 
have wanted are taken  into account.  
Mr B also had a more comprehensive level of breakdown cover  available to him on the 
Platinum account  then hed had on his Select  one. And I understand that Mr B used this too 
on a number of occasions. When Mr B upgraded to the Premier account he continued  to 
have all the benefits hed had on her Platinum account. In addition  to this, Mr B also had 
home emergency cover available  to him. 
Mr B successfully called  out the provider on more than one occasion. I appreciate  there was 
an occasion where the provider said a repair Mr B was looking to have carried  out wasnt  
covered. But thats because  this wasnt classed as an emergency.  And these types of repair 
are normally  covered by home insurance  rather  than home  emergency  cover.  
So I dont  think that Mr B being  unable to use the service on this occasion means that the 
cover was unsuitable or that the Premier  account  was mis-sold. Mr Bs use of the cover  also 
suggests he found having it useful.  Id also point out the Premier  account was the only one in 
Lloyds range to include  home emergency  cover.
Ref: DRN63543453I accept the Platinum and Premier accounts included other benefits  such  as travel  
insurance and mobile phone  insurance  - and Mr B may not have wanted or needed each 
and every one of them. But the benefits  on packaged accounts arent tailored to individuals 
and its rare for an accountholder to find each and every benefit useful. At the time they were 
recommended, the Platinum and Premier  accounts  were the cheapest  or only one in Lloyds 
range to include all of the benefits Mr B appears to have had a want  and need for at the time 
of sale. So I dont think it was unfair  for Lloyds to recommend  those accounts  to him.
Im open  to the possibility that Mr B may not have been told about all of the significant 
features and exclusions on all of the benefits when the accounts were sold to him. But I 
havent seen anything in his circumstances  to say that he wouldve been  significantly  
affected by any of them. So I dont think that clearer information wouldve  stopped  him from 
taking the accounts in the first place.
Mr B may now believe he hasnt benefitted  from his packaged accounts as much  as hed 
hoped and expected. And given what he may have read about  packaged  bank accounts  in 
general, I can understand why he might now think his accounts  were mis-sold. But I think  its 
most likely Mr B upgraded  after having been provided with a choice. And he used the 
benefits he wanted the accounts for. So I want to reassure  Mr B that having looked  at 
everything provided and thought about what hes said, my independent  conclusion  is that 
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold her packaged  accounts to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6354345