K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, closed their 
accounts.
background 
Mr and Mrs S held a number of bank  accounts with Halifax. One of the accounts was in their 
joint names and the others were in Mrs Ss sole name.
In April 2018 Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs S saying  it intended to close  their accounts. Mrs S 
says she contacted Halifax when she received the letters and it told her it wasnt  going to 
close all the accounts.  She transferred money from the accounts she thought  would be 
closed to an account she thought would stay open.
In June 2018 Mrs S tried to access the accounts  using a mobile  banking  app but was 
unsuccessful. She contacted Halifax and was told all her accounts and the joint account had 
been closed.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Halifax. It agreed it had given them  incorrect  information about 
which accounts would be closed. It sent them a cheque for £125  to compensate them  for this 
and it said it would also cover their out-of-pocket expenses  of £36. Mr and Mrs S didnt 
accept Halifaxs offer of compensation  and referred the complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  think Halifax had treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and reasonably and 
thought it should increase the amount  of compensation to £500  plus the £36 it had agreed.
Halifax accepted  our adjudicators recommendation but Mr and Mrs S said they thought they 
should receive £500 in addition to the amount Halifax had already paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax is entitled to make a commercial  decision  on whether it wishes to continue to do 
business with individual  customers. It isnt obliged to give a reason if it decides to close  a 
customers accounts. But, if it wants to close a customers  accounts it must do so in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the accounts. It must  also ensure the customer  
is fully aware of the accounts that are going to be closed  so that they can make alternative 
arrangements for their banking needs.
Halifax has accepted  the level of service  it gave Mr and Mrs S in relation to the closure of 
their accounts was below  the level they were  reasonably entitled to expect. This caused  
Mr and Mrs S unnecessary trouble and upset as well as some out-of-pocket expenses.
Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of this case, £500 is an appropriate  amount  to 
compensate Mr and Mrs S for the trouble and upset  they suffered. In addition Halifax  should 
pay them  £36 to cover  their out-of-pocket  expenses. I dont agree That Mr and Mrs S should 
receive £500 in addition  to what Halifax has already  paid.
Ref: DRN69730022It isnt clear to me if Mr and Mrs S have cashed  the cheque for £125 Halifax has already sent 
them or if Halifax has paid them the additional £36. So Im going to require Halifax to pay 
them a total of £536 less any sums  that have already been paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay Mr and Mrs S a sum representing £536  less the compensation its 
already paid them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6973002