K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the service provided by American Express Services  Europe Limited 
(American Express)  during a phone  call with a representative.
background
Mr J received a statement  for his credit card account  with American Express,  and contacted 
it to query  the cashback information  on 16 April 2019. The cashback  feature of Mr Js 
account allowed  him to earn cashback depending  on any qualifying  purchases made using  
his American Express credit card. 
During the call Mr J was told that he hadnt  qualified for the cashback option, and thats why 
his statement didnt  include  this. Mr J wasnt happy with this. Mr J was offered the option to 
cancel his credit card account. Mr J chose  to do this. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the way the representative  spoke to him, and asked to speak to a 
manager. The representative wasnt able to get hold of a manager, and so asked if Mr J 
would be happy  to receive a call back. Mr J asked for a manager to call him back by 1pm. 
The representative said this couldnt  be guaranteed. 
During the end of the call Mr J heard  a dog bark. The representative  explained that she was 
working from home, and she had a dog. She apologised  for any frustration caused to Mr J 
because of this. Mr J wasnt  happy  and terminated  the call. 
Mr J complained to American  Express about the information given to him about his cashback 
option, and the way his call was dealt with. Mr J was particularly unhappy that a manager 
hadnt called  him back  despite him requesting this, and that the call felt like a scam. 
American Express looked at Mr Js complaint, and didnt offer any compensation. Mr J was 
unhappy with this, and referred his complaint to this service. The investigator thought 
American Express hadnt done anything  wrong, and so didnt recommend it pay Mr J any 
compensation. Mr J was unhappy with this response  saying that he didnt get a call back as 
requested; or an apology  for the representative  having a dog in the background. As the 
complaint couldnt  be resolved, its been passed  to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence  I agree 
with the investigators  findings on this complaint. I can understand this is likely  to come as a 
disappointment to Mr J but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached  
this decision. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented  
on any specific point its because I dont  believe  its affected what I think is the right outcome.
representatives response to cashback  query  
Ive looked at Mr Js bank statement dated 10 April 2019, and can see that it explained No 
payment will be made  if the amount of Cashback  earned is less than £25. The amount  of 
cashback earned on Mr Js statement was £23.27. The representative told Mr J that he 
hadnt qualified  for any cashback.  I think the explanation provided by the representative was 
Ref: DRN63408682fair, and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Js credit  card account. So I dont think 
American Express did anything wrong here. 
manager not calling back 
Its not disputed  that during the call Mr J asked to speak  to a manager  as he wasnt  happy 
with the way the representative had dealt with his enquiry about his account.  
Mr J was unhappy with the information given to him about how, and when to make payment 
for the final outstanding balance on his account. He was put on hold whilst the 
representative tried to get hold of a manger.  I can appreciate it mustve been frustrating to be 
put on hold, and then be told no manager  was available.  But I think  the representative asking 
Mr J if she could take some details so a manager could call Mr J back  was fair. 
Mr J says that hes not familiar with a referral  form, and doesnt understand why this was 
mentioned. Whilst Mr J was hoping to speak to a manager right away, this wasnt possible. I 
think the representative acted fairly by saying that she could ask a manager  to call Mr J 
back, but would need to take some details first. I wouldve expected  the representative to 
make a note of Mr Js complaint, and explain the timescales for when Mr J could expect  a 
call back. I think the representative did try to do this but Mr J terminated the call. 
Ive listened to the call recording, and I think the service provided by the American Express  
representative was fair. Its not always possible to speak to a manager right away, but wed 
still expect a business to arrange a call back in line with its agreed  service complaints 
process. I think  the representative  acted reasonably in trying to do this, so I wont be asking  
American Express to pay compensation for this complaint. 
dog barking in background
Mr J says during his call he heard a dog barking in the background. Because  of this Mr J 
questioned whether the call was a scam. Mr J says he wasnt  aware of employees being  
allowed to work from home  with a dog.  
Mr J and American Express  agree  that the representative was working from home, and 
during the call, the representatives  dog was heard barking. Mr J feels strongly that the 
representative didnt  apologise after this happened. 
When the representatives dog was heard barking, and Mr J questioned this, the 
representative said I am a home based worker,  and Im afraid my dog did bark in the 
background and I can only apologise  for that.  
Its not the role of this service to advise a business how to operate. Where a business allows 
its employees to work from home, wed expect the level of service  provided to its customers 
to be unaffected.  In this case,  its not disputed that a dog was heard barking. However I think 
the representative acted quickly in taking  responsibility for this, and apologising to Mr J. I 
think the representatives apology for what had happened was reasonable. Although  Mr J 
wouldve been surprised  at hearing a dog in the background, I cant  see that this had any 
other impact on the level of service provided.  So I wont be recommending  any further 
compensation for this complaint. 
Ref: DRN63408683my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6340868