K820x#14complaint
Miss L is unhappy with Unum Limiteds  decision to decline her claim.
background
Miss L had a group income protection policy provided by her employer. She made  a claim 
the towards the end of 2014  due to a decline in her mental health. Miss L was suffering from 
low mood,  anxiety and panic attacks  owing to family problems.  This was later compounded  
by an accident  in early  2015 whereby she aggravated an existing neck and back problem. 
Miss L said as a result of the accident, she began to experience chronic pain symptoms in 
her neck,  shoulders  and back  which radiated  down to both hands. Because  of this, Miss L 
said she was unable  to work and is still unable  to work. Shed been  signed off by her doctor 
and described  her condition as degenerative  and one of constant  pain. Miss L also asserted 
her mental health problems have been  exacerbated by this.
Miss L said Unum accepted her claim and she was receiving  benefit from November 2014 
but this was suddenly stopped, without warning, in April 2016. She would like Unum to 
reinstate her claim.
Unum said it ceased paying  Miss Ls claim following a review of her circumstances. It said 
that although Miss L had been through a tough time, it did not think  she was as incapacitated 
as it had previously been  believed. Unum  said it based its decision on medical evidence  
gathered, including a functional capacity  evaluation  (FCE), which suggested  she did not 
have a condition  of severity that would prevent a return to work  at this time. Unum  also said 
the medical evidence is not indicative of on-going mental health  problems.
Our investigator said Unum had declined the claim fairly  as it had done so based  on the 
medical evidence  available. He highlighted the two FCE reports identified  inconsistencies 
with the symptoms shed reported  and her functional ability. He also noted there was not a 
clinical diagnosis given  by a specialist pertaining to Miss Ls reported mental health 
problems. He felt that on that basis, Unum had acted fairly in declining her claim.  
Miss L did not agree. She made a number  of arguments, all of which Ive considered, but for 
simplicity, Ill summarise  her main points;
Her GP has prescribed her anti-depressants  and other medication to help her 
manage her mental health problems. She also contested our investigators findings 
related to an absence  of a clinical mental  health  diagnosis and said a further incident 
that took place  in December 2017 is proof of her poor mental state;
Miss L believes  the evidence shes provided, in particular, the evidence  from other  
specialists, including  her psychiatrist,  physiotherapist,  pain management clinic report 
and her GP have  not been  fairly, or appropriately  considered.  
The MRI scans shes  had are consistent with the chronic pain shes reported and 
believes this is evidence enough  of her conditions and symptoms. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN62442622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Extensive medical records  provided with 
this case make it clear that Miss L has been through a difficult  time over the last few years.  
But having  carefully considered all the evidence provided, I wont be upholding her 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its not for me to determine  the extent of Miss Ls injuries, or her capacity to work  and 
complete every day tasks.  Thats the role of the medical professionals  responsible for 
Miss Ls care, including those appointed by Unum. 
Having initially accepted Miss Ls claim, the onus is on Unum to show that Miss L no longer 
meets the terms of her policy.
The applicable  terms is;
7.7.1 Benefit payments  cease 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this policy,  all benefit payments shall cease and 
Unum will have no further liability to, or in respect  of, an incapacitated member  immediately 
on, and with effect from, the earliest of the following:  
(a) The date they cease to be incapacitated
The definition of incapacitated/incapacity  is;
If a member is not required  by the terms of governing the employment relationship, to hold a 
licence or certificate  which is issued  only when the member meets  required medical 
standards; the member is incapacitated  if Unum is satisfied that the member  is
(a)Unable, by reason  of their illness or injury, to perform the material  and substantial  
duties of the insured occupation, and is;
(b)Not performing any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.3 
(proportionate benefit)
If a member is required by the terms governing the employment relationship, to hold such a 
licence or certificate,  the member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is 
unable by reason  of their illness or injury,  to perform the material and substantial
(a)duties of the insured occupation, and of
(a)any-gainful occupation  with any employer  for which they are reasonably fitted  by 
reason of training, education  or experience
What this means is that in order to continue to receive benefit, Miss L would need  to satisfy 
Unum that shes incapacitated and unable to perform the material  and substantial duties of 
her insured  occupation.  But Unum has said Miss Ls behaviour during both FCEs was so 
inconsistent and extreme that its no longer satisfied shes able to accurately report her 
symptoms. And that her testimony is, therefore, no longer reliable. Ive carefully considered  
both FCE reports alongside these comments and I do not think  Unum  is being unreasonable  
here. So because  Unums no longer satisfied Miss L meets  the definition of incapacitated, as 
described above, its entitled to stop paying her claim  from that date. 
Ref: DRN62442623Unum is also bound by the rules  set by the Financial Conduct Authority. Part of these rules 
state it must  not unreasonably reject  a claim. And so that is what  Ive considered as part of 
Miss Ls complaint.  
Miss Ls medical history  is extensive  and complex. In 2012,  she injured her neck and back 
and received medical treatment for this over a sustained period of time. She also had a 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan at the time which diagnosed a mild bulge of the 
C5/6 disc and a mild loss of height in the same area.  Following the incident in 2015, where  
Miss L fell, the medical opinion was that this injury was aggravated and responsible for the 
increased pain in the area. Miss L said she began to experience additional  symptoms,  
including bilateral pain radiating to both hands. 
Miss L has described her diagnosis as her vertebrae  having merged together,  particularly 
her C5/C6/C7/C8 and a severed spinal cord. But Ive not seen any medical evidence  that 
describes her injuries in this way. I have seen an MRI scan and the accompanying medical 
notes from 2015,  following  her fall, and whilst this suggests aggravation of her previous 
injury and detected  a mild bulge  in the C6/7 vertebral disc  which  was not there previously, 
it does not mention anything about  the discs merging. It does, however, go as far as to say 
that the remainder  of the discs the cervical spine appear essentially unremarkable. In other 
words, there was not any further abnormalities detected  as part of that scan.  
Based on this information, and Miss Ls representations  about  her symptoms, and the 
medical evidence  provided by her GP, Unum accepted her claim  and paid her benefit each 
month. 
It was following a review  of her claim that Unum began to investigate further which  led to it 
stopping the payments. It did this because it felt she no longer satisfied the definition of 
incapacity under its policy. The key pieces  of evidence here are the FCE reports  completed 
in April 2016 and a further FCE completed a year later in March  2018. The reason these are 
important is because they highlighted a change in the perceived state of Miss Ls health  and 
her ability to perform certain  tasks. Both reports highlighted inconsistencies with how Miss L 
described her symptoms and the results of the functional ability tests that were conducted
They noted  that when Miss L was tested to complete an action or movement, she did so 
with considerable limitation and demonstrated behavioural pain symptoms. However, it was 
identified that she was able to demonstrate considerably improved  flexion and reaching 
when she was not actively participating in the test scenario. The report  also commented on 
inconsistencies with Miss Ls representations  about driving a manual car, particularly her 
ability to change the gears. During  the FCE she was unable to adequately perform the grip 
test an action, it suggests, she should have  been able to complete given she had disclosed 
her ability to drive a manual transmission car. 
I noted the evaluators comments  said;
her behaviour was so extreme and inconsistent we could no longer be satisfied that her 
reporting was an accurate  reflection
Miss L has since responded to this and said that given the amount and potency of the 
medication she takes, shes not surprised the evaluator reached this conclusion.  
Ref: DRN62442624But whats  missing here is a professional opinion that persuasively and satisfactorily 
challenges the findings of the FCE report.  
Unum sent the reports, twice, to Miss Ls GP, sharing its thoughts  on the evaluation   and 
that it believed  Miss L was ready  to return to work.  The GPs  response was very limited.   
Rather than provide a comprehensive response to Unums letter,  he simply remarked that he 
was at a loss to understand why Unum believed Miss L was fit for work. Unfortunately for 
Miss L, her GP offered  no further input on the report it had shared following her evaluation. 
And so there was no persuasive challenge  to Unums chief medical officers opinion on her 
case. Without a specific or substantial response to the findings  of Miss Ls FCE, Im more 
persuaded by Unums  findings here. I therefore find its decision to stop paying her claim, 
when it did, reasonable, as she does  not satisfy  its terms.
Mental health issues
Miss L has described her mental health problems in detail. Overall,  she described herself as 
incapacitated by her depression and stress. And that her chronic pain makes this even  more  
difficult to manage.  Ive seen Miss Ls medication records  and am satisfied  shes  receiving 
treatment in the form of anti-depressants to help with this  as prescribed by her GP.
I note Miss L was also reviewed by a psychiatrist  in May 2015 due to on-going problems at 
work and a family illness. It appears  as though  these were  what  triggered her poor mental 
health in November 2014 and subsequently led to her not being able to work.  But the 
specialist also noted that;
from a psychiatric point  of view, I do not feel she is incapable of all work. However the 
description of her pain syndrome may preclude work  currently
The reason  Ive highlighted this is because  there  was no clinical diagnosis given by this 
specialist. The report went as far as recording Miss Ls self-reported symptoms. But it does 
not offer a formal diagnosis. And it even suggested theres no psychiatric reason why she 
would be unable to work. The pain syndrome  was described by Miss L and this was 
identified as a reason  why she may not be able to work. But given  the findings of both FCE 
reports, Im less persuaded that this would preclude her from work.   the evidence  available  
suggests she could  have returned to work  and Unum is entitled to rely on it in the way it has. 
I take on board Miss Ls troubled  mental  health  history and given the wider circumstances of 
her complaint, its understandable that she sort help from her GP and other medical  
professionals. But the medical  evidence does not indicate that Miss L has a condition of 
such severity  that would prevent her from returning to work.  Further,  Unum  said the 
information it relied upon to cease paying her claim is not indicative of an on-going  mental 
health problem.  And its because  of this I do not think Unum has acted  unreasonably  in 
terminating her claim.  
Miss L has referred to an incident in December 2017, which resulted in her being  taken to 
the hospital, as proof shes not mentally fit for work.  I understand her opinion that her actions 
would be consistent  with someone  who is seriously  mentally unwell. Ive considered the 
medical evidence  about this situation and it suggests Miss L was very upset following a 
family bereavement. The psychiatric nurse  noted Miss L was regretful over her actions. She 
noted Miss L was drowsy  and kept closing  her eyes, because of this she was unable to 
complete a risk assessment. 
Ref: DRN62442625But it was also noted that she was discharged later that day into the care of her GP. I think  
this suggests  she was not considered  an on-going risk as there was no further  referral  to a 
mental health specialist for a more comprehensive  assessment. Instead, Miss L continued 
taking medication  prescribed by her GP 
Overall, I do not think Unum has stopped Miss Ls benefit unfairly because theres not 
enough medical evidence to satisfy  it that she continues to meet  its definition  of 
incapacitated. I note that following the second  FCE report  in March  2018 it was suggested 
Miss L has another MRI scan to see whether her condition has improved. But Ive not seen 
any evidence that this has taken place. And so considering all the evidence made available 
to me,  I do not think Unum has unfairly declined her claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6244262