K820x#14complaint
Ms Ns complaint is about a request from Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) for her to 
complete and submit  a Tax Residency Self-Certification (TRSC) form. 
She objects  to the request  and has not returned the TRSC form; she alleges that funds in 
her share dealing account have been withheld for this reason;  she alleges that she was 
misled into opening  the account  on the belief that such information would not be required;  
and she seeks recovery of funds  she says she deposited into the account.
background
HSDL disputes the complaint. It says:
Its request was prompted  by the need to comply with the Common Reporting  
Standard (CRS)  and its identification of the fact that Ms Ns account was not 
compliant in this respect.
It was entitled, within  the effect  of the CRS,  its terms for the account and its service 
model, to put the request to Ms N.
Ms Ns account has not been  restricted in any way as a result of the matter  if she is 
experiencing any problems in accessing it or her funds she can seek its assistance. It 
believes the money she seeks to recover is a refund of her full initial  deposit  into the 
account  which  has lost some value since opening   and it does not consider  there  
is a basis for such a claim.
If Ms N retains her objection to the TRSC form and does not complete and return it, 
she must be mindful that it could have to pass her details to the tax authorities to look 
into.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld  for broadly the same  reasons as those given by HSDL.  
Ms N disagreed with this outcome.  She maintained her objection to the TRSC form, her 
allegations and her claim  as summarised  above.  She considers that the form has been  
misrepresented as a new requirement but, she says,  it is not and it is unreasonable  of HSDL  
to suggest otherwise and to have opened  her account and taken the funds she deposited 
before presenting the form (and request) to her. She says she would not have opened the 
account if the request was a part of the account  opening  process. The matter was referred to 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the adjudicator for broadly the same  reasons given by HSDL.
HSDL has confirmed to this service, on record, that it has applied no restriction upon or 
detriment to the operation of Ms Ns share dealing account. Its position is that it is not 
withholding Ms Ns money and the implication is that she is free to withdraw it. In this 
context, there is no basis to uphold her claim that her money  has been withheld  especially 
as she does not appear to have presented us with evidence that this is the case.  
Ref: DRN62621012If, as HSDL  suspects, Ms Ns claim seeks to recover losses  that have been incurred since 
her initial deposit  into the account  I consider such a matter remote to the complaint that has 
been submitted.  The complaint is about the TRSC form, not about HSDL allegedly causing 
Ms N a share  dealing  loss  and I have not seen evidence of such an allegation (or loss).
The TRSC form was sent to Ms N because  her account was identified  as being non-
compliant with CRS. HSDL was entitled  to address that issue by sending her the form and 
asking her to complete  and return it. I have seen the correspondence that was sent in this 
respect and its contents were not unreasonable. I understand Ms Ns point about the timing 
of the request and I appreciate why she would consider that, given her position  on the 
matter, she would not have opened the account if the form was presented as part of the 
account opening process. 
I consider that Ms Ns statement in this respect  that is, not opening the account  if the 
TRSC form was part of the account  opening process  appears to be sincere and she might  
well have withdrawn her application for the account in such  circumstances. However, that 
does not affect  or alter HSDLs right  and, arguably and in the context of CRS compliance,  
obligation  to present the form to her at the time when it was required to address her 
accounts non-compliance with CRS.  I have  not seen evidence  that HSDL  pursued this in an 
unreasonable manner and, as I mentioned above,  its position  is that no restriction or 
operational detriment has been  applied to Ms Ns account.  In terms of the possibility that 
HSDL could refer her account to the tax authorities, that is a matter  defined by any relevant 
tax related requirements upon HSDL and/or its reasonable  commercial  discretion over such  
matters  in either case, I do not consider that this service has a basis  to interfere. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Ms Ns complaint.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or reject  my decision 
before 1 December  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6262101