K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2000 
alongside a mortgage. Mrs C says The Chorley  and District Building  Society  (C&D) mis-sold 
her the PPI. This policy  covered her for unemployment  only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs C says that she was told she had to take out the PPI in order  to get the mortgage. C&D  
say that PPI wasnt a condition  of obtaining a mortgage with it, but agree it was a condition  
of the particular mortgage Mrs C decided to take out. But this doesnt mean the policy  was 
mis-sold. C&D is allowed to set conditions on the lending it provides, but it must make  this 
clear to those looking  to borrow the money. Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Cs mortgage 
information sheet  which states the discounted fixed rate of interest and also specifies that 
unemployment insurance is mandatory,  unless  the borrower is ineligible  for it. So based on 
this evidence along with what Mrs C has said, Im confident she knew  that if she wanted  to 
secure the discounted interest rate on this particular mortgage with C&D she had to take out 
PPI. It was up to Mrs C to decide if she still wanted  to go ahead  with the lending after being 
made aware  of this condition. So, I dont think C&D did anything  wrong  here.
Mrs C says she wasnt given any advice or recommendation to take out the policy.  C&D 
says it advised  her to take it out. However,  it is not necessary for me make a conclusive 
determination on this point. This is because I have not found that the policy was unsuitable 
for Mrs C for the reasons  set out below. So, even  if I assume advice was given, it does not 
affect the outcome of this complaint. 
As Ive said above,  based on what Ive seen of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, I think  the 
policy was suitable  for her. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Even though  the PPI policy was something  Mrs C had to take with this particular mortgage 
C&D still had to make sure she was given clear  information, and enough of it, to make a well 
informed decision when  agreeing to take the policy and, by extension, the mortgage.  So 
thats what Ive looked  at.
Its possible the information C&D gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable  for her, I also think  it wouldve 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont 
think better information about  the policy wouldve made Mrs C make  a different decision 
about taking it out  particularly as it seems she wanted this type of mortgage with C&B.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN67266672Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6726667