K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Hoist Finance UK Limited represented by Robinson  Way Ltd isnt protecting  
his personal data securely enough. He wants compensation.
background
Mr S tells us he contacted  RW to discuss an issue in relation to payment of a debt. He says 
during the conversation he was asked  about  one of his previous addresses.  And he says the 
name of the new occupant of that address was disclosed to him. He said hes had concerns 
previously about  the way RW handled  his personal  data and mixing up records. Although Mr 
S says hes suffered no financial  loss this time he says the incident  caused him stress and 
hes worried  RW may not be protecting his personal data in a secure manner. 
RW told us it did not consider there had been  any breach in respect  of the data it held in 
relation to Mr Ss account or his enquiry about  it.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said it was not for 
this service to decide if thered been  a data breach by the disclosure of a third partys name. 
But what  he could say was that Mr Ss data had not been  disclosed during the call.  
Mr S wasnt  happy with this and thought  the stress  hed experienced hadnt been taken into 
account. He wanted an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr S is concerned  at what he sees as a breach of data protection  
legislation. He accepts  he wasnt the victim of the alleged breach - rather the recipient of 
information he doesnt think he should  have  been  given. And its this which has caused  him 
to worry that his own personal data might be at risk.
In the course  of our investigations  into complaints, this service  does  come  across examples 
of breaches of data protection.  But its not the role of an ombudsman  to decide  if a particular 
action by a business does  - or does  not - breach  data protection  laws.
In this case the alleged breach amounts to Mr S being given the name  of a third party who 
apparently now resides at an address  formerly occupied by Mr S. Ive already explained its 
not for me to decide if that does breach protection legislation. And in this case  even if there 
had been a breach - and I dont  think there  has been - it was not Mr S who was the victim. 
Disclosure of a name would not normally amount to a data breach unless it was identifiable 
in a much  wider context.
Whilst Mr S says hes suffered stress - and Im sorry to hear that - I cant reasonably  hold 
RW to be responsible for that. I dont think it did anything wrong in asking the questions it did 
- as a security measure  - when he contacted it. Indeed the purpose of the questions  he was 
asked - in order to prove his identity - was to avoid any breach.
And as hes suffered no financial loss connected  to this complaint it would not be fair and 
reasonable to ask RW to do anything.
Ref: DRN66656722So whilst I know it will disappoint Mr S - Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6665672