K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that AXA Insurance  UK Plc didnt cover her travel insurance  claim and that 
it delayed in telling her its decision.  
My references to AXA include its agents.  
background
Mrs C was on holiday with extended  family  when she fell ill with stomach pains. On the day 
she was taken into hospital her relative  Mrs C2 called  AXA to make  a claim. AXA took some 
information and sent a verification of benefits form to the hospital. This included  a benefit 
limit of up to US$5,000.
Mrs C had some treatment and tests and she was discharged from the hospital the same 
day. On discharge  the hospital  asked  her to pay the balance  of the bill, which  was over 
US$21,000 in total. AXA later told her that she wasnt covered at all. It said her policy gave 
her only European  travel benefits and Mrs C was travelling outside Europe  when she fell ill. 
The hospital  asked Mrs C to pay the full bill and has since  passed  it to a collection company.  
She complained, saying  it should  have told her the claim wasnt  covered  earlier.
AXA rejected Mrs Cs complaint. It said it had explained  at the outset  that it would need to 
make more checks before confirming  cover.  She came to us.
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. She said AXA had explained to Mrs C2 that it 
hadnt confirmed  the insurance cover during the first call. But she said it should have double  
checked the contact email  address,  and if it had its decision would have been explained 
earlier. She didnt  think  the delay had put Mrs C in a worse position or prejudiced her 
because she was having emergency medical  treatment on the day of Mrs C2s call. Our 
adjudicator said AXA should pay Mrs C £150  compensation  for distress  and inconvenience.
AXA agreed to pay the £150  compensation. But Mrs C thought  this was completely 
unacceptable, and she asked for a review.  She said, in summary:
She genuinely thought  she had cover, and says that the only reason for AXAs  delay 
in telling her she wasnt  covered  is that its systems  were down. It should have done 
the checks using  her account  number and sort code, which  Mrs C2 gave it. She 
accepts that she bears  some  responsibility  in not realising her cover was just for 
European travel. But she thinks both AXA and the hospital should  also share some 
responsibility and pay a portion of her bills.
AXA should be responsible at least for the US$5,000 that it included in its verification 
of benefit, without which the hospital wouldnt have gone ahead  with any further  
tests. She says she was highly medicated  and Mrs C2 wasnt present when she 
signed the forms, because she was attending a family celebration  (the reason for the 
trip). Mrs C herself couldnt attend because she was so poorly  on the day she was 
admitted to hospital. 
She was admitted to hospital around 9 to 10am  on the day of the celebration until 
she was discharged around  5 or 6pm the same  day. She thought the verification  of 
benefits form meant she had valid insurance in place. She wouldnt have had the CT 
scan if shed known  she wasnt insured. She said the hospital  had queried whether 
an ovarian cyst might  be cancer, but shed have  arranged to have the scan  done in 
the UK under her private medical insurance if shed known about the cover.
Ref: DRN64694222The hospital has a part to play in that she wasnt told how much  it was all costing. 
She was very shocked when she was discharged. Also,  she paid the excess,  and 
why would the hospital have taken the excess payment  if she wasnt  insured?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about all the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done  so, and 
despite my natural sympathy for Mrs Cs position, I think  the £150 compensation that AXA 
has now offered is a fair and reasonable outcome. Ill explain my reasons.  
Its not in dispute  that Mrs C wasnt covered  under the AXA policy.  This is because  the 
account she held included cover only for European travel,  unless shed purchased a 
worldwide upgrade. Shed not bought the upgrade  so her trip to her destination outside 
Europe wasnt covered  under the policy.
Mrs C says she genuinely didnt  realise she wasnt covered and Ive no reason to doubt  this. 
But I dont think this was AXAs  fault because its very clear in the policy key facts that the 
policy covers only European travel. 
Mrs C2 didnt have  Mrs Cs policy details at the time of the initial call on the day Mrs C had 
been taken to hospital. She didnt know the name  of her account, only that Mrs C had travel 
insurance. So she thought Mrs C must have one of the accounts that AXAs  call handler  
mentioned to her. 
I understand that AXAs system for checking policy against the account  number details  
wasnt working at the time of Mrs C2s call. But I think AXA did make it clear  during the call 
that there  were several pieces of information it would need before it could confirm  cover  
under the policy.  This wasnt just the type of policy,  but also the trip details and dates and 
the medical information including, if necessary, pre-existing medical condition information.  
So I dont  think AXA led Mrs C (via Mrs C2) to believe it had confirmed cover under the 
policy at the time of the call. 
I appreciate Mrs C wasnt well and didnt  read all the small print  on the verification of 
benefit form that AXA sent to the hospital.  The form did include a benefit limit and policy 
excess. But I think AXA did make  it clear to the hospital that it wasnt giving it a guarantee of 
payment. The fact it wasnt guaranteeing payment was set out in a number of places  in the 
form, and so I dont think  AXA misled the hospital  about the insurance cover.  Mrs C says the 
hospital allowed  her to pay just the excess,  and she was surprised by the size of the bill as 
she says it hadnt  warned  her of the increasing costs. I do see her point  but I dont think  I can 
fairly say this was AXAs responsibility where it made it clear to the hospital that it wasnt  
guaranteeing any payment. 
Mrs C has said that if AXA had told her she wasnt covered under the policy  straight away  
then shed not have had a CT scan. Shed  have  waited until she was back  in the UK and 
shed have had it done under her private medical insurance. I do see her point, but for the 
reasons Ive explained I think AXA did say it hadnt  confirmed cover. Also if the scan  wasnt  
medically necessary  to treat an emergency  condition then it wouldnt be covered under  her 
policy anyway. From the information given to AXA when Mrs C2 called it seems that the 
hospital was trying to determine why Mrs C had had stomach pain for several days, which  
Ref: DRN64694223had then caused her to collapse and she says she was very poorly.  Its difficult  for me now to 
say that this medical treatment wasnt necessary. So I dont think  I can fairly find that AXA is 
responsible for Mrs Cs hospital  bills. 
AXA said it would email  Mrs C2 the forms it needed straight away and it did so, but 
unfortunately it didnt  check  the spelling of Mrs Cs name in her email address before 
sending them. So Mrs C2 didnt receive the forms as expected. AXAs  records indicate it did 
try to make phone contact  but wasnt successful, so it did properly try another  method of 
contact. There was a delay in AXA telling Mrs C that the claim wasnt  covered. I think  the 
£150 compensation that our adjudicator recommended is fair and reasonable for this delay. 
Unfortunately Mrs C would always have suffered upset at being told she wasnt covered 
under the policy,  even  if there hadnt been  a delay.  
But I dont think I can fairly find that the delay did prejudice Mrs C for the reasons Ive 
explained. And I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably  require AXA to pay Mrs Cs hospital  
medical expenses,  or contribute to them, where  she wasnt  covered for her trip because  it 
was clearly outside the geographical limit of her policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint but only in part. I require AXA Insurance  
UK Plc to pay Mrs C £150  compensation for distress  and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6469422