K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the problems he experienced with a TSB Bank plc account. He feels  
the bank unfairly  added charges and interest  to his account.
background
Mr S said his problems began a number of years ago. He moved to a new address at 
university and started to use his overdraft facility. Mr S said he had no problems with the 
charges applied for using his overdraft. But he felt the actual days when the charges were 
applied were unusual.  It seemed  to vary from month to month. And it always seemed that 
the charges were taken from his account  when there  wasnt enough money  to cover them.  
Mr S said the problems continued for many years as he wasnt earning enough to pay off the 
balance. He recently moved and visited a branch to arrange a payment plan. He says he 
twice agreed a plan but TSB kept charging  him interest. The bank said it hadnt been set up 
correctly. So Mr S said hed just like TSB to close the account.  Its cost him so much over the 
years. And he wants the bank to remove the negative markers placed on his credit  file.
TSB said Mr S had contacted its customer support unit in September 2017. The bank had 
added a control to his account to stop outgoing  payments  if there wasnt  enough  money in 
the account. And it stopped charging  any return item fees.  But interest charges were still 
applicable while the control was in place. 
TSB said Mr C had perhaps misunderstood the control on his account as a repayment plan. 
But its system  notes showed Mr S hadnt discussed a repayment plan until June 2018. When  
he did, a six-month interest-free plan had been set up to reduce the planned overdraft limit. 
The intention had been to reduce the limit by £60 each month. But Mr S hadnt  made  a 
payment to his account and the plan had been  broken. And TSB said Mr S should contact its 
collections department  to discuss things further.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with TSBs  response.  So he contacted our service  and our adjudicator  
looked into the matter. She said she wasnt able to look at whether Mr Ss charges had been 
unfair or too high. But she could consider if theyd been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. So she looked at Mr Ss statements  for the past six years. And 
she felt TSB had calculated and applied the charges correctly.  
She could  see Mr S had spoken to the bank about  his overdraft situation in September 2017. 
And itd put a control on the account  to stop payments going out if there  wasnt enough 
money. And the bank had suggested  Mr S open a separate account for his bills and 
household expenses to avoid the account going further overdrawn. So she felt TSB had 
responded positively when Mr S got in touch. But it couldnt close  the account while  it 
remained overdrawn. 
Mr S didnt agree. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.  Hes concerned  if he 
contacts TSB again it will make further mistakes. And he just wants to sort things out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN66951932Its clear Mr S has found  this matter very frustrating.  He feels  TSB has misled  him and added 
excessive charges to his account over the years. And its had a negative impact on his 
financial situation. So Ive looked very carefully  at everything Mr S and TSB have said to see 
if the bank has done anything wrong.  And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
As our adjudicator has explained,  a Supreme Court  ruling in 2009  means  charges cant be 
challenged on the basis they are too high or excessive. But I can look at whether TSB has 
applied the charges correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
 
Ive checked the charges applied to Mr Ss account.  These include a monthly charge for 
using his overdraft  facility, interest on the overdraft amount  and an occasional fee when a 
payment had been returned unpaid. TSB also applied a daily overdraft charge when Mr S 
wasnt able to reduce  his balance to the agreed limit.
Ive looked at the terms of the account and TSBs guide to banking charges. And from what  
Ive seen theyve  been applied correctly.  The charges and interest  are line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  So I cant say the bank has made any mistakes.
Mr S feels  the charges  sometimes  worsened his overdraft situation and led to further 
charges. But Ive not seen anything to suggest  they were applied incorrectly.  After he got in 
touch in 2017 TSB placed a control on his account which stopped  payments going  out when 
there wasnt enough money  to cover them. This wouldve helped  reduce the daily charges 
for exceeding the agreed limit. But it wouldnt have  stopped interest from being charged in 
the normal manner.  And TSB says this was explained in a letter  to Mr S.
I appreciate Mr S is sure hed agreed a repayment  plan before TSBs  system notes say one 
was set up in 2018.  But I cant find any evidence to suggest that was the case. TSBs letter  
about the account control does explain how it will work. I realise Mr S says he wasnt 
receiving letters from the bank during that period. But TSB says it was sent to the address it 
had on file. And theres no note of Mr S updating  his address with the bank.
I can see a repayment  plan was agreed in 2018 with the intention of reducing the overdraft 
over a period  of months.  But TSB says Mr S wasnt able to keep up with the plan. And it was 
broken in December  2018.
Its clear Mr S feels  very frustrated by TSBs response. He feels the bank have treated him 
unfairly and made mistakes when hes tried to sort things out. And hes concerned  further 
attempts to repay his balance  will fail again. I can see our adjudicator  has asked TSB to 
explain the terms of the repayment plan clearly. And shes  provided further information to 
Mr S about  the maximum daily charges TSB can apply each month. 
Mr S is also unhappy that the bank is still regularly contacting him. I appreciate Mr S says he 
just wants to close the account. And I realise theres been some confusion  in the past which  
makes him hesitant to get in touch with the bank again.
But the role of this service  is to see if TSB has made  any mistakes. And I cant really  say it 
has. It applied  the charges and interest  in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. 
And the bank reacted positively when  Mr S got in touch about his overdraft by using the 
control to limit his overdraft fees and by suggesting Mr S set up a separate account  for his 
normal expenditure.
Ref: DRN66951933I do sympathise with the situation Mr S finds himself  in. But I cant ask TSB to remove the 
markers from his credit  file. The bank  has a responsibility to accurately report  how the 
account has been managed. And I cant ask TSB to close the account while a balance  is still 
outstanding. So I hope Mr S is able to get in touch with the bank and reach an agreement  to 
repay the outstanding balance.
Based on what Ive seen  I think the bank has dealt with Mr Ss complaint fairly. And I wont 
be asking it to do anything  more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6695193