K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy how Hiscox  Insurance  Company  Limited (Hiscox) administered the renewal 
of his contents insurance policy.
background
Mr Ps contents insurance policy was due for renewal in June 2018.  A couple of weeks  prior 
to the renewal date,  Mr P received  a letter from his bank [who arranged  the policy]  letting 
him know that the product  was changing  and the underwriter would be changing to Hiscox.
The day before the renewal date Mr P called Hiscox.  He wanted to make sure the new 
insurance policy covered  him for the same as the previous  one did, in particular his fixtures 
and fittings in his flat. Hiscoxs adviser  told Mr P that his fixtures  and fittings werent covered 
but they could be added  and a new renewal premium could be given.
Mr P was unhappy about this as he felt this was a significant change  in the cover from the 
previous underwriter. He told Hiscox that his fixtures and fittings had been  covered 
previously and hed made  a successful claim on them during the previous  policy  year. He 
complained to Hiscox  about this.
Hiscox explained to Mr P that his previous  insurance  underwriter  had supplied  the 
information to Hiscox  and had confirmed to it that Mr Ps fixtures and fittings hadnt been 
included in the previous  policy. So Hiscox  said it hadnt done anything wrong when it offered 
Mr P his policy for the coming  year.
Mr P didnt accept this and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator  didnt  
uphold the complaint. She said that Hiscox  had acted correctly on the information given to it 
by Mr Ps previous insurer. It was accepted  that the previous insurer had settled a claim for 
Mr Ps sanitary ware; items that would  be covered  as part of the fixtures and fittings  of his 
flat. But the previous insurer  confirmed the claim had been settled as a commercial decision 
and not because the fixtures  and fittings cover was in place on the policy. As Hiscox had 
offered Mr P his new policy on a like-for-like basis it had acted correctly.
Mr P didnt agree. He provided confirmation  from his previous insurer  that his fixtures  and 
fittings cover  was in place  and that was why the claim had been settled. He said that Hiscox  
and our investigator hadnt  done enough to double check the information provided initially  by 
the previous insurer.
Because Mr P didnt  agree  its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking Hiscox 
to do anything more.  Ill explain  why. 
When Mr Ps bank  decided to change his contents insurance policy to Hiscox,  the previous 
insurer was required to provide all the relevant policy information. This was to help Hiscox 
ensure Mr Ps cover was as close as it could  be to his previous policy. 
Ref: DRN68588392In this case, Hiscox was shown that Mr Ps previous policy didnt include his fixtures and 
fittings. It was also told this over the phone by the previous insurer.  Hiscox had no reason to 
question this information and invited Mr Ps policy on the same  terms. This is what I would 
expect it to do. 
Mr P has shown  our service an email  from his previous insurer  that seems  to confirm  his 
fixtures and fittings cover was in place  on his previous policy.  Whilst I can understand his 
frustration at this, the conflicting information provided to Hiscox  and to Mr P by his previous  
insurer isnt the fault of Hiscox. Mr P might  want  to speak to his previous insurer  about  that, 
but I cant hold Hiscox  responsible for it. Mr Ps new policy with Hiscox was offered to him 
based on the information given to Hiscox at the time.  Im satisfied that Hiscox acted 
reasonably on this information and invited Mr Ps new policy  in good faith. 
Even if I thought that Hiscox had incorrectly excluded Mr Ps fixtures  and fittings cover from 
the new policy, which I dont, Mr P hasnt suffered a loss here.  The fixtures  and fittings cover 
was included from the renewal date once  Hiscox  was aware  it was required so Mr P had the 
cover he wanted.
I wont be asking Hiscox to do anything more  for Mr P.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019..
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6858839