K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited declined  his claim. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision (copy attached below). 
But for context, Ill summarise whats happened. 
Mr P had a group  income  protection  policy with his employer. Unfortunately, in January  
2017, Mr P became  unwell and was unable  to work.  He was suffering with mental health 
related symptoms and insomnia. After hed satisfied the 26 week deferred  period, his 
insurance paid him two months worth  of benefit.  
By July the same year,  his condition had improved and his treating specialist believed he 
was well enough to return to work  as a result. However, Mr P began suffering with shoulder  
pain and vertigo and so he did not make a return to work at that time.  
Aviva did not pay any benefit for the latter conditions as it believed  Mr P no longer met its 
terms. But our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint and said that Aviva should have offered 
him cover for the whole  period he was unable  to work. 
I did not agree with that and so I issued my provisional thoughts  which explained my 
rationale in more detail. I found Avivas terms clear in that Mr P would have  had to be 
actively at work at the time of his latter illnesses. And because  he was not, I did not think  
Aviva should  offer any cover for that period. I invited both parties  to respond to my 
provisional findings. 
Aviva accepted but Mr P raised the following points;
Mr P said he raised the issues he was experiencing with vertigo in July 2017, rather  than 
August and ;
The latter issues he experienced,  the vertigo in particular, occurred after he came off his 
medication.
And so its for me to now make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not be upholding Mr Ps complaint and this is mainly for the reasons already  outlined in 
my provisional decision. Id like to respond  to the additional points Mr P has raised  in 
response. 
According to the GPs medical  records Mr P first sought advice about his disequilibrium,  or 
vertigo, in August 2017. I take on board Mr Ps comments that he thought it was the month 
before, but the evidence Ive seen  suggests  it was August. Im not saying he was not 
suffering with the symptoms in July, only that the evidence Ive suggests he saw his GP 
about it in August. 
Ref: DRN69052492In any event, it makes little difference to my final decision because Im satisfied these were 
not linked  illnesses. And perhaps most importantly, that Mr P was not actively working  at the 
time this happened  which is one of the main reasons I did not uphold  his case. 
my final decision
for the reasons Ive explained in both my provisional  and final decision, I do not uphold  
Mr Ps case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr P is unhappy  with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds  decision to decline his claim.
background
Mr P had a group income protection  policy with Aviva.  In January 2017 he was suffering
from insomnia and mental health related problems  so he was signed off work by his GP for
debility. By August his symptoms appeared to improve, however he was then diagnosed with
disequilibrium and subsequently unable to return to work. He also began to suffer again  with
symptoms of a pre-existing shoulder condition.
Mr P made a claim  under  his policy  with Aviva but it was declined. Mr P said he did not
Ref: DRN69052493understand why Aviva  had declined his claim  as he was medically unfit for work. He is now
back at work,  following a phased return, but he still wants Aviva to pay his claim for the
period he was incapacitated with debility and disequilibrium  which  was around one year in
total.
Aviva paid Mr P two months worth  of benefit and described this payment as a gesture of
goodwill. It initially told Mr P that the reason it declined  his claim for debility because  there
was little medical evidence to help it validate the claim. Aviva also said Mr Ps debility was
caused by work-related problems  and so it was not satisfied he had met the policy terms.
In terms of his latter illnesses, disequilibrium and shoulder pain, it declined  his claim and
said no cover  was in place because  there was no link between these  and the debility which
was the original cause of his absence from work.
Our investigator did not agree with Aviva. He thought cover should  have been confirmed
because Mr P had met the definition of incapacity under the policy terms. He said Mr P was
unfit for work  since January  2017 for almost a year and so he was also satisfied the deferred
period of 26 weeks had met during this time too.
Aviva disagreed and said the term related  to Linked periods of absence  is relevant  in this
case. It maintained its reasons that this was because Mr P suffered from two separate
conditions and that he did not meet the policy terms.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different
outcome to our investigator. I will, of course, consider  any further representations made
within the deadline Ive set for my provisional decision. But Id like to explain my reasons in
more detail  below.
The debility and insomnia
The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say that Aviva  have a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt  reject a claim unreasonably.  Ive mentioned
this because I believe  Aviva  may have unreasonably rejected Mr Ps claim  here. I note its
made a token payment of two months worth of benefit and described this as a gesture  of
goodwill payment. But I think this was something Mr P was perhaps entitled to receive.
In January 2018 an independent medical  examination was completed by a specialist.  The
report explained that although Mr P described a work-related issue had taken place, this was
a relatively minor and temporary problem, owing to a particular task at work. This was not a
more serious issue, like a problem  with the relationship with his employer.
The consultant who completed the report acknowledged  that Mr Ps problems were not
sufficiently medically  supported in the beginning  and this is perhaps why he began to suffer
with insomnia. The Doctors medical records  and the Consultants report show Mr P was
suffering from diagnosed medical conditions  pertaining to poor mental health which he was
prescribed medication,  such  as anti-depressants, to help treat these conditions. And so Im
satisfied he met the definition  of incapacity under the terms which states:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job role
as a result of their illness  or injury
I say this because Mr Ps Doctor diagnosed  him with insomnia and disequilibrium.  And so he
signed Mr P off work with debility in January  2017. The medical records suggest that Mr P
would have likely been well enough to return to work in July 2017 as his symptoms of debility
had improved  enough, owing to the treatment  hed received up until then.
I think  its also worth  mentioning Mr P would have likely needed further support to help him
Ref: DRN69052494back into work, perhaps through a phased return, which  Aviva would  have also needed to
support with. And so I consider the two months benefit it paid to be sufficient and fair in the
circumstances of this complaint because this is roughly the figure he would  have been
entitled to under the policy.
Vertigo and shoulder pain
In August Mr P began to suffer with benign  paroxysmal  positional vertigo  and shoulder
impingement  as described on his medical  certificates. And so he did not return  to work.
Despite being diagnosed with these conditions, I do not agree that Aviva  should offer cover
here. Ill explain why.
Avivas argument is that the problems Mr P suffered from August were not linked to his
original absence  from work in January.  Its quoted the below term;
14 Linked periods of absence
Separate periods of incapacity (from the same cause) may be
linked provided that:
 each  period of incapacity lasts at least 5 consecutive working
days; and
 the deferred period is completed within a period  of time
twice its length (deferred period x 2).
Periods of incapacity which last for less than 5 consecutive
working days cannot be combined for the purposes of
completing the deferred period.
To be clear,  Im satisfied these absences are not linked too. And so this occurrence  should
be considered  separately to the initial claim  for debility.
Thats not to say Mr P was not suffering from genuine  conditions that were medically
defined, its simply that they are not linked  for the purposes of his initial claim. This was
further supported by Mr Ps Doctor, who in February 2018, also noted these  conditions were
not linked.
As this claim  would need to be handled  separately, Aviva highlighted that Mr P would again
need to meet the deferred  period of 26 weeks. Mr Ps Doctor  wrote to Aviva in February  and
said the following:
- point 5: Mr Ps symptoms  of insomnia  slowly improved with various  treatments to
the point in July 2017 his GP was considering him fit to return  to work
- point 6: On 25 August 2017 Mr P presented with symptoms of disequilibrium
- point 7: He experienced  a worsening of his pre-existing right shoulder  impingement
- point 8: both conditions of disequilibrium  and right shoulder impingement were
unrelated to his resolving  condition of insomnia. But the GP did go on to say that if
they had not occurred, Mr P would have been deemed fit to return to work
The linked period of absence  term above  says that the incapacity needs to be from the same
condition to complete the deferred period. As it is clear from the GPs confirmation that
debility and disequilibrium were unrelated, Mr P did not meet the requirements to benefit fully
from the policy.
But perhaps  more importantly, I thought it worth explaining that Mr P would not have
received cover for the latter illnesses because he did not return to work between July and
August. The medical  records suggested  Mr P was no longer suffering with debility from July
and then, at the end of August, he began to experience  symptoms of vertigo and shoulder
pain. Avivas policy says;
1.1 Total  benefit
Ref: DRN69052495We will pay total benefit if immediately before the start of
incapacity the member  was actively at work and following
their job role and, after the start of incapacity  they are not
following any other occupation, and the deferred period
has finished.
The definition  of actively at work states the following:
Actively at work
Means the member must have been actively following their
normal full duties at their place of work and have been
mentally and physically  capable of all the normal duties of their
job role.
The reason Ive highlighted this is because Mr P was not actively at work  between the two
instances he was diagnosed with the separate conditions. And so Aviva would not offer
cover for the other, unrelated conditions, because Mr P was not actively at work when  they
were diagnosed  in August.
my provisional  decision
Based on my findings,  I do not intend to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and so Im recommending
that Aviva take no further action here.
I now invite  Mr P and Aviva  to send any further information or evidence they want me to
consider by 26 August 2019 after which  I intend to issue a final decision.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6905249