K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that PSA Finance UK Limited overcharged him for damage to the leased  car 
he returned.
background
Mr Bs lease  agreement came to an end and the car was inspected  and collected by an 
agent working for PSA. The report  showed a number of areas  of damage and PSA sent Mr B 
a bill for £ £1285.94. This was later reduced to £584.00 after removing charges for carpet 
damage and damage to two alloy wheels and the front doors.
PSA rejected Mr Bs complaint and so he brought  the matter  to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be partially upheld.  He noted 
that the car had been in two accidents and had been repaired at the behest of the insurance  
company. It seems that the repair work wasnt to the standard expected  by PSA and there 
were several areas of paintwork which fell outside  normal wear and tear.
Our investigator explained that what constitutes  fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) guidelines. Having reviewed  the report and 
the photographs taken by the inspector he concluded the charge for damage  to the left front 
wing should be removed  as it didnt clearly show evidence of a poor repair.
However, he considered  the other  charges should  remain. He appreciated  Mr B felt he had 
been punished for the work done  as required by his insurance company, but he said the 
photos showed signs of poor repair work  being carried  out in this instance. He couldnt hold 
PSA responsible for inadequate repairs that have been carried out by a third party.
Mr B accepted the investigators view, but PSA didnt and said the photo showed  dirt in the 
paint in the repair to the left front wing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr B. He trusted the repair  work  carried  out under the insurance 
companys instruction would be done to a satisfactory level. However, it appears  this is not 
the case. He entered into an agreement  that makes him responsible for any damage  beyond 
fair wear and tear and I fear he has to pay for those items which  fall outside  the BVRLA 
guidelines.
The only item under dispute is the paintwork on the left front wing.  PSA says that the 
photograph shows  some  dirt in the paintwork, which presumably came about  due to the 
repair work done when the car had been damaged.
I have studied  the photographs and I cannot  say with any certainty  what  was the cause of 
the apparent marks on the paintwork. I have compared the photo with photos of other  
paintwork on the car which show dirt in the paint and I cannot say that the front left wing is 
similar. Therefore I find myself  in agreement with the investigator.  
Ref: DRN64525452my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct PSA Finance UK Limited to 
reduce its charge to Mr B by £122. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6452545