K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire agreement with Motability  
Operations Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr S under a hire agreement with Motability that he electronically  
signed in August 2018. He contacted Motability  about five days later because  he was 
experiencing issues with the cars  dashboard and sat-nav and he said that he wanted to 
reject the car. Motability arranged for the car to be inspected by a manufacturers  dealer later 
that month.  It couldnt find a fault but upgraded the cars software. 
Motability says that it offered to end the hire agreement  and to refund the advance rental that 
Mr S had paid but he wanted to keep the car. Mr S contacted Motability  again  in early 
September because  he was continuing  to have problems with the dashboard and sat-nav.  It 
arranged for the car to be returned  to the manufacturers dealer but the fault couldnt  be 
found. The car was then booked in for the dashboard to be removed in October 2018 and 
Mr S was provided with a courtesy car. The manufacturers dealer then reported that the 
problem was being caused by a sticky substance inside the dashboard and Motability  says 
that Mr S admitted to spilling  coffee on the dashboard.  
Motability offered  to arrange and pay for the dashboard  to be fixed  or to make a goodwill 
payment of £836.50  and said that it would  accept the car back  at the end of the agreement 
with the damage  to the dashboard. Mr S accepted  the second option and Motability paid him 
£836.50 (in addition to the goodwill payment of £300 that it had made to him before he 
entered into the agreement). Mr S then complained to this service  about the issues  with the 
car in November 2018.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that it was 
most likely that the fault with the dashboard and sat-nav wasnt  present at the point of sale 
and she said that Mr S had accepted Motabilitys  goodwill payment of £836.50. So she didnt 
think that it was liable for the fault and the gesture of goodwill was more than shed ask it to 
do in the circumstances.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that:
he paid the dealer  a deposit for a different car but the dealer sold it to someone else 
and he wouldve expected Motability to do more to help him;
hes asked for the evidence of the sticky substance  but hasnt received it and 
Motability shouldve  done more to get that evidence;
he cant afford to pay for an independent inspection of the car; and
theres a fault with the dashboard and sat-nav  and the dealer should pay for it to be 
repaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN66481182Mr S has complained about some events that happened before  he entered into the hire 
agreement and the car was supplied to him. He ordered a car and paid the dealer a deposit 
for it - but there was an issue in getting  the car from the dealer in a reasonable time so he 
cancelled the order but the dealer said that it wouldnt return his deposit.  That was sorted  out 
with Motabilitys help. Mr S then selected another car but it was sold by the dealer to 
someone else and couldnt be ordered  and the advance rental  for the car that he then 
selected was £700 more.  The dealer contributed £400 of that and Motability  paid him the 
other £300. 
There seem  to have been some  failings by the dealer before Mr S entered  into the hire 
agreement. But I dont consider that Motability  has any liability  under the agreement for 
those events. It paid £300  to Mr S when it wasnt required  to do so. And I wont  be 
considering those events any further  in this decision.
Motability, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr S was a new car 
and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that the car would be free from even 
minor defects. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability  which means that the components 
within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
Mr S complained about an issue with the cars dashboard and sat-nav only a few days  after 
the car was supplied  to him. The car was inspected by the manufacturers dealer but it 
couldnt find a fault (and it updated  the software). Motability says that it offered to end the 
hire agreement and to refund the advance  rental  that Mr S had paid but he wanted  to keep 
the car.
Mr S contacted it again in early September because he was continuing to have problems 
with the dashboard and sat-nav.  It arranged for the car to be returned to the manufacturers  
dealer but the fault couldnt be found.  The car was then booked  in for the dashboard to be 
removed in October 2018 and Mr S was provided  with a courtesy car. The manufacturers 
dealer then reported that the problem was being  caused  by a sticky substance inside the 
dashboard and Motability says that Mr S admitted to spilling coffee  on the dashboard.  
Although more detailed evidence about the sticky substance  hasnt been  provided, there  
doesnt seem to be any doubt that Mr S admitted to spilling coffee on the dashboard and I 
consider it to be clear  from the manufacturers dealers comments  that the sticky substance 
wasnt something that it would normally expect to find under a cars dashboard. So I 
consider it to be more  likely than not that the issues with the dashboard and sat-nav have 
been caused because Mr S spilled coffee on the dashboard. 
But even though the manufacturers dealer said that the issues  were caused by a sticky 
substance and Mr S had admitted to spilling  coffee  on the dashboard, Motability offered to 
arrange and pay for the dashboard to be fixed or to make a goodwill payment of £836.50  
and said that it would  accept the car back at the end of the agreement  with the damage to 
the dashboard. Mr S accepted the second option  and Motability paid him £836.50 (in 
addition to the goodwill payment of £300  that it had made to him before he entered into the 
agreement). 
Ref: DRN66481183I dont consider that Motability was liable  for the damage to the dashboard in these 
circumstances. So I consider that the payment of £836.50 that it made to Mr S was generous 
 and its more  than I wouldve required it to do. Im not persuaded that theres enough  
evidence to show that Motability  has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr S. So I find that 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay for the car to be repaired,  to pay 
any further compensation to Mr S or to take any other action in response to his complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6648118