K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make from his 
account and that it is holding  him responsible for the related borrowing.
background
The disputed payments made were to online betting  companies, which  I have anonymised 
as companies 1 to 3 below. Lloyds credited Mr Cs account in October 2016 with the 
amounts he disputed while it investigated  what happened. Lloyds then decided  to take the 
money back from November 2016  onwards. This accounted for the majority of an overdrawn 
balance of over £4,200  on Mr Cs account. The account was closed and the outstanding 
balance sent to recoveries in April 2017.  
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-Lloyds had made chargebacks and said it had received  responses  from the online 
gambling companies at the time.  The companies  had confirmed they held Mr Cs full 
details. So the chargebacks had been successfully defended. 
-However, due to the passage of time, Lloyds said it no longer had access  to all the 
information it had received  in response to the chargebacks.  
-Although Mr C had said he never  had any online  gambling  accounts this was 
inconsistent with what Lloyds had noted  hed told it. Our investigator highlighted that 
on 10 October 2016, Mr C had said he had an account with one company  and 
payments to this company (company 1) were genuine. On 11 October 2016, he said 
that he had an account with company 2 until January  2016  - but then thought that 
this had been closed. On 18 October 2016, he had said that he only ever used 
company 1 and company 3. And on 31 October 2016 he had said that he hadnt had 
dealings with any betting company and had never gambled in his life.
-He noted that there was also a file note from Lloyds dated  June 2014 stating that    
Mr C had said he had a gambling problem with a different  company and requested  
that his account  be frozen.
-There were  both debits and some credits  into the account  from the gambling  
companies. Our investigator  couldnt see why a fraudster would have allowed these 
credits to be paid into Mr Cs bank account.  . 
-He thought that the extended period  over which these payments had been made 
wasnt the likely behaviour of a fraudster.
-He said that due to the passage of time there  was now limited  information.  But on 
balance, he considered that these  payments had been authorised by Mr C. 
-He noted Lloyds had paid Mr C £75 for the poor service it had provided when 
handling his complaint. 
Mr C didnt accept these  conclusions. He said he wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He 
denied telling Lloyds  he had a gambling problem in 2014. He said he knew nothing about the 
payments or the winnings and this wasnt his main bank account.  He said that the fact was 
that he has never had an online gambling account.  He accepted  he should have paid closer 
attention to the entries on his account.  But he hadnt noticed what was happening. He didnt 
accept he was responsible for the borrowing on the account that had arisen.
As Mr C didnt  agree the case was passed  to an ombudsman to review.
Ref: DRN63732772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether Mr C authorised these payments. The relevant regulations  here are 
the Payment Services  Regulations 2009. These  explain that a payment out of someones 
account can only be authorised if the payer  consented to it. And its not enough for the bank 
simply to rely on the fact that the card and security  details were used.
payment authentication and chargeback
There are two parts when  considering this. The first is whether the payments were 
authenticated. And its not been in dispute that a number of payments were  made  from      
Mr Cs account with the required security information. This allowed payments to be made to 
the online gambling companies.  And so I think these  payments were authenticated.
Lloyds did contact the gambling  companies  at the time and made  chargebacks. Lloyds says 
Mr C had an opportunity at that time to provide  any more evidence  to support the 
chargebacks. The chargebacks were defended. 
But thats not the definitive word on whether or not they were authorised. A chargeback  is 
considered under a set of specific  rules  that determine certain  disputes.  This particular 
process has now been exhausted. But the nature of Mr Cs dispute here means that it can 
be considered  more widely and in the context of the Payment Services  Regulations 2009. 
So I need to think  about how the payments  were  made and whether Mr C consented to them 
or not. Mr C says he hasnt given  his card to anyone  else or shared his details. And he says 
he lost one of his cards while he was abroad.  He doesnt have an explanation of how his 
details were discovered by an unknown third party. But thats the only alternative explanation  
Ive got to consider here. 
the pattern  of payments
Ive looked at Mr Cs bank statements in 2016. And at Lloyds case  notes about the 
payments he disputes on his account. I note that Mr C had a number of cards on his account 
in 2016. I have seen evidence that shows that payments to company 1 were made with bank 
cards ending in two digits 39, 47 and 18. And payments to company 2 were made with 
cards ending in two digits 13, 21, and 39.
The payments Mr C disputes here had taken place over the period from January 2016 
onwards. They related  to times  that Mr C says he was in and out of the country. When  he 
was away, I can see there  were still credits into his account and that the balance was 
managed within the agreed overdraft limit. That suggests that some  attention  was being paid 
to the balance on the account at that time.
I note that Mr C first disputed payments using card 21 that didnt relate to gambling and 
which were made abroad. His first claim after he returned to the country was in August 2016. 
It appears his card ending  21 was then cancelled and card 39 issued. Lloyds notes show  
that he was asked in September 2016  whether there  were  any more  payments he didnt 
recognise. It was noted that Mr C said hed checked his statement and there werent. Mr C 
didnt start to report the gambling payments as ones  that he disputed  until October 2016. 
Ref: DRN63732773The things hes said to explain this are that he didnt  check his account very closely and that 
it wasnt his main account. 
I set out above  in the background section what Mr C is reported  to have said about  whether 
hed gambled  before or had any online accounts. And whether he recognised any of the 
payments. I think it unlikely that the comments reflected in those notes would have  all been 
recorded incorrectly by Lloyds and on this number  of occasions. Especially given that he 
was reporting  payments  he later disputed. 
my assessment
To find that an unknown  third party acting without Mr Cs authority made  the disputed  
payments Id need to think all of the following was most  likely:
-An unknown third party was systematically able to access his personal security  
information and set up online accounts.  And to find out and discover  the details of his 
replacement cards quickly.  
-This person went to the trouble to do this and risked detection over a period of time 
out of a desire to gamble, and as our investigator said allowed some winnings to be 
paid back to Mr Cs account.  
-The third party over a period  of months  somehow  anticipated the available balance  in 
the account and when  periodic  credits had been made
- Mr Cs account of what happened is a credible one.  
Im afraid I dont consider the above  most likely  based on the available evidence Ive seen.  
Mr C hasnt given a consistent account.  He has appeared to accept  some  of the payments 
as genuine. And that he had set up at least one online account. But he has then said hes 
never had any association with any of the gambling companies. Faced with what  are quite 
significant inconsistencies, it makes it rather difficult for me to place any reliance  on Mr Cs 
evidence. So my conclusion in the circumstances  has to be that I find he authorised these 
payments.
Lloyds reversed any refunds it had made during the chargebacks. But by this point, Mr C 
had already withdrawn  the amount that had been  credited to his account.  This resulted in the 
overdrawn balance. I know Mr C has said he isnt going to repay this. But Im satisfied  he is 
responsible for the payments that led to the overdraft and therefore it would be unreasonable 
for me to conclude  that Lloyds  cant recover it. 
Lloyds has investigated  all the claims Mr C has made. Overall, having looked  at the available 
evidence, I dont have  a reasonable basis to require it to refund any payments or to do 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN63732774my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6373277