K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains about the charges  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  (MBFS)  
is requiring him to pay, following the end of his car finance agreement.
background
Mr A says the parcel  shelf  was present when he returned his car to the dealership on         
10 November 2017 at the end of his finance  agreement. He says MBFS later told him it was 
missing when it inspected  the car, following its collection  on 8 January 2018. And he says 
MBFS is requiring him to pay £642.50 for a replacement parcel shelf.  
MBFS says the dealership hasnt been able to confirm whether  the parcel shelf was present 
when Mr A returned car, or not. And it says as Mr A hasnt given it any evidence to prove the 
parcel shelf was present  when he left the car with the dealership, he would still be liable for 
replacing it. 
MBFS also says it appreciates Mr A left the car at the dealership  when he collected his new 
car and there was a delay in MBFS collecting the car. But it says as this return wasnt  part of 
its Dealer Return Programme, Mr A was responsible for the car until it was returned to the 
MBFS De-Fleet centre.
Our investigator thought Mr As complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said without evidence  to 
suggest the parcel shelf was present when the car was handed back,  she couldnt require 
MBFS to remove  the charge for it being missing.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  He said when he returned  the car to the 
dealership, it was inspected by an agent  on behalf  of MBFS before completing the handover  
and any defects were noted. He said there was no note of the parcel shelf  being missing. He 
said it wouldve been visible without even  opening the boot. And he said by inspecting and 
accepting the car without  comment, the dealership  on behalf of MBFS confirmed it was in 
satisfactory condition.
Mr A also said MBFS was negligent in not collecting the car from the dealership  for two 
months after he returned it.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
I recently issued my provisional  findings on this complaint. I said I acknowledge MBFS says 
the parcel shelf was found to be missing from Mr As car when it was inspected following  
collection of the car on 8 January 2018.  And its told us Mr A remained responsible for the 
car during the period of almost two months between him returning  it to the dealership  and 
MBFS collecting it.
But I could see Mr As told us clearly and consistently that the parcel  shelf  was present when 
he returned the car to the dealership on 10 November 2017.  Hes told us it is a substantial 
component and hes given us a photo that he says demonstrates that the presence or 
absence of the parcel shelf  would be apparent without  even opening  the car boot.  
I could also see the absence of the parcel shelf wasnt noted during the handover inspection 
at the dealership. And, taking everything  Id seen into account,  I was minded to conclude  its 
more likely than not that the parcel  shelf was present when Mr A returned the car to the 
dealership on 10 November 2017.
Ref: DRN66281262I acknowledged MBFS says Mr A remained responsible for the car until it was collected and 
returned to its De-Fleet  centre on 8 January  2018. But Id seen correspondence about the 
return process that I thought wouldve reasonably led Mr A to expect that his responsibility 
ended once the car was returned to the authorised dealership. And I noted he ceased to be 
the registered keeper some time before the car was collected by MBFS. So, I was minded  to 
conclude it wouldnt be reasonable to hold Mr A responsible for the car during the time it 
remained at the authorised dealership  awaiting collection by MBFS.
So, for these reasons,  I was minded to uphold Mr As complaint and require MBFS to waive  
the charge for the replacement parcel shelf.
This was different  from the investigators  opinion. So, I invited  both parties to comment and 
provide any additional evidence for me to consider. A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision MBFS said it was disappointed with my findings.  It 
said it appreciates Mr A may have advised  on several  occasions  that the parcel shelf was 
present. However,  it said this doesnt mean the information is accurate. But it said it had 
made a commercial decision and would make  the necessary  arrangements to have the 
charge removed.
Ive noted MBFS comments,  but it remains my view that, taking everything Ive seen into 
account its more  likely  than not that the parcel  shelf was present  when  Mr A returned  the car 
to the dealership on 10 November 2017. So, I uphold his complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint  against Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited.  It must 
waive the charge  for a replacement parcel shelf.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr A complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS) is 
requiring him to pay, following the end of his car finance  agreement.
Ref: DRN66281263background
Mr A says the parcel shelf was present when he returned  his car to the dealership on         10 
November 2017 at the end of his finance agreement. He says MBFS  later told him it was missing 
when it inspected  the car, following its collection on 8 January 2018. And he says MBFS is requiring 
him to pay £642.50 for a replacement  parcel  shelf. 
MBFS says the dealership hasnt been able to confirm  whether the parcel shelf was present when Mr 
A returned car, or not. And it says as Mr A hasnt given it any evidence to prove the parcel shelf was 
present when  he left the car with the dealership, he would  still be liable for replacing  it. 
MBFS also says it appreciates Mr A left the car at the dealership when he collected  his new car and 
there was a delay in MBFS collecting the car. But it says as this return wasnt part of its Dealer Return 
Programme, Mr A was responsible for the car until it was returned to the MBFS  De-Fleet centre.
Our investigator thought Mr As complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said without evidence  to suggest 
the parcel shelf was present when  the car was handed back, she couldnt require MBFS  to remove 
the charge for it being  missing.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. He said when he returned the car to the 
dealership, it was inspected by an agent on behalf of MBFS before completing  the handover and any 
defects were noted. He said there was no note of the parcel shelf  being  missing.  He said it wouldve 
been visible without even opening the boot. And he said by inspecting and accepting the car without 
comment, the dealership  on behalf of MBFS confirmed it was in satisfactory  condition.
Mr A also said MBFS was negligent in not collecting the car from the dealership  for two months after 
he returned it.
So, the matters been referred  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mr As complaint and to require MBFS  to waive the charge for the 
missing parcel shelf.  Ill explain why.
I acknowledge MBFS says the parcel  shelf was found to be missing  from Mr As car when it was 
inspected following  collection of the car on 8 January 2018. And its told us Mr A remained  
responsible for the car during the period  of almost  two months between him returning it to the 
dealership and MBFS collecting it.
But I see Mr As told us clearly and consistently that the parcel shelf was present  when he returned 
the car to the dealership on 10 November  2017. Hes told us it is a substantial  component and hes 
given us a photo that he says demonstrates that the presence or absence of the parcel  shelf would be 
apparent without even opening the car boot.   
I also see the absence of the parcel  shelf wasnt  noted during the handover inspection  at the 
dealership. And, taking  everything Ive seen into account,  Im minded to conclude its more likely  than 
not that the parcel shelf was present when Mr A returned the car to the dealership on 10 November  
2017.
I acknowledge MBFS says Mr A remained responsible for the car until it was collected  and returned to 
its De-Fleet centre on 8 January 2018. But Ive seen  correspondence about  the return process that I 
think wouldve  reasonably led Mr A to expect that his responsibility ended once  the car was returned 
to the authorised dealership.  And I note he ceased to be the registered  keeper  some time before the 
Ref: DRN66281264car was collected by MBFS. So, Im minded  to conclude it wouldnt be reasonable to hold Mr A 
responsible for the car during the time it remained at the authorised dealership awaiting collection  by 
MBFS.
So, for these  reasons, Im going to uphold  Mr As complaint and require MBFS to waive the charge for 
the replacement parcel shelf.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above but subject to both parties  responses to this provisional decision Im 
going to uphold Mr As complaint against Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited and require 
MBFS to waive the charge  for the replacement parcel  shelf.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6628126