K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the delay in Covea Insurance plc settling his contents insurance claim.  
background
In 2014, Mr B made a claim. Covea avoided Mr Bs policy  from the start as it thought  hed 
given it inaccurate information  when taking  out the policy. 
After Mr B brought a complaint to this service,  Covea agreed to reinstate the policy and 
consider the claim. It later decided  to close the claim without settling it. 
Mr B complained to Covea that it hadnt  settled the claim.  Covea issued a final response 
letter on 14 July 2017 and said the claim hadnt  been settled as Mr B had refused to take 
part in an interview. It gave him a further  chance  to agree to an interview.  
The interview took place in February 2018. Covea then accepted the claim.  Mr B later asked 
Covea to increase  the settlement by £1,250, to reflect the increase in value of a luxury watch 
since his claim  had been made. Covea paid this in August 2018  as a gesture of goodwill to 
reflect the delays  that it had caused by avoiding the policy. 
Mr B remained unhappy  and wanted interest  paid on the claim settlement, plus 
compensation. This was to recognise the delays in Covea settling his claim since  2014. He 
brought a complaint to this service in August 2018  on that basis. Covea hadnt  issued  a final 
response letter at that point,  but it then issued two final response letters  one in September 
2018 and the other  in November 2018, and said no further payment would be made. 
My ombudsman colleague found  that because Mr B didnt bring a complaint to this service 
within six months of the date of Coveas final response letter of 14 July 2017, we only have 
jurisdiction to consider  Mr Bs concerns about  delays after this date. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  on that basis,  however she didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. She didnt think that Covea  had caused unnecessary  delays, as the 
claim couldnt proceed until the interview  had taken  place.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators  findings, so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive noted Mr Bs request for me to contact him before  reaching  my decision.  He says I may 
need to ask him questions or request further  evidence from him. However, Im satisfied Ive 
fully understood  his complaint from the information on the file. Im also satisfied that Mr B 
has had sufficient time to send this service any relevant information he wants  us to consider. 
Mr B disagrees with my ombudsman colleagues findings in respect of our jurisdiction. He 
thinks this service should be able to consider the delays from the date his claim was first 
made, rather than from 14 July 2017.
Ref: DRN63934632My ombudsman colleague explained that Covea had issued a final response letter on 14 
July 2017. This was in response to Mr Bs concerns that it had delayed settling his claim.  For 
this service to be able to consider Mr Bs concerns  about Coveas delay in settling his claim  
prior to 14 July 2017, he would have needed to bring a complaint to this service within six 
months of the date of Coveas final response  letter (in other words, by 14 January 2018). 
However, Mr B didnt bring his complaint to us until August 2018. My ombudsman colleague 
therefore concluded that this service couldnt consider any part of Mr Bs complaint relating 
to delays by Covea before 14 July 2017.
Mr B says that he did contact this service before August 2018 to tell us about his concerns 
relating to Covea  delaying  accepting  the claim. 
Ive checked Mr Bs previous cases with us, and I see that he copied  us into correspondence 
he sent to Covea in June  2017 where he raised his complaint.  I also see that after Covea 
had issued its final response letter on 14 July 2017,  Mr B contacted  us a few days later to 
make us aware that Covea had responded to him and asked us if we wanted to see the 
letter. He asked us about our timescales  in this correspondence.
We responded to Mr B on 18 July 2017 and said that as he didnt have an open complaint, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for us to comment on his recent correspondence  with Covea. We 
advised Mr B that if Covea had issued a final response letter  giving him referral  rights to this 
service and he was unhappy with the content  of that letter, then he could request for a new 
complaint to be set up. We reminded Mr B of our timescales, including that we wouldnt be 
able to consider  a complaint if it was brought to us more than six months  after the date of a 
final response. 
We didnt hear from Mr B again  until August 2018.  Mr B thinks  he contacted us before this, 
however weve  checked  our records and havent been able to find any correspondence  from 
him. I understand Mr B would like more time to try and find this correspondence  himself, but 
Im satisfied hes had sufficient time to do so. 
I therefore accept  that Mr B did tell us about his concerns that Covea had delayed  settling  
the claim,  but this was before hed made the complaint to Covea. Although he contacted us 
shortly after hed received  Coveas response,  he didnt  ask us to set up a new complaint  at 
this time. I therefore agree with my ombudsman colleagues findings  that Mr B didnt bring a 
complaint to this service  within  six months  of the date of Coveas final response of 14 July 
2017, and so we cant consider any part of his complaint  relating to delays in Covea dealing 
with his claim prior to this date.
Ive therefore  considered  whether Covea  caused  any unnecessary delays  in dealing with Mr 
Bs claim  after 14 July 2017. 
Covea explained  to Mr B in its final response of 14 July 2017 that it hadnt settled the claim 
because hed failed  to comply with its request that he attend an interview.
Mr B then agreed to take part in the interview.  However, the parties couldnt agree on a 
suitable date and so the interview didnt take place until February 2018. The claim was 
accepted in March 2018, and the claim  payment  made in early  April 2018.
Whilst its unfortunate that the parties couldnt  meet until February 2018, I dont think  Covea 
caused any unnecessary delays in arranging the interview. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN63934633Covea had asked  Mr B to contact it before  15 August  2017  to arrange the meeting. I see that 
Mr B contacted Covea  on 14 August 2017  and said he would be out of the country between 
30 August 2017  and 6 September 2017. He said that once he was back, hed confirm a 
convenient date and time. Covea responded to question why Mr B couldnt meet  before 30 
August 2017.  However, it said it would give him until 11 September  2017 to provide a date 
for the meeting to take place.  
Mr B then contacted Covea on 11 September 2017 and said he would be available for a 
meeting the following day. Covea couldnt make  that meeting at such short  notice, and found 
out that the intended interviewer was out of the country at that time. Another member  of staff 
from Covea offered to meet with Mr B instead,  and suggested several possible dates. 
Unfortunately, Mr B couldnt  attend any of those  dates.  
On 4 December  2017, Mr B asked Covea to confirm  available dates for the start of January 
2018. Covea responded and gave Mr B four possible  dates. Mr B didnt respond,  and so 
Covea sent Mr B four further  possible  dates  in January 2018. Mr B responded and said 
Coveas dates were  inconvenient  and he would be available  in late February 2018. The 
meeting then went ahead in February 2018.
Taking the above into account, I think its apparent that Covea was keen  to arrange the 
interview, and Im satisfied it gave  Mr B sufficient opportunity  to arrange this. I therefore  dont 
find that Covea  caused any unnecessary delays after 14 July 2017.
Consequently, I dont require Covea to pay interest  to reflect  that the claim wasnt paid until 
April 2018, or any additional compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6393463