K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc T/A Halifax  charged her an early closure penalty 
when she transferred her ISA account  to another  bank.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional
decision dated 10 April 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision.
Halifax has confirmed that it accepts my provisional  decision and has no further  comments 
to make.
Mrs B has responded by saying she isnt happy  with my provisional decision. But she hasnt 
provided any further information or comments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Halifax nor Mrs B have asked  me to consider any more evidence  or arguments I 
see no reason to depart from the view I set out in my provisional decision. And so I adopt  the 
reasoning set out in my provisional decision as my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold Mrs Bs complaint and do not ask Bank  of Scotland plc T/A Halifax  to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Copy  provision decision of 10 April 2019
complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc T/A Halifax charged her an early  closure  penalty when she 
transferred her ISA account  to another bank.
Ref: DRN68292372background
Mrs B opened  a two year fixed rate ISA with Halifax on 17 May 2016. The terms and conditions  of this 
ISA stated that if Mrs B withdrew funds from her ISA before it matured on 16 May 2018 she would be 
charged an early  closure penalty. 
Mrs B held another ISA product with Halifax, which  was a variable ISA that she was able to transfer 
without incurring penalties. This ISA isnt the subject of this complaint.
Mrs B decided to transfer her fixed rate ISA to a different bank, Ill call F, who was able to offer her a 
more favourable rate of return on her savings. So, she contacted Halifax in February 2018 to query 
how she could transfer her ISA to another provider. She said that during this conversation she was 
told it didnt matter whether  she completed the transfer application to request an immediate transfer or 
one when the ISA had matured.
On 30 April 2018 Mrs B received a letter  from Halifax, which told her that her ISA would mature on 16 
May 2018. It said if she wanted to move  her money into an ISA with another  provider she should  
arrange to transfer her money after her account matured to avoid early closure  charges.
On 11 May 2018 Halifax said it received an ISA transfer request  from F, which it processed the same 
day. On 15 May 2018 Halifax deducted a withdrawal charge from Mrs Bs ISA account. And the funds 
in Mrs Bs ISA left her account the same day.
Mrs Bs ISA funds credited her account with F on 17 May 2018  the day after her ISA with Halifax  
matured. But she noticed  Halifax had charged an early withdrawal fee. So she complained to Halifax 
and said she thought it shouldve  known  not to transfer  the funds from her ISA until the maturity date. 
And she wanted it to refund the penalty it had charged her, which she felt was unfair.
After Halifax  investigated what had happened  it didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. It said the ISA 
transfer had been arranged through its automatic  process. And it didnt think it had done anything  
wrong because it had followed the instructions it had received from F to transfer Mrs Bs ISA. So, it 
declined to refund the early  penalty charge it had applied.
Being dissatisfied with Halifaxs response Mrs B brought her complaint to our service where our 
adjudicator upheld it. They thought Halifax  hadnt  acted  fairly here. And they recommended that it 
refund the penalty it had applied. Halifax  disagreed  with our adjudicators view. So it asked for this 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im departing  from what our adjudicator has said. Ill 
explain why.
Mrs B feels the early  closure penalty that Halifax  has deducted from her ISA funds is unfair  and 
unreasonable. She wants it to be refunded as a resolution  to her complaint. In considering  whether 
Halifax has acted fairly here Ive reviewed the terms and conditions that apply  to Mrs Bs ISA. Mrs B 
would have had to accept  the terms and conditions  to proceed with her application before  opening an 
ISA account. 
Im satisfied that those terms clearly and unambiguously  explain that if a customer  transfers money to 
another ISA during the fixed rate period  they will lose an amount of interest.  The terms explain that 
the amount will be deducted from the balance on the account  during the closure process. And they 
specify that where the ISA is a two year product the amount of interest that will be lost is 180 days. 
This was the amount Halifax deducted.
The terms  also state:
Ref: DRN68292373There is loss of interest for early closure  of some  of our cash  ISAs, and this will apply if you transfer 
your account  to another provider. You should  tell your new ISA provider whether  you want  to transfer 
straight away, or wait for your existing ISA to mature so that the funds  can be transferred without 
charge.'
So, I think Halifax explained at the outset how Mrs B would need to operate  her account  if she wanted 
to avoid  paying a penalty on transferring her funds to another provider. And I also think it would have 
been clear  to Mrs B that if she transferred her ISA before it matured she would forfeit  some interest 
and incur a penalty.
Ive thought about the information Halifax gave  Mrs B when  she requested guidance during her 
telephone call of 26 February 2018. And, having listened to the call in question, Im persuaded  Halifax 
gave clear information that, while she could  transfer her variable ISA immediately, she couldnt  
transfer her fixed rate ISA until it matured. And Im satisfied  that Mrs B understood this information 
because after hearing this guidance she stated that she would  keep her money in her fixed  rate ISA 
until the maturity date and then decide  what to do with the funds.
Mrs B told our service  that Halifax gave her guidance, during this telephone discussion, on how to 
complete forms  regarding the ISA transfer.  And I note that Halifax told Mrs B she would need to 
contact F who could complete the ISA transfer on her behalf.  But Mrs B said Halifax also told her it 
didnt matter  whether she specified that the transfer should take place immediately or on maturity. 
This cant be heard  on the call recording  Halifax has provided. So, Im not persuaded that this 
guidance was given to Mrs B during this call. 
Ive seen Halifaxs form that gives customers four options as to what  they can do with their savings. It 
tells customers  to complete  and return the form so its received . at least  five working days before 
the account maturity date of 16 May 2018.  But I can also see this form instructs  customers  not to use 
the form for ISA transfers. Instead  it tells customers to contact their new ISA provider.  So, I dont think 
this form applies to this transaction. 
 
Ive looked at the letter  Halifax sent Mrs B on 30 April 2018. Our adjudicator  thought  the content of 
this letter was ambiguous and that it suggested Mrs B had to act immediately.  But I dont agree. I say 
this because this letter specifies the date the ISA will mature.  And it also tells Mrs B that if she wanted 
to move her money into an ISA with another provider  she should  arrange to transfer her money  after 
her account  matured to avoid early closure charges. So, I think  it clearly explained to Mrs B what  she 
needed to do if she didnt want to incur a penalty.
F has provided us with the ISA Transfer Authority form that Mrs B completed. I can see that it is 
signed by Mrs B and dated 3 May 2018. And I note that Mrs B has instructed F to proceed 
immediately with the transfer bearing any consequential  penalty which  may be applied. So, Im 
satisfied that Mrs B chose to transfer her ISA to F immediately and that she ought to have known that 
an immediate transfer would be likely to incur an early withdrawal  fee. I think it was her responsibility 
to ensure this form was completed correctly.
Halifax confirmed that when it received this transfer authority from F it transferred Mrs Bs ISA funds 
immediately in line with what was endorsed on the form. It hadnt been  told to wait until the account  
matured. So it wouldnt  be fair for me to criticise it for promptly  processing  the request it received.  
Halifax has explained that the transfer process is automated.  As  such there was no manual 
intervention by Halifax. So, it wouldnt  be able to review  whether Mrs B had made the correct decision 
or intervene in Mrs Bs instruction for it to transfer her money to F. As part of this process  Halifax 
wouldnt check the ISA maturity date. All it would do is action Mrs Bs transfer request  in accordance 
with the instructions it received from F. 
Mrs B has questioned why Halifax didnt know  that she wouldnt have wanted to transfer the money  
before her ISA matured. She feels it shouldve known  this based on the conversation  she had with it 
Ref: DRN68292374in February 2018. But as Ive explained  above there was no opportunity for Halifax  to scrutinise the 
transfer request  it received  from F. So, I cant fairly say Halifax did anything wrong when it transferred 
Mrs Bs funds. 
While Halifax was, of course,  aware in February that Mrs B intended to wait until her ISA had matured 
before transferring her funds to another provider  this conversation took place almost three months 
before Halifax  received the transfer request from F. So, I dont think  its fair to expect Halifax to think  
that what Mrs B had said in February superseded a request it received much later. And I dont think 
this created an obligation on Halifax to check with Mrs B whether she wanted the transfer to take 
place immediately or on maturity.
On 14 May 2018 Mrs B received an SMS from Halifax telling her that it had received her ISA transfer 
request from F and had begun the transfer process. As this was two days  before the ISA was due to 
mature I think Mrs B could have telephoned  Halifax  to query whether  this would  incur  a penalty if she 
was unsure.
I appreciate that Mrs Bs funds werent  received  by F until the day after her ISA with Halifax had 
matured. But the transfer process  was finalised, and the money  left Mrs Bs Halifax  account, before 
the account maturity date. So, Im not persuaded it was unfair  for Halifax to apply an early  withdrawal 
fee.
So, while I appreciate this wont  be the answer  Mrs B is hoping for, I dont think  Halifax made  an error  
in transferring the ISA funds  to F on receipt of the transfer request. And it follows  that I think Halifax  
was entitled to apply the early withdrawal charge it did.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add  before considering my decision 
on this complaint once more and issuing my final decision.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6829237