K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited withdrew travel insurance cover two weeks 
after it had first agreed to cover his claim. 
My references to Aviva include its agents. 
background
Mr B had an accident abroad, and suffered a traumatic  injury to his lower leg. He called 
Aviva two days after the injury, having already travelled to a neighbouring country  with better  
medical facilities. 
Aviva agreed to cover his claim.  Mr B had two surgeries  the first to cover the exposed  
bone and close  the wound,  and the second  for skin grafting. But a few days  after the second  
surgery Aviva said Mr B wasnt  covered  under the policy at all. It said his policy  covered him 
for trips of no more than 31 days and hed been  travelling for 45 days when hed had his 
accident. It agreed to pay for his treatment to the point it told him he wasnt  covered  (a cost 
of around £3,000). 
Mr B was very upset  about the withdrawal of cover. He remained abroad,  and a relative 
helped him with some of the remaining medical costs.  But he said he couldnt afford all the 
necessary treatment. He complained to Aviva. 
Aviva accepted it should have identified that he wasnt  covered earlier, but said it had fairly 
paid the costs to the point it withdrew  cover. He came to us, saying hed have returned  to the 
UK straight  away if Aviva told him he wasnt covered at the outset. 
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. She thought it likely Mr B would have 
remained abroad even  if Aviva had made it clear he wasnt  covered  at the outset.  So his 
position hadnt been made worse or prejudiced by Avivas delay in confirming he wasnt  
covered. As Mr B didnt agree the complaints  come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive been very sorry to read about Mr Bs accident abroad and about  all that followed.  But 
despite my natural sympathy I dont  uphold this complaint. I will explain why. In doing so 
I will focus on the issues that I think are central  to this dispute.  
the policy cover
In January 2018 Mr B left the UK to travel abroad. On 1 March 2018, while still travelling 
abroad, he took out Avivas annual  multi-trip travel insurance online, with the policy starting  
that day. On 6 March 2018 he called Aviva to tell it hed had an accident two days  previously 
and to find out what to do next.  
Ive looked at the online process Mr B would  have had to follow before buying the travel 
insurance online. Before he could proceed with a quote for the insurance Mr B had to agree 
with a short list of seven assumptions, which included that he was not travelling already.
Ref: DRN64254342Mr B was travelling already when he bought the policy. Hes told us that hed not bought  
travel insurance before  and simply hadnt realised  that most  travel insurers require insurance  
to be purchased before travelling. I do see his point but I think Aviva made it very clear  on its 
website that its policy  wasnt  suitable for Mr B, because he was already travelling. So he 
wasnt ever covered by the travel insurance  policy. 
I appreciate Aviva initially said Mr B was outside  the 31 day trip limit. It said this as he 
started travelling in January 2018  and had the accident in March  2018. Mr B says he bought  
the policy just before his accident  in March 2018.  So he was within  the 31 day trip limit. But 
the fact Aviva initially gave the wrong  reason for withdrawing cover doesnt change  the 
position that the policy could never  have covered him, because he took it out several weeks  
after hed started travelling.  
Mr B goes on to make  the argument that Aviva should never have been entitled to withdraw  
cover so late in the process, following his two surgeries. 
Avivas decision to withdraw cover
Ive thought about Mr Bs comments that Aviva  had essentially created a contractual  
arrangement by confirming cover. But the guarantee of payment was subject to the policy 
terms, and I dont think I can fairly say that Aviva should have continued  to cover Mr Bs 
treatment despite  his not being eligible for the policy in the first place. 
It was correct and fair for Aviva to pay for the private medical treatment  Mr B had received to 
the point it withdrew  the cover. 
Aviva accepts that it should have realised Mr B wasnt  covered much  earlier  than it did. 
I agree.  Aviva  had all the information it needed on 6 March 2018  when Mr B called it about  
the accident. It didnt  tell him he wasnt covered until 20 March after two surgeries. 
This is where the prejudice argument comes in. There has been a lot of debate about 
whether Mr B would  have  remained  abroad if Aviva had correctly  told him that he wasnt 
covered under the policy on 6 March  2018 when he first called it and whether he was fit to 
travel back  to the UK at that point.
Ive read all Mr Bs arguments  and all Avivas  arguments. I need to decide what  is likely, on 
balance, to have  happened.
The position  was that Mr B was in a country  where  the public health care wasnt of the 
highest standard. Hes described a very unfortunate incident where he had to seek treatment 
in a public  hospital following his surgeries. He couldnt afford treatment  in the private  
hospital. So hed have had two options on 6 March  to have treatment in the public hospital 
for his traumatic and serious  leg injury or to look to returning to the UK. Aviva  argues that 
hed never  wanted  to return  to the UK in any event, referring  to various emails about his 
strong wish to remain abroad.
I can see that Mr B had intended to train and remain abroad  to work (and indeed he did 
remain abroad following  his two surgeries).  Hes explained this was very important to him. 
But hes also shown he had a job offer open  in the UK if hed returned at that time. And he 
says he would have  wanted free NHS health cover rather than be treated in the public 
hospital abroad. 
Ref: DRN64254343Aviva said that Mr B turned down the chance  to return to the UK after his surgery, with a 
nurse escort. It says this shows hed never have returned to the UK even  if hed known from 
the outset that he wasnt  covered under the policy. 
I think Mr B wanted to remain abroad, to carry on with his life goal of training and working in 
a particular type of job abroad. I do see Mr Bs point that he would have wanted to return  to 
the UK for free NHS  treatment as opposed to treatment in an overseas public hospital. But 
even if he had wanted to return to the UK I need to consider  whether he was medically able 
to fly back to the UK following  the accident.
Was Mr B fit to fly to the UK on (or soon after)  6 March 2018?
Mr B says he would  have been  fit to fly on 6 March 2018. And there is medical evidence to 
support this from his treating doctor,  who said that he was fit to fly on 6 March  2018. 
Aviva says that Mr B wouldnt  have  been  fit to fly on 6 March 2018. It says when Mr B called 
on 6 March 2018 he was due to have the operation the following day. Mr B has disputed this. 
It seems  to me that surgery was originally scheduled for 8 March 2018, following Aviva  
sending the hospital its guarantee of payment.  Mr B has pointed  out that he didnt  have the 
first surgery  until 12 March 2018. This was to cover  the wound, which exposed his bone 
(tibia) with a flap of skin. But this delay was due to a different health issue,  and its clear that 
surgery was planned  to take place  as quickly as possible. 
Aviva says that it doesnt believe  Mr B would have got medical clearance from any airline  to 
allow him to fly home, due to the risk of infection from an open wound and exposed  bone. 
Mr B says it hasnt given any medical evidence to support that belief. 
I should explain that travel insurers employ  doctors  to review medical information and to 
advise on the recommended course  of treatment.  Its usual for a travel insurer to ask for a 
medical report before authorising treatment, which is what happened here. Its not enough  
for a patient to have a fit to fly certificate  from their doctor.  Where  someone has a serious 
injury as here the airline would not allow them to fly unless the airline  has granted them 
medical clearance in advance. There are specific guidelines that the airlines  follow,  and the 
travel insurers medical staff are experienced  in these  guidelines and whether its safe for an 
injured person to fly. 
Aviva received the first medical  report from Mr Bs doctor on 6 March 2018. It arranged  for a 
medical review on the same day. Avivas  note of the medical  review  on 6 March 2018 says,  
in summary, that the medical team  was concerned  Mr B had an open  wound with exposed  
bone. It wanted to check  when  he was due to have surgery, and to be sure he had antibiotic  
treatment while awaiting surgery because of the risk of infection.
I think Aviva  has made a fair point. I dont think its likely Mr B would have got medical 
clearance to fly with an open  leg wound  and exposed bone. Hes explained he was told there 
was a risk of amputation if his leg wasnt treated properly and promptly.  
Mr B has said that Aviva  itself suggested he should return to the UK to avoid the risk of 
infection. That is correct,  but this was only after hed had the surgery  to cover the open 
wound and exposed bone.
Ref: DRN64254344Having weighed all the evidence, I dont think Mr B would have had other options available 
to him even  if, as he says,  he would have looked to return to the UK if hed known he wasnt  
covered under the policy. I dont think its likely he could have returned  to the UK even if 
Aviva had told him he wasnt covered on 6 March 2018.
Aviva properly paid for Mr Bs treatment to the point it realised its error. I think that was fair 
and reasonable.  And effectively it does mean that Mr B had private treatment at a total cost 
of over 8,500 US dollars,  which Aviva  negotiated  down to £3,000. He wouldnt otherwise 
have had access to that treatment unless his relative paid for it, in addition to the costs  
incurred after cover was withdrawn.  
I can see that this benefit  of private  treatment is of little or no comfort to Mr B now.  But Im 
looking at what would  have happened had the mistake about cover  not been  made  in the 
first place. 
Mr B has explained the impact on him of Avivas decision. It was clearly  very upsetting  for 
him to be told that Aviva  was withdrawing  cover. Hes sent evidence of the medication he 
was prescribed for anxiety and insomnia. I cant ignore the fact that hed always  have 
suffered distress even  if Aviva had told him he wasnt covered under the policy at the outset. 
And if that had happened, then it seems to me Mr Bs only other option was to have  public 
hospital treatment  as hes explained he couldnt  afford private treatment. 
I am very sorry  to read about  Mr Bs response  when Aviva told him it couldnt cover him any 
further. But I think it would have been wrong  for Aviva not to tell him it was withdrawing its 
cover at the earliest  opportunity.  He would have been responsible for the medical  costs  from 
that point and he needed to know the position.  Hes explained his relative later paid a further 
£6,000 in costs,  but hes asked for compensation for pain and suffering because he says he 
still couldnt have  all the necessary post-operative treatment. But ultimately I dont think 
Aviva must compensate him in circumstances where  hed not taken out travel insurance 
before travelling 
Mr B wasnt  able to work abroad or return to the UK where hes shown he had a job offer. 
But for the reasons Ive already given I dont think its likely he could have flown home before 
the surgery. He wasnt  able to afford treatment but this wasnt  due to Avivas delay in telling 
him he wasnt covered.  
Unfortunately Mr B would  not have been able to afford all the treatment even if Aviva had 
told him he wasnt covered at the outset. And it seems he did pay for some substantial 
additional treatment  funded through his relative. I cant say Aviva must pay those costs as he 
wasnt ever covered under the policy.  The same  applies to his living  expenses  abroad.
Ive thought about whether I should  require Aviva to compensate Mr B for its delay in telling 
him he wasnt covered.  But I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable for me to do so. Aviva 
has paid around  £3,000  for Mr Bs private medical  treatment,  which  he says he couldnt  have 
otherwise afforded and for which he didnt have insurance cover.  I dont require it to pay him 
compensation in addition  to this. 
Ref: DRN64254345my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr Bs position, I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6425434