K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that he was mis-sold a finance  agreement by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
because the amount he was paid for his part exchange was less than he had agreed.
background
Mr L signed a finance agreement to acquire  a car on 15 September  2018. The car then 
developed a fault and he rejected the car. Santander agreed  to unwind the finance 
agreement and return Mr Ls deposit. Mr L says that the dealership offered him £19,000 for 
his car but the finance paperwork  only shows £18,000. Mr L wants Santander  to pay him an 
extra £1000.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  was upheld. She thought  that the 
paperwork signed by Mr L clearly showed  the amount agreed for the part exchange. She 
thought that Santander  should repay the one monthly instalment  paid by Mr L under the 
agreement which it had agreed to do so she couldnt ask it to do any more.
Mr L didnt agree with the adjudicator and replied to say in summary that he did not sign the 
documents where the part exchange was detailed and this was fraudulent.  He said that the 
figures were  never explained to him and he wasnt told that he was entering into a 
conditional sale agreement rather than a hire purchase agreement. So the complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the provider of the finance Santander is responsible for the information  given by the 
dealership about the finance agreement. I dont know exactly what  was said to Mr L at the 
dealership or what was agreed. Mr L and the dealership  have very different  accounts about 
what happened.
Where the information  is contradictory I have looked at the surrounding circumstances to 
decide what is more  likely  to have happened.
Looking at the paperwork I can see that the finance  agreement figures  were  calculated on 
the basis of Mr Ls deposit  of £11,350.85.  This is the £18,000  the dealership says was 
agreed for the part exchange less Mr Ls outstanding finance of around £6649.
I can see Mr Ls signature on a vehicle invoice which  sets out the part exchange figure  of 
£18,000 together with the outstanding finance and the amount of credit applied  for. Mr L 
points out that he hasnt  signed the bottom  box where the details of his vehicle are set out 
and he says he is only signing as the purchaser of the car. He says that he didnt see any 
details or figures.
I dont think that this is likely. The figures that went into the finance  agreement are based  on 
the £18,000 part exchange and I dont think that Mr L would have agreed to buy a car on 
finance without  looking at any of the figures or signing any of the documents. I think  it is 
more likely that Mr L signed a number of documents at the time he bought the car and cant 
recall the details. 
Ref: DRN60383732The dealership has signed a declaration setting out that the information required under the 
relevant regulations was given to Mr L and it has provided a number of documents that it 
says Mr L signed  including warranty information, credit explanation and a faults  description  
document. I think this supports the conclusion that Mr L signed  a number of documents  and 
he cant now recall the details of everything that was agreed. As the agreement has now 
been unwound I dont think I need  to say any more about the information  Mr L was given 
about the type of agreement he signed.   
There may have been a conversation about the part exchange price of the car and I dont 
doubt that Mr L thinks that he was offered £19,000. But the documents  that were  signed 
clearly set out the part exchange value and the amount of deposit  Mr L was paying for the 
car. I dont have enough evidence to say that these were not signed by Mr L or there has 
been any fraud. 
In the circumstances, I agree with the adjudicator,  that I cant  ask Santander to refund  Mr L 
any more than it has done. I note that the one monthly instalment  was actioned to be 
returned to Mr L and so I have  not considered this aspect further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision before 
23 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6038373