K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is that her mortgage endowment policy was mis-sold  in 1990 as she 
wasnt made aware of the risks associated with it. Sesame  Limited  is responsible for the sale 
of the policy.
background
The endowment policy started in 1991 and it had a target value of £27,800 and a term of 
16 years.  The policy  was a unit linked one and invested in a managed fund. When the 
premium was calculated  an assumed growth  rate of 16% was selected  to be used.
When Mrs M moved in 1997  the policy ceased being used for mortgage purposes, but was 
kept as a savings plan.  It was later surrendered in 2002 following the product provider telling 
Mrs M there  was a high risk the policy wouldnt reach its target  value.
Mrs M was a factory worker earning £10,000 at the time of the sale. There was an existing 
mortgage on the property of £8,800 and Mrs M was re-mortgaging to buy her ex-husband 
out of the family home. The new mortgage was to be in her sole name.  She had two grown 
up children living with her and another teenage  child who was still dependant.  The existing 
mortgage was on an interest-only basis with a joint endowment attached to it. The 
endowment was being surrendered as part of the divorce settlement. 
The mortgage Mrs M took was for £24,000  over a term of 16 years,  which meant it was due 
to end at her expected retirement  date.  The mortgage itself was on a stabilised basis,  which 
meant for the initial  years the payment  Mrs M had to make each month wouldnt go above  
10.9% interest.  Any amount above  that interest rate would  be held in reserve and added to 
the mortgage at the end of the stabilised period. Due to this, it was possible that the 
mortgage balance  would  increase at the end of the stabilised period and so the endowment  
policy was arranged with a target  value  of 15% higher than the original mortgage  advance to 
cover any increase.
Mrs M raised a complaint with Sesame in 2018.  It didnt investigate  her complaint, but rather  
considered it had been made to late and was time-barred. Dissatisfied with this response 
Mrs M referred  her complaint to this service.  Sesame  objected  to us considering  it.
I considered the matter  of our jurisdiction and concluded the complaint wasnt  time-barred. 
As such,  I returned  it to our investigator for the merits of the complaint to be considered. He 
did so and concluded the policy was not suitable for Mrs M at the time it was sold.  He 
recommended Sesame pay redress to Mrs M calculated in line with the industry  regulators  
guidance (known as RU89). 
Mrs M accepted the investigators opinion. Sesame asked for extensions  of time to consider 
the recommendation and was granted a significant amount of time. However,  after two 
months it still hadnt responded to the investigators  opinion. As there was no indication  that 
Sesame intended  to respond, the complaint  was passed back to me to consider its merits. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN68482222At the time of the sale Mrs M was employed in a manual job with little prospects of any 
significant increases  to her income. The mortgage  was toward the higher end of normal 
lending criteria. This would indicate she was unlikely to have the resources to deal with any 
potential shortfall during  the term. 
The policy ended around the time Mrs M was due to retire. The information available doesnt  
indicate she had an occupational pension scheme  at the time and so its likely her income 
would have been expected to reduce significantly when that happened. This means  she was 
unlikely to have  the ability to deal with a shortfall at the end of the term either. 
The policy sold was invested in a managed fund, which at the time would generally have 
been considered to represent a medium level of risk. However, when this was combined  with 
the shorter than average  term and the fact that it ran to retirement,  the policy Mrs M was sold 
would have been considered to represent  a higher  level of risk than that associated with just 
the fund it was invested in.
Mrs M does  appear to have had an endowment  linked to her previous mortgage.  However,  
given this would have been  arranged  some years before,  it is likely  to have been a with 
profits arrangement.  Such  a policy would have been considered  to represent significantly 
less risk than the policy from 1991.  In addition, the policy was sold to Mrs M and her 
ex-husband when their circumstances were very different. As such, I dont  think  the 
existence of the previous endowment policy supports the one arranged  in 1991 being  
suitable for Mrs M.
Overall, I am satisfied the risks associated with the policy Sesame sold Mrs M were not 
consistent with her circumstances and I can only find that it was unsuitable. As such  I am 
upholding this complaint.
Redress
Following the complaint  being referred  to me, I asked our investigator  to clarify the exact 
detail of the redress calculation. Sesame reverted  by offering to settle  the complaint, 
however, its loss calculation was not done  in line with the recommendation made by the 
investigator. As such, I need to issue this final decision to ensure the calculation is 
completed appropriately.
Sesame should  calculate redress as D-E where:
A = the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in accordance with the regulators 
guidance Handling Mortgage Endowment Complaints (known  as RU89), using a nil 
surrender value. This calculation should be completed for the period from 1991 to 1997 
when the policy was used for Mrs Ms mortgage.  
For guidance, as it is unknown if any interest amount was actually stabilised, Sesame should  
use the mortgage advance figure of £24,000 for this part of the calculation, as it did when 
calculating the offer it made. As Mrs M had dependants  at the time, it is reasonable that the 
cost of a decreasing term assurance be included in the overall cost comparison. 
B = a refund of the premiums paid to the policy from the date the policy ceased to be used 
for the mortgage  until it was surrendered.
Ref: DRN68482223C = interest* at 8% simple  per year on the premium in B from the date of payment to the 
date the policy was surrendered. 
D = A + B + C
E = the surrender  value  of the policy Mrs M received in 2002.
Interest* at 8% per year should be added to D-E from the date of surrender to the date of 
this decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint 
Sesame Limited should  pay Mrs M any sums due following  the above calculation  being 
completed. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
*If Sesame  Limited considers it is required to deduct income tax from the interest award,  it should  
provide Mrs M with evidence that it has done so and the amount deducted  so that she can reclaim it 
from HMRC  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6848222