K820x#14complaint 
Mr K complains on behalf of his mother Mrs K, that Vitality  Health  Limited has declined her 
medical insurance claim. He says the insurer has incorrectly categorised her hospital 
admission as an emergency, and he wants it to cover some of her costs. 
background
Mrs K had private health insurance with Vitality, entitling her to cover at a list of specific  
hospitals. In November 2017, Mrs K sought pre-authorisation to see a consultant for 
breathing difficulties. She was staying with her son at the time and wanted to be seen at a 
hospital that wasnt on her list. An appointment was made for Mrs K to be seen the hospital  
shed requested (which  Ill call hospital 1), but Vitality confirmed itd only be able to cover 
60% of her consultation  costs, because hospital 1 was not on her specific  hospital list. 
Unfortunately, the day before Mrs Ks consultation  at hospital 1, her symptoms became 
worse and she went to an urgent care centre. This was at a different  hospital (hospital 2). 
The urgent care centre diagnosed Mrs K with a chest infection and referred her to another 
consultant. That consultant decided  Mrs K needed aggressive treatment with intravenous 
antibiotics to avoid becoming worse,  and admitted her in to hospital 2. Mrs K cancelled her 
original consultation  at hospital  1, and remained in hospital 2 for around seven weeks.  
Mr K asked Vitality to cover  the costs of his mothers admission and treatment. He said the 
insurer should consider her original consultation, at hospital, 1 as brought forward and said 
that because hospital 1 and hospital 2 were  part of the same  group the insurer should cover  
60% of the costs  still. Vitality told Mr K that it wouldnt  provide cover because hospital  2 
wasnt on his mothers hospital list, her treatment wasnt pre-planned and her policy didnt 
cover emergency treatment.
Unhappy with the insurers decision,  Mr K approached this service. He told us that Vitality 
had previously agreed to cover Mrs Ks costs, on a 60/40 basis, and said it had asked for his 
mothers invoices. Mr K also said that his mothers admission wasnt an emergency and a 
letter from the consultant whod admitted her in to hospital 2 had supported that. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She thought that Vitality  had 
consistently said it wouldnt cover  Mrs Ks admission, and explained it had only asked for her 
invoices because Mr K hadnt  given its call handler  the full claim information. Our 
investigator thought  that Mrs Ks admission hadnt  been pre-authorised and was considered 
to be an emergency/urgent in its nature. She didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, but Mr K disagreed. 
He said the consultant had confirmed his mother hadnt been admitted  as an emergency  and 
didnt think our investigator couldnt have reached  an informed opinion, because  she hadnt 
listened to every call hed had with the insurer. 
The case  has now been passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN64688512my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that Mr K believes its 
necessary for every call he had with Vitality to be listened to. But the issue I need to decide 
in this case is whether  Vitalitys decision to decline Mrs Ks claim was fair, and Im satisfied 
the available  evidence in this case is sufficient  for me to do that.
Mrs Ks policy doesnt cover emergency treatment including  treatment  in an accident  and 
emergency unit or other urgent  care centre, admission to hospital in an emergency, and 
urgent admission to hospital following an unscheduled out-patient appointment. 
Mr K says that the consultant, who admitted his mother into hospital  2, has confirmed her 
admission wasnt considered to be an emergency.  There are two letters  from that consultant, 
(who I will call Dr N). The first says that, at the time of his review,  Mrs K was stable. The 
second, written after Vitality asked Dr N to provide further clarification, says:
 I recognised that she has known end stage renal  failure which she has tolerated  well for 
some time. I also noted that she has a history  of obstructive sleep apnoea for which she is 
on long term NIV at night.  As mentioned she was stable and saturating in the low 90s. Given 
the 2 comorbidities  outlined above I recognised that if her chest infection was not treated 
aggressively she might deteriorate with the infection worsening both her respiratory and 
renal status. 
As it happens I was correct and despite admission  for IV antibiotics she did deteriorate  and 
require HDU/ITU support  mainly for haemofiltration. My initial  assessment  therefore felt she 
was stable but my opinion  was to admit for IV antibiotics to try and avoid the deterioration  we 
eventually unfortunately saw a few days later.
I appreciate that Mrs K wasnt admitted to hospital  via what,  perhaps, would be considered a 
more traditional emergency route such as an accident and emergency unit. But, in my 
opinion, the available evidence relating to her admission implies that Mrs K was considered 
unwell enough  to be in need of both aggressive  treatment  and hospital  admission. I 
understand that, following  her admission, Mrs K was also in need  of organ support to 
maintain her oxygen  levels  and was later admitted in to critical care.  And I further understand 
that the remainder  of her stay went on to primarily relate to renal replacement therapy.  
I can see why Mr K has said Dr Ns letter supports his position  that his mother was not 
admitted as an emergency. But, based on the entirety of the evidence in this case, Im not 
persuaded that Vitality acted unfairly  in concluding that her admission was of an emergency 
nature. 
However, even if I were to find that her admission  wasnt an emergency, Im not persuaded 
that Mrs K would have  been covered under  the policy in any event. I say this because, her 
policy doesnt provide cover  for urgent admission in hospital following an unscheduled out-
patient appointment. The policy explains that Mrs K would only be covered for immediate 
admission if, it were  for a specific surgical procedure and it wasnt  known that her admission 
would be required when  that original procedure was booked.  
Ref: DRN64688513Based on the circumstances in this case,  Im not persuaded that Mrs K would have been 
able to satisfy that requirement. Vitality has told this service that Mrs Ks circumstances 
would not have satisfied that requirement  either. 
I know that Mr K is unhappy Vitality  asked for Mrs Ks invoices. But, as our investigator 
explained, unfortunately the call handler Mr K spoke to gave advice based on the information 
Mr K had given. I do appreciate the call handlers advice was incorrect but, for the reasons 
set out above,  Im not of the opinion that in itself means Vitality should now be liable for this 
claim.
I realise this will come  as a disappointment,  but in all the circumstances Im not persuaded 
that Vitality has acted unfairly in declining Mrs K claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019. 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6468851