K820x#14complaint
B, a limited  company which operates a bed and breakfast business, has complained about 
the decision by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited (LV) to decline a claim under 
its hotel and guesthouse insurance policy after it says an employee stole  money from it. B is 
represented by its director,  Mr M.
background
Bs card machine was used to return £5,900  to a fraudulent card.  Mr M suspected  an 
employee to be responsible. He reported  the incident to the police and the card company. 
He also made a claim to LV.
The card company apparently refused to refund any of the money.  The police investigation 
was unable to identify who was at fault.
LV declined the claim. It said that although the policy provided cover  for theft by an 
employee, this was only for theft of tangible items;  it didnt extend to electronic transfers.
Mr M, on behalf  of B, was unhappy at LVs decision. He considered that the claim should  be 
payable. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  it had 
been fair for LV to decline the claim.
Mr M, on behalf  of B, disagreed with the investigators findings. The matter  has therefore  
been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
There are three possible headings  in the policy under which B might have been eligible to 
make an eligible claim.
The first heading  was the insured peril of Theft or attempted theft. However,  the exclusions 
under this heading included the following:
e) theft or attempted  theft by Employees
Although the police felt unable to bring charges against a particular employee, it seems that 
the theft had to be committed  by an employee of B due to the use of Bs card machine. In 
view of this, I consider it reasonable for LV to decline the claim under this heading.
The second  heading was an additional  cover  provided under the policy  for Money.  
However, this section also had an exclusion for theft by employees, as well as for forgery or 
deception. I therefore again  consider it reasonable for LV to decline the claim under this 
heading. 
Ref: DRN60013102This leaves  the third possible heading which was an additional cover  provided under the 
policy for Theft by employees.  Under  this heading,  the policy states:
The Insurer will indemnify the Insured for direct loss of Money or Non-Negotiable Money or 
Property belonging to the Insured or for which they are legally responsible
a)caused by any act of fraud or dishonesty committed  during the Period of Insurance  by 
any employee with the clear  intention of making  or which  results  in improper financial 
gain for themselves or for any other person  or organisation and
b)which is discovered by the Insured and notified to the Insurer  within  30 days of the loss
It is this heading  under which B thinks LV should  accept his claim.
However, Money and Non-Negotiable Money, for which  this section provides loss 
indemnity, are defined  terms under the policy. The definitions are as follows:
Money  Cash bank  currency notes  uncrossed cheques uncrossed  postal  orders and 
money orders unused  postage stamps National Insurance stamps trading stamps luncheon 
vouchers lottery and other prize scratch cards utility vouchers top up cards mobile phone  
vouchers and International Phone Cards  held in connection with the Business belonging to 
the Insured or for which the Insured is legally liable
Non-Negotiable Money   Crossed cheques crossed girocheques crossed bankers drafts  
crossed giro drafts crossed  postal  and crossed money  orders national savings certificates 
premium bonds unexpired  units in franking machines stamped national  insurance cards 
credit card sales  vouchers  debit  card sales vouchers VAT purchase invoices held in 
connection with the Business belonging to the Insured or for which the Insured is legally 
liable
These definitions encompass  a wide range  of tangible items. But B didnt suffer  a loss of a 
tangible item. The theft was carried  out through a bank transfer. This isnt listed  under the 
above definitions.
I appreciate that B thinks LV is escaping liability for the claim through  a play on words.  But in 
my opinion the policy is deliberately worded so that cover for theft by an employee  applies 
only to tangible items. The theft in this case took place  through  an illegal  electronic bank 
transfer. No physical items were stolen. I sympathise  with B but I think  it was fair for LV to 
decline the claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
B, to accept or reject  my decision before 1 August  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6001310