K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt act fairly or 
reasonably when dealing with their mortgage. They want more compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a flexible mortgage with RBS.  This type of mortgage allowed money 
to be borrowed up to a specific  limit when the borrower wished, but it had to be repaid in full 
by the time the term ended, and the borrowing limit couldnt be exceeded. Mr and Mrs F 
transferred the mortgage to a new property  and paid the interest  due every  month.
But in 2013,  Mrs F said that they received a call from RBS telling  them that they had to bring  
the mortgage account up to date or face repossession  proceedings. They  understood this to 
mean that they needed to pay £30,000  into the mortgage account and said that they werent 
in a position to get another loan. Mr and Mrs F sold the property in 2014 and transferred a 
smaller mortgage balance  to a new property. They said that selling when they did meant that 
they didnt benefit from increased property prices and that they only did so due to RBS.
Mr and Mrs F complained to RBS. It said that in 2013 it did reduce the amount  Mr and Mrs F 
could owe in order to ensure that by the end of the term,  the mortgage  had been  repaid in 
full. RBS said that when Mr and Mrs F received the notification of its decision,  they didnt 
contact RBS for advice  and proceeded to sell their property, which  wasnt what RBS had 
wanted to happen. It paid the estate agent fees and sale costs  connected  to the property  
sale with interest, minus tax, and £1000 compensation for the trouble  and upset caused;  this 
was a total of £5857.42 net (£6160.52 gross).
Mr and Mrs F complained to us. The investigators view was that while RBS couldve dealt 
with things better in 2013, the offer it made was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
She didnt  think that RBS told Mr and Mrs F to sell the property, and noted that it actually 
advised them to seek independent advice or speak to its specialist team.  The investigator 
thought the sale of the property was something  Mr and Mrs F decided  to do and that 
property prices were always uncertain.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. They said RBS did threaten them  with repossession proceedings 
and their plan had been to ensure the mortgage  was paid at the end of the term so being  
behind the repayment plan wasnt relevant. Mrs F said more compensation should be paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are required to treat borrowers fairly  and reasonably, but theyre  also required to 
ensure loans are affordable. The mortgage  regulations changed and triggered the review of 
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage arrangements in 2013.
Ref: DRN63146852I wasnt present when Mrs F talked to RBS. But I have seen the letters  RBS sent and a 
contemporaneous note of her conversation  with it in July 2013. I can place weight on this 
note as it was written at the time before  any complaint was made. Having read the letters,  
the note and considered what Mrs F has said, I dont think its likely  that Mrs F was told 
£30,000 had to be paid into the account or possession  proceedings would  result. The tone of 
the letters and the telephone call was clear that the amount  which RBS would allow to be 
borrowed was reducing (and the terms and conditions of the mortgage  allowed a review) and 
it wasnt happy about their repayment  plan. It didnt tell Mr and Mrs F to sell; RBS did tell 
them that it wouldnt lend as much any more and they should  take action to ensure the 
mortgage was paid by the end of the term.
But I do think its likely that Mrs F understood from her conversation with RBS that if the limit 
of borrowing  reduced,  it was going  to be more difficult for her and Mr F to manage  their 
finances. That could  ultimately result  in repossession if the limit was exceeded.  This concern 
doesnt appear to have  been addressed by RBS. The written confirmation that the 
repayment plan wasnt acceptable was also very stark, though  nothing  was said there  about  
repossession proceedings.
It isnt clear why Mr and Mrs F felt borrowing elsewhere wasnt  an option or why they 
believed the immediate sale of the property was the only option. More  light is shed by the 
notes taken by RBS when Mr and Mrs F applied to transfer the mortgage to a new property 
in November 2013. Mrs F told RBS that following her discussion with it earlier in the year, 
she and Mr F had reviewed the position  and decided that their financial position would be 
improved if they moved  to a smaller property. Thats what happened and I note that it was a 
different property to the current home  of Mr and Mrs F  theres been a chain of property  
sales and purchases  since 2014.
RBS in both its letters  and conversations with Mrs F advised her to take advice or speak to 
its specialist team in 2013. This doesnt  seem to have happened  Mr and Mrs F sold the 
property. But I cant say that they sold it due to RBS; it seems to have  been  their decision 
after reviewing their finances.
That said,  its clear that RBS couldve explained  the position better to Mr and Mrs F in 2013, 
which it accepts. It has paid the costs of selling the property in 2014 with interest  and £1000  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by its failings. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset suffered, but in all the circumstances I think  this offer is 
more than fair and reasonable.  I cant say that Mr and Mrs F suffered further financial loss 
due to RBS failure  as property prices fluctuate and theres been a number of transactions 
since; I also think that it was Mr and Mrs Fs choice to sell when they did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6314685