K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays  Bank  PLC, trading as Egg at the time, mis-sold  her payment 
protection insurance when she took out her credit  card over the internet in 2010.
background
This policy covered  Mrs C for accident, sickness or if she lost her job. It cost around £0.79 
per £100  of the outstanding monthly  balance and if Mrs C had made a successful claim on 
the PPI policy  it would cover 10% of the outstanding  monthly balance  on her credit card for 
up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed with this view 
and asked for her matter  to be referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mrs C had a fair choice about  buying the policy. 
Shes told us that she has no recollection of the PPI being added.
I can see Mrs C applied for her card over the internet. Shes told us that she thinks  Barclays  
added the PPI after they took over from Egg. But I dont think  thats right. Barclays  has 
provided a sample  of the internet application  that Mrs C likely saw at the time she applied for 
her card and the PPI. There is a clear section  which  would have asked Mrs C to choose the 
PPI or leave  it. In order to move to the next screen  about the PPI Mrs C would have had to 
choose the yes box.
Ive also seen a copy of the credit  agreement. This has a section about the PPI and Mrs C 
has placed an electronic tick in the box to show she wanted the cover  at the time and the 
agreement has been dated.
I also think Mrs C would  have seen statements showing the PPI and a welcome  letter 
confirming her decision to take out the cover. Taking all this into account I think  Mrs C could  
have questioned it earlier than she did if she was unsure  about  it. 
As the application  was completed  in Mrs Cs own time over the internet, I dont think  
Barclays advised her to take out the policy. That meant  it didnt need  to take any steps to 
make sure it was the right fit for her needs. But it still had to give her clear  enough 
information so that she was able to make an informed choice about whether or not to take it 
out.
Mrs C says the cancellation terms werent explained - I think  Mrs C could have questioned 
the PPI with Barclays if she no longer wanted  it. But its possible not all the information given 
to Mrs C was as clear as it could have  been.  Thats not enough for me to uphold  this 
complaint though. I next need  to think about whether Mrs C would  have changed her mind  
Ref: DRN63397912about buying it if shed had better or clearer information. To help me decide Ive looked at 
Mrs Cs circumstances at the time and the policy terms and conditions.
I can see Mrs C was eligible for the PPI. Shes also told us she was in good health at the 
time this policy was sold to her. So I dont think she would have been affected  by any of the 
policys limitations or exclusions about medical  conditions.  I also havent  seen anything 
unusual about  Mrs Cs employment circumstances that would have stopped her from making 
a successful claim if she needed to.
Mrs C has told us she wouldnt have received any sick pay; although I can see that in a 
telephone call to Barclays she told the representative that she had two - three weeks  full 
pay. Shes also told us she didnt have any savings she could fall back  on. This PPI would 
have paid out for longer  than any sick pay she got and in addition  to it. If she couldnt  work 
for a prolonged period her income  would have reduced so I think  she would have found the 
PPI useful if things  went  wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable for her at the time.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive also taken into account what Mrs C has said about feeling penalised because she 
cleared the card twice and never had to use the PPI. But insurance is there  for peace of 
mind and to protect  against unforeseen circumstances. If Mrs C had not been able to work or 
lost her job I still think it could have been useful.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6339791