K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) has unfairly  
declined his claim for a lost pair of rental skis under his travel insurance. 
background
The facts  in this case arent disputed. Mr P rented skis. He left them in a communal area of 
his accommodation  secured by a coded  locked door. He was given  a key for a locker that 
the skis could  have been locked in within the communal area. Mr P did not put the skis in the 
locker. The skis were  stolen. And LV declined Mr Ps claim based on the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mr P disagreed with LVs decision on his claim and brought  his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. Mr P asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so the matter has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
The policy states  that it wont cover any loss, or theft of, or damage to, baggage unless it is 
with you or locked away in the accommodation  you are using on your trip or out of sight in 
the locked boot or covered luggage  area of a locked motor vehicle, or are carried in line with 
your transport providers  requirements. 
Mr P says the skis were  locked away in the accommodation. And I understand, based on 
this, why hes questioned the applicability of this term to exclude his claim.  
However, there is a further relevant policy term under the general conditions  section,  that for 
a claim to be paid, You must  take care to protect yourself and your property against 
accident, injury, loss and damage and act as if you are not insured and to reduce the risk 
and cost of any claim.
Mr Ps position is that it doesnt mean  he didnt  take reasonable care or was reckless just 
because he didnt use the full security available.  He believes  only guests and staff had 
access to the communal area, who were highly unlikely to steal the skis. Hes reasoned  that 
guests were fellow university students   many of whom he knew  personally or through  other 
friends  whod lack the motivation and ability to steal a pair of rental  skis during a foreign 
trip; and that staff were barely seen at what is or was a self-catering hotel. He says cleaning 
only took place  at the end of the trip, and that staff would realise the risk to their 
employment. 
I do appreciate and understand the points Mr P makes. But its my understanding  that its not 
been disputed  that the skis would have fit within the locker  in the communal area.  Mr P had 
been given a key to one of these lockers,  which he could have used  to fully secure the skis. 
Ref: DRN68154512And despite what Mr P has said about  the guests  and staff who had access to the communal 
room where the skis where left, I dont think the accommodation would have had lockers  to 
fit the skis if the communal area was felt to be adequate security against theft. And I think 
Mr P would have most likely realised this. So I think he wouldve realised there  was a risk by 
not using the full security made  available  to him  and that he decided  to take it anyway. Im 
not therefore persuaded I can say that Mr P took enough care to protect  the skis from loss 
and Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for LV to rely on the relevant term to decline his 
claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6815451