K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Mr S has complained that Loans  2 Go Limited provided him with a loan when 
he wasnt able to afford it. 
background
In September  2018 Loans gave  Mr S a loan for £600 repayable  over 18 months. It was a 
high interest loan with an interest rate of 989.9% APR. The total charge for the credit was 
£1,846.74, which meant  the total amount repayable by Mr S for the £600 he was borrowing, 
was £2,446.74. The monthly repayments were £135.93. Mr S net salary was approximately 
£2,050 a month. He had several  pay day loans. 
In its response to Mr S complaint, Loans said that it carried out a thorough affordability 
assessment before approving the loan. And it took into consideration his declared income 
and expenditure,  together with a review of his credit file. It was satisfied the loan was 
affordable as it believed Mr S had enough disposable income  to be able to repay the loan. 
Mr S concerns were  investigated by one of our adjudicators. He thought Loans should have 
realised the information shown  in the checks it carried out, was concerning. And this should 
have prompted  it to carry out further checks.  He said the information  provided by Mr S 
showed that he had significant  outgoings  and was borrowing to cover those outgoings. 
There was also evidence  of gambling.  So, he didnt think Mr S should have been given the 
loan. 
Loans disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In summary, it said it had verified  Mr S 
bank account  to check that he had enough income  to afford the loan. And it obtained a credit 
report which showed no adverse information. It was satisfied with the level of checks  it 
carried out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Loans  treated Mr S 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the loan.
1)Did Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did Loans  make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Loans complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Mr S would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
Ref: DRN67639492The rules  that Loans  had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Mr S could afford  to repay the loan he was wanting  to take out. 
This is often  referred to as an affordability assessment.
 
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of Loans checks, needed to reflect the 
nature of the loan, bearing  in mind things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan,  the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  to be carried as part of its affordability assessment, needed to be borrower 
focussed. What I mean  by this is that the checks needed to consider whether paying the 
loan back would cause  Mr S any difficulties or have any adverse consequences for him. It 
would also need  to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being lent, the 
term of the loan and the monthly  repayments,  total charge  for the credit  and the interest rate 
being charged. This isnt an exhaustive  list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Mr S had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to make  the loan repayments with a low income.  
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts he had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Mr Ss ability  to repay, where 
repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether Loans completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would  be able to repay his loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary,  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Mr S was applying for a high-cost credit product which had an APR of 989.9%
The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Mr S borrowed. 
Individually and taken  together,  there  are several  risk indicators here.  So, I think  that it was 
important for Loans to have conducted  checks which  gave it a thorough  understanding  of 
Mr S financial position  and to scrutinise the information it gathered carefully,  asking follow-
up questions where necessary,  before  agreeing to lend.
Loans has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed  to provide Mr S with the loan. 
And this seems to be on the basis of carrying out a credit search and reviewing the income  
and expenditure  information provided  by Mr S. It says it carried out an affordability 
assessment based  on this information.  
Ref: DRN67639493Based on its assessment, Loans says that it thought Mr S loan was affordable  for him as it 
concluded he had surplus income  each month.
But I think the information contained in the credit report it obtained should have raised  
concerns about  the affordability  of the providing  the loan to Mr S. I say this because  the 
credit report  shows  that Mr S had taken  out approximately 30 short term loans over the 
previous 12 months.  At the very least, the information Loans had, should  have  put it on 
notice to make further enquiries about Mr S finances.
So, given the information Loans  had, I dont think its checks  were  reasonable or 
proportionate in this case. And Im not persuaded that the loan was affordable  for Mr S. I say 
this because as Ive set out above, I think even the information Loans  obtained  from Mr S 
posed real questions about  his ability to sustainably repay the loan.  
I say this because  Mr S background of having  taken out pay day loans, suggests to me that 
he was already having difficulties in managing his finances when he sought a loan from 
Loans. And given  the history of pay day borrowing, I think  all this information  should either 
have prompted  Loans to decline the application  or  at least  have alerted it to make  further 
enquiries of Mr S finances  and assess the affordability of the loan for him. 
What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown at the time?
I think Loans should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted to 
the circumstances of Mr S application.  This was a high cost loan being taken out by an 
individual with a history of taking out a significant number of short-term  loans over a 
relatively short period  of time. Given the information  contained in the credit  report that Loans 
had, I think this should have prompted it to carry out further checks  to establish his financial 
position.
Mr S has provided additional  information  about his finances  to help us better understand his 
circumstances and the potential impact on him of taking out this loan. He has provided us 
with copies of several  months bank statements prior to his taking out the loan in September  
2018. These statements record payments in respect  of pay-day loans and that his monthly 
expenditure was far in excess of his monthly salary.  
They also show Mr S had used a significant amount of his income  to fund gambling over the 
previous 3 months prior to taking out the loan. It seems to me that this habit was placing a 
significant pressure  on Mr Ss wider position which was relevant to Loans  affordability 
assessment. And he also appears to have been  in a cycle  of taking out pay day loans, which  
should also have  alerted  Loans to question whether the loan was affordable  for him. So, I 
dont think the Loans should  have provided Mr S with this loan.
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. And I understand that he has now done that. But 
he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt  have  been  provided to him. So, I 
think Mr S has lost out and Loans should  put things right for him. Loans should: 
a) Remove  all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset.  Any payments 
made by Mr S should  then be deducted  from the new starting  balance.  If the payments Mr S 
has made total more  than the amount he was originally lent, then any surplus should be 
Ref: DRN67639494treated as overpayments  and refunded  to him with 8% simple interest* calculated on any 
overpayments made,  from the date they were paid by Mr S to the date the complaint is 
settled.
b) If there is still an outstanding balance, then Loans should agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr S, bearing in mind the need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those  
discussions; and taking into account his current ability to repay  the loan from his present 
disposable income. 
c) Remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr S credit file as a result  of this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans to deduct  tax from this interest. Loans should  give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is to uphold Mr S complaint about 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6763949