K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Black Horse  Limited mis-sold him two payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policies with two loans.
background
Mr W took out a loan with Black Horse in July 2007. At the same time, it sold him a single  
premium PPI policy protecting  his loan repayments if he was unable  to work due to accident  
or sickness. It also provided life and critical illness cover. The cost of the PPI was added  to 
the loan and attracted interest.  
In April 2009, Mr W took out a further  loan and a regular   as opposed to single   premium 
PPI policy, providing him with life and critical illness cover only.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W says about  being mis-led into believing  the PPI 
wasnt optional and that he had to take it if he wanted the loans.  Black  Horse has, among 
other things,  provided  a copy  of a demands  and needs questionnaire Mr W signed in 2007. It 
sets out Black Horses  personal recommendation  which Mr W apparently accepted   that 
he should buy life and critical illness and accident and sickness cover.  It also shows  Mr W 
was offered unemployment cover but decided  against taking it. 
This suggests to me that the PPI was discussed  and that Mr W was aware  he didnt have to 
follow Black  Horses advice. On balance, I think he chose to take it on both occasions,  
although I can understand if he cant remember this now.
Black Horse  recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances in 2007 and 2009, I think  that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover selected.   
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But Im satisfied  he chose to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But 
Black Horse  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  Black  Horse didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN68620692To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums   and I think that 
offers fair in this case.
what Black Horse needs to do
Black Horse  has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premiums, if it hasnt  already  done so. Black Horse  should also pay 
back to Mr W any extra  interest he paid because  of that.
Regarding the PPI sold in 2007, Black  Horse should pay back to Mr W the extra he paid 
each month  on the loan because the commission and profit share was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium  including any extra Mr W paid if the loan was paid off early. Black  Horse 
should also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest on the extra paid each month.  
Regarding the PPI sold in 2009, Black  Horse should pay back to Mr W the extra he paid 
each month  because the commission  and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI. Black Horse should also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Black Horse  Limited doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums, if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6862069