K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt  reimbursed  money  she says she lost as a 
result of a scam.
background
Mrs K says that she made  two payments from her HSBC account  to third-party accounts as 
a result of a scam: £680 on 31 July 2018,  and £688  on 18 August 2018. She says the 
payments were for flights and the airline and staff seemed very legitimate and genuine but 
unfortunately she subsequently  understood that shed been scammed and she reported  the 
matter to HSBC.
HSBC didnt recover or refund to Mrs K the money  she lost. Mrs K remained unhappy and 
referred the matter  here. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He concluded, in summary,  that HSBC  couldnt 
reasonably have been expected to prevent the scam  or Mrs K making  the payments; and 
that Mrs Ks payments had already left the third-party accounts  she sent them  to by the time 
she contacted  HSBC about the scam, so HSBC wouldnt have been  able to recover  the 
money.
Mrs K didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same  conclusions as the adjudicator, and for 
materially the same reasons. 
I know Mrs K has been waiting for this final answer for a long time and this isnt the outcome 
shes been hoping  for. I understand  why she has wanted to do all she can to try to get her 
money back. And I have no reason to doubt that Mrs K has, as she says,  been the victim of 
a scam. Im really sorry shes lost this money.  Here, however, I need to decide whether it 
would be fair and reasonable for HSBC, in all the circumstances  of this case, to be held 
responsible for this loss. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldnt  and Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN60602112Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  And regulated 
firms like HSBC  are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6). 
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.  This is 
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
So, with all this in mind,  I have considered the position carefully.
Ive reviewed Mrs Ks account  statements leading up to the payments. And overall and in the 
context of Mrs Ks normal spending  and account  usage, Im satisfied  here that it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable to say that the amount  and type of the two payments should  have 
appeared unusual or suspicious to HSBC. The payment requests werent unusually large or 
suspicious  Mrs K had in the past conducted  transactions for greater amounts; the two 
payments on 31 July 2018  and 18 August 2018  were spaced around two and a half weeks 
apart; and I dont think the question of them being  to a new payee should, in the particular 
circumstances here,  have made HSBC automatically suspicious that Mrs K was at risk of 
financial harm. So in the circumstances here, Im satisfied that HSBC didnt do anything 
wrong by following the instructions Mrs K gave  to send the money  without questioning Mrs K 
about the payments first. And as there wasnt any interaction between Mrs K and HSBC as 
part of the payment requests, HSBC  didnt otherwise unreasonably miss an opportunity  to 
unearth the scam  before  the payments  were made.
Ive thought about the possibility that the beneficiary  account holders name  didnt match the 
payee name Mrs K instructed. However,  at the time the payments were made, the relevant 
regulations  the Payment Service Regulations 2017  set out that payments are sent 
according to the unique  identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the Payment  Service Regulations 2017 states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed with the unique identifier, the payment order is 
deemed to have been correctly executed  by each payment service provider involved in 
executing the payment  order  with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
(5) Where  the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a)the payment service provider  is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service  user.
The impact  of this is that the payments were correctly processed if they went  to the account  
number and sort code  instructed by the payer (here, Mrs K). There was no regulatory  
requirement to check the beneficiary name  provided. So, even  if the beneficiary account  
holders name didnt match the payee name Mrs K instructed, I cant  fairly say HSBC didnt 
follow Mrs Ks instruction when it sent the payments to the account number and sort code 
Ref: DRN60602113provided, and Im not persuaded  it should have done more to check the beneficiary in the 
circumstances of these  payments.
I understand Mrs K reported the scam to HSBC  on 21 August 2018. When HSBC became 
aware of the potential  scam on 21 August 2018, it should have acted quickly  to try to recover 
Mrs Ks money from the beneficiary accounts.  I know this is disappointing to Mrs K and I do 
empathise with the situation she has found herself  in. Ultimately, however, it was the 
fraudster that tricked Mrs K. And Im satisfied by the available information, like our 
adjudicator, that the funds Mrs K sent were utilised  and spent  by the payee before she 
reported the matter  to HSBC  and that ultimately HSBC wouldnt reasonably have been 
able to recover the money in any event.
Mrs K has questioned why there were no warnings of fraud  or scams  at the time, and why it 
is only now HSBC has put them in place. In the circumstances,  I empathise  with Mrs K and 
appreciate she will be disappointed.  However,  I have explained above why Im satisfied  that 
it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for HSBC  to be held responsible for her loss in the 
circumstances of her case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  by 24 July 2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6060211