K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs W took out in 2002. It was added  to her 
existing account  during  a telephone  call.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case. 
Having done this, Im minded to uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt have to check  it was right for her. But it 
did have to take reasonable steps to make sure Mrs W had enough information so she could 
decide for herself whether  it was right for her.
The policy excluded claims resulting from a medical  condition the customer knew about or 
got treatment for in the 12 months before the start date. Mrs W had two such a medical 
conditions, which she had suffered from for a number of years.
Although Mrs W has said the conditions were controlled at the time, I think  this still wouldve 
mattered to Mrs W in the circumstances of this particular sale.  From  what  shes told us, she 
had suffered in the past from complications, and she had to take time off work because  of 
one of her conditions.
The conditions may have been  well controlled  at the time of the sale,  but part of one of the 
conditions meant it could be unpredictable  in when it could become serious. So I think  it 
wouldve been on her mind. And I think she wouldve considered it to be the most  likely 
condition to cause  her to be off sick. But under this policy, she wouldnt have been able to 
claim for time off caused by this  or for anything that resulted from it.
I cant see that Mrs W was given clear information about this exclusion  at the sale. If she had 
been given clear enough information, I think its most likely that she wouldnt have bought  
the policy. So I think that Mrs W has lost out because of the flaws  in this particular  sale.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs W would have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
Ref: DRN69125322So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. FICL should then refund the 
difference between  what  Mrs W owed when she closed her account and what  she would 
have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, if Mrs W has already  received a 
refund of the commission part of this PPI policy, then FICL can take that off the amount 
it owes her, so that it does not refund the same amount twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs W would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% simple a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs W 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs W what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs W a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  Financial  Insurance Company Limited must pay 
her compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6912532