K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains Barclays Bank  UK PLC has caused her, and her family,  very significant 
amounts of distress as a result of the way its treated  her.
background
Mrs W has a mortgage  with Barclays, which has several years left to run, and she used to 
have a current account too. Shes a vulnerable customer.
In 2017 Mrs W was in difficulties with her mortgage.  At the time she was receiving support 
from a charity. Mrs Ws support  worker   whod  been helping her for around five years   
wrote to Barclays to give it an insight into Mrs Ws vulnerability. The letter made  it clear  that 
Barclays should reply  to Mrs W if it needed  more information. Barclays,  despite this, wrote  to 
the charity. Mrs W says that this caused  her, her support worker and the charity enormous  
embarrassment and distress  the letter came from Barclays collections department 
meaning everyone knew she owed money. Mrs W complained to Barclays and then to us.
An ombudsman looked at that complaint and awarded Mrs W £3,500  in compensation, 
saying that it should  have  been obvious  to Barclays that it should under no circumstances be 
writing to the charity. The ombudsman said that Barclays  had been so process-driven that it 
had failed to recognise this, and the inevitable (substantial) impact this would have on Mrs 
W. Mrs W was given  a point of contact  the aim of which was to help her rebuild trust in 
Barclays and get a repayment plan for her mortgage  set up  too.
Mrs W says that Barclays blocked her current account within days of our ombudsman 
awarding her £3,500  in compensation. Mrs W says that shes  had many  problems with 
Barclays since then  she feels that Barclays has it in for her because she challenged it. 
She complained about these problems and Mrs W wasnt happy with the responses  she 
received from Barclays. One of the problems complained about was Barclays  not giving her 
a dedicated point of contact who she can communicate with in a way that doesnt  make her 
anxious. She also complained about  getting  calls from Barclays   other  than from a 
dedicated point  of contact  despite  Barclays knowing that she finds  calls very difficult and 
prefers things in writing. Mrs W asked  us to look into the problems shed had.
Ref: DRN63433032One of our investigators  started to look into Mrs Ws complaint and got a lot of information 
from both sides. They told Mrs W, based on what theyd seen, that they didnt think Barclays  
had done enough to make  sure she had a dedicated  point  of contact. Our investigator 
wasnt, however, able to finish  dealing with Mrs Ws complaint, so the complaint was handed 
to another investigator. This upset Mrs W a lot. The investigator who was asked to look into 
this complaint completed the investigation and said that they thought Barclays  had already 
compensated Mrs W sufficiently for the various  mistakes it had made. Mrs W disagreed  and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
our approach to date and mine
Weve carried out a very detailed investigation  into Mrs Ws complaint  our file is over 2,500 
pages long. Our investigator has also given a very detailed response  to the complaints Mrs 
W has made   in a view thats over 20 pages long. I dont think  it would be helpful for me to 
do a similar  exercise. Instead  Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues.
dedicated point of contact
By the time one of our ombudsmen looked  at Mrs Ws previous complaint, everyone had 
agreed that she should have a dedicated point  of contact. Everyone also agreed that the aim 
of the dedicated point  of contact was:
a)to help rebuild  Mrs Ws trust in Barclays; and
b)to allow  for a repayment  plan for her mortgage  to be set up.
The Final  Decision the ombudsman issued didnt,  therefore, need to require Barclays  to set 
up a dedicated  point of contact for Mrs W. Instead  it focussed on how much compensation 
Barclays should pay. Our adjudicator had recommended  £3,500  in compensation  Barclays  
thought that this was an excessive. The ombudsman didnt, and so he required Barclays to 
pay Mrs W £3,500 in compensation.
Mrs W accepted our ombudsmans  Final Decision  meaning it became  binding  and the 
adjudicator whod been involved in the complaint sent Mrs W details of the dedicated contact 
Barclays had agreed to set up. Ive seen the email that the adjudicator sent, and in it they 
gave Mrs W:
a)the name of a person  whod be their contact;
b)the details  of the team they worked  in; and
c)a telephone number on which they could be contacted.
The assumption appears to have been  that Mrs W would be able to speak to someone  who 
was their dedicated point of contact on the phone, and not always necessarily need 
everything in writing.
I can see that the person who was originally named Mrs Ws point of contact spoke to Mrs W 
several times on the phone. I can see Mrs W called her too. So, had it not been for other  
Ref: DRN63433033problems, it seems that this arrangement could have  worked.  Unfortunately,  it didnt  for a 
number of reasons.
I dont think its particularly helpful  to go into all of the reasons why the point of contact(s)  
didnt work.  I think its more helpful to say that this is an issue  I can look into as the previous 
Final Decision didnt  require Barclays to put a dedicated point of contact in place  it had 
been agreed. The previous Final  Decision didnt go into any detail in terms of how the 
contact should  work  either  it focussed  on compensation. So thats  something  Im going  to 
cover in this decision   notwithstanding what Im about to say  because  its important Mrs 
W and Barclays have a mechanism in place that allows them  to have a more positive 
relationship given that Mrs Ws mortgage has a number  of years left to run.
I can see that Mrs W is a vulnerable consumer  the letter from her support worker explains 
why. I can also see that Mrs W is in a better  place  than she was when she first complained. 
Thats in part as a result of support shes received, and in part as a result of Mrs W focussing 
on moving forwards. I can, however, also see that Mrs W has set backs  from time to time.  
Ive exchanged a number  of emails with Mrs W  Barclays too. Mrs W has at times said she 
doesnt need dedicated point of contact  because  shes  in a better place  but I think it 
would be sensible for everyone involved if she is given a dedicated  point of contact to reduce 
the risk of set backs in the future. In light of whats happened, I also think  its important that I 
make it clear  how that dedicated  point of contact should work. So thats what  Im going to do.
Its clear that Mrs W can find it distressing dealing with a lot of different people   particularly 
people she doesnt  know well  on the phone. That doesnt mean she isnt able to use the 
phone. She can, and often does.  This should, however, be when she chooses to. I dont 
think thats unreasonable. And I can also see why Mrs W in the past asked Barclays  to give 
her a dedicated point of contact who she could also email. Barclays, however, didnt provide 
Mrs W with an email address, and when we asked why it explained that this wasnt possible 
as the team  from which Mrs Ws original point  of contact dont use email. I dont think  thats  a 
reasonable response, for a number of reasons.  For a start, for example, I can see from the 
file that the team in question have a team email address,  and that the team  communicate  
with each other by email.  More importantly, if that team doesnt use email  despite the 
evidence suggesting  otherwise  then the obvious  answer is that Barclays  ought to be 
choosing someone  else within  its organisation who is able to send and receive emails. The 
same is true of letters. Barclays  have  told us that the team  from which the dedicated contact 
came cant  send out letters in their own name,  and that all of their correspondence  is in the 
third person.  I accept  that this might  be the case.  The consequences  of this were,  however, 
entirely foreseeable  namely that Mrs W didnt feel her dedicated point of contact  had been  
involved in putting  together the letters she was sent because:
a)they were so impersonal; and
b)they appeared to have no connection  to her point of contact.
Im pleased to say  for reasons Im about  to give  that matters have now moved on.
Mrs W had a problem with her mortgage  that needed sorting out whilst I was still looking into 
her complaint. Barclays, to its credit, suggested  that a member of its executive  complaints 
team could speak  to Mrs W and help her resolve this issue. Mrs W was happy  with that 
suggestion, and it worked.  Barclays then suggested  that the same person could become a 
dedicated contact  for Mrs W in the event that she had problems. I thought that was a 
sensible suggestion  and it gets round one of the drawbacks of a dedicated  point of contact, 
namely that they might not have the product knowledge necessary to answer questions from 
Ref: DRN63433034a consumer with a range of products, as is the case with Mrs W. So I put the idea to Mrs W, 
and she was happy with it too. So Im going to say that this is what Barclays should do.
Before suggesting  a member of its executive complaints team could become a dedicated 
contact for Mrs W in the event she had problems, Barclays said a dedicated point of contact 
wouldnt work because  they might  leave the organisation or move.  I accept that Mrs Ws 
point of contact  might  change from time to time, and when they do Barclays will need to 
make sure Mrs W is told in advance. But, thats  not a reason in itself to say she cant  have a 
dedicated point  of contact. Im mentioning  this now as Barclays will need to keep  this in 
mind.
Barclays will need to give Mrs W an email address she can communicate with her contact at, 
as well as an address she can write to which will mean letters get to her contact. Barclays  
should also give Mrs W a telephone number for her dedicated contact, should she decide 
shes comfortable speaking to them on the phone. If Mrs W calls her dedicated  contact, then 
its reasonable that they call her back.  If this becomes too much for Mrs W, then its her 
responsibility to let her contact know. Barclays will need to make sure that it explains, for 
example, where  and what hours  her contact works  if context is important. It was not, for 
example, helpful  that Barclays didnt explain that letters her previous contact sent out would  
be in the third person as this gave  Mrs W the impression  that they hadnt been  involved. Im 
not going to comment on what Barclays obligations under the Equality Act may or may not 
be, but Barclays will need to keep these  obligations, amongst other things, in mind on an 
ongoing basis when  deciding what arrangements  it needs to put in place for Mrs W.
Mrs Ws financial difficulties
I would have expected Barclays to have  done  better when it came to setting up a dedicated 
point of contact  for Mrs W. That doesnt,  however, mean I think Barclays  is solely 
responsible for the difficulties that the parties  have had. As both of our investigators have 
explained, Barclays has lent money to Mrs W and is entitled to have that money  repaid.  
Equally, Barclays has to deal with customers  who get into financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That can, however, only happen when both parties  are open with each 
other and co-operate. In this case,  there  are times  when I dont think Mrs W has been as 
open as she should have  been with Barclays. Mrs W hasnt always, for example, been  as 
transparent about her finances as she should  have been. Our investigator identified  a 
number of accounts belonging to Mrs W into which regular income appeared to be paid,  
including accounts  Mrs W had said didnt  belong to her. That is not helpful when Mrs W is 
expecting Barclays to make decisions about what should happen  to her mortgage arrears  
next. I appreciate  that Mrs W has at times  problems  with disassociation  and sometimes  
harmful behaviours,  but I can understand why Barclays started to consider taking legal 
action given the length of time the arrears on Mrs Ws mortgage had been  building up and 
the apparent lack of affordability  on her part. The parties agreed a repayment plan to clear 
the arrears on Mrs Ws mortgage a while ago, again whilst Ive been considering this 
complaint. Events  since then have likely had an impact. But it was encouraging to see that 
theyd been able to do this, and I hope  that theyll make further progress going forwards.
Ref: DRN63433035impact and compensation
I agree  with our investigator that Barclays has made a number of mistakes in this case. I 
have to base any award  I make, however, on what the evidence tells me about the impact 
these mistakes have had on Mrs W rather  than awards we may have made in the past.
I accept that Mrs W has been through significant  amounts  of distress  in part because  
stress for her is magnified. I dont, however, agree that Barclays  ought to pay more  than it 
has already done  so when I look at this complaint as a whole. So Im not going to award 
additional compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to give Mrs W a dedicated contact 
along the lines it has offered, taking into account what Ive said in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6343303