K820x#14complaint
Miss A received refunds  from Barclays Bank  UK PLC to her credit card account. But she 
was unhappy  with its explanation around why she received these. 
background
Barclays sent Miss A a letter in November 2018  to let her know  that she might be due a 
refund on her account. It said the reason for this was because  it had discovered it hadnt 
always provided the correct support to its customers who were  in collections.
Following contact from Miss A, Barclays sent a further letter to provide additional 
information. It said that it had made the decision to refund charges and interest that had 
accrued on accounts  which may have been  affected by its error   and the relevant  dates  
were between October 2013  and July 2017. It said this meant some customers  would 
receive refunds  even  if Barclays hadnt  done  anything wrong with their account. 
Having reviewed Miss As case,  Barclays said it had maintained regular contact with her; 
had applied  holds while she was in financial difficulty; and had suggested  affordability  
assessments which shed chosen not to complete. So had it not taken the blanket approach  
it did, it wouldve found that it hadnt done anything wrong in Miss As case  and wouldnt 
have refunded her £67.35 in charges in December  2017. 
Barclays also explained that it refunded charges of £66.94 in January 2018. So it says 
Miss A has benefited from being  refunded twice  but it wouldnt be asking for any of this 
money to be returned.  
Our investigator considered this complaint. He thought  Barclays had done enough to explain 
its reasons for the refund and couldnt see sufficient information to say that it had done 
something wrong or had mismanaged Miss As account. Miss A disagreed.  She didnt think 
Barclays had handled her account correctly  and told us she was unhappy because her 
account has been closed, the debt sold on, and her credit rating ruined. 
The investigator explained that the application of the charges to Miss As account  (and 
consequences arising from this) and the account closure were the subject matter of a 
separate complaint with our service. He remained of the opinion  that there was insufficient  
evidence of any mishandling of the account.  Miss A disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The matters  I need to decide here are whether Barclays has sufficiently explained the 
reasons for providing a refund and whether theres  any evidence  of the account being 
mishandled. Im satisfied  the other points Miss A has raised are the subject matter of a 
separate complaint  and therefore beyond the scope of this decision.
While I know it may come  as a disappointment to Miss A, I dont uphold  her complaint  and 
Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN64865142Ive considered the letter Barclays sent to Miss A initially. I think  this gave a sufficiently  clear  
explanation around why it was providing  customers with refunds. Given  that Barclays had 
taken a blanket approach to this matter, I can understand why it didnt go into any specifics  
in this letter  it hadnt conducted  individual reviews of customer  accounts.  Its important  to 
note that its for a business to decide what internal processes and regulatory procedures it 
has in place. This generally isnt something with which our service would interfere, as such  
matters are within the scope of legitimate  commercial judgments. So I dont think its for me 
to comment on whether Barclays was right to adopt  this blanket approach, rather than 
reviewing accounts  individually.  
Ive also thought about the letter Barclays sent to Miss A after she got in touch with it 
following the initial letter.  Again, I think it gave sufficient explanation around  why it was 
providing refunds  to customers. And Im satisfied it made it clear  why it hadnt actually made 
errors in the handling of Miss As account;  it had spoken with her to try to encourage her to 
complete an affordability  assessment so it could set up an affordable  repayment solution  
based on her personal circumstances. 
Based on what Ive seen  and been  told, I conclude that Barclays  explained the reason  for 
the refunds clearly.  And Miss A hasnt  produced  any persuasive evidence that would 
suggest her account  wasnt  handled as it shouldve been. So I dont think  Barclays  has acted 
wrongly. I also note that, whether or not Miss A feels the explanation is sufficient, she hasnt 
lost out financially from this exercise. Ive seen that the refunds were credited to her account 
and it appears that Miss A has benefited twice. Miss A thinks  that one of these refunds was 
the result  of a separate conversation with Barclays. But even if this were the case,  shes still 
had a refund  which we now know Barclays wouldnt ordinarily have  applied.  So it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  for me to ask it to do anything  further here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint against  Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6486514