K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H took out a store card in 2002 in the store. PPI was added  at the same time. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL didnt  advise Mrs H to take out the policy. But, it did have to give her enough clear 
information to decide for herself if the policy was right for her and she wanted to buy it. 
Mrs H had a pre-existing medical  condition (PEMC) at the time PPI was added. Shed had 
this for around 20 years and was taking medication for it. I think  it unlikely that her PEMC 
wouldve been covered under the policy. She said she was eligible to get up to 12 months 
worth of sick pay through work (six months  worth  at full pay and six months worth at half). I 
think she probably wouldve still been  covered through her work  benefits if she was off work 
because of her PEMC.   I think had she been  given clearer information about the limitations 
on cover  and understood she wouldnt  have  been  fully covered under the PPI policy,  I dont  
think she wouldve thought it worth it to her, in her circumstances.   I think it unlikely that she 
wouldve taken out PPI, so, I think that shes lost out as a result of what  FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs H would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN69387442B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs H would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs H what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and order Financial Insurance Company Limited to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6938744