K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  lent him money 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr J wants Sunny pay him compensation and remove  any negative information about  the 
loans from his credit file.
Mr J is represented in his complaint  by a claims management company (CMC).
background
Mr J took out 12 instalment loans with Sunny between August  2015  and April 2018. 
Mr J says that he was borrowing from multiple  lenders  to keep up with his loan repayments. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Js complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that Sunny shouldnt have  agreed loans six to 12. She recommended that Sunny 
refund the interest and charges that Mr J had paid on the affected loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove loans six to 12 entirely from Mr Js credit  
file. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendation. It said Mr Js loan repayments 
represented a small percentage of his declared monthly income  of £2,200.  
Sunny said that it carried out a number of checks to understand how Mr J was managing  his 
credit commitments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Mr J, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC carried guidance for lenders about responsible  lending.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr J could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
Ref: DRN61189492the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
Mr J didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about loans one to five. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Mr J had with 
Sunny, I will take them  in to account when considering his other loans.
loans six to 12
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr J with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Mr J any more  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Js case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  the overall  pattern of Mr Js borrowing suggested  that hed become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr J had taken out in about 19 months.  Although it was less 
than Mr Js first loan  Mr J had two other loans open at the same  time.
Ref: DRN61189493The pattern  of overlapping loans continued  from loan six onwards. By loan 12, Mr J had four 
loans open at the same time,  which meant that he had to make  more than one loan 
repayment each  month.  
Rather than Mr J using the loans  in a flexible way as Sunny suggested to the adjudicator, it 
seems to me its more  likely that Mr J needed  to borrow more  money to try and fill the hole 
repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances. And that taking on more debt wasnt 
sustainable.
I think that Mr J lost out because Sunny continued to lend money from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Js ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, I consider that its fair to uphold Mr Js complaint about loans six to 12.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr J paid on loans  six to 12;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 12 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 12 should be removed from Mr Js 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6118949