K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs C complain about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
background
Mr W and Mrs Cs relative unfortunately passed  away. A claim was made  on his policy with L 
& G but the claim was declined. L & G invoked the clause in the policy  that excludes claims 
where L & G consider  the assured took their own life. Mr W and Mrs C complained  to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but didnt think  L & G had done anything  
wrong. As Mr W and Mrs C didnt agree the case has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint, for the same reasons as the investigator.  
The policy here contains a clause that allows the policy to be cancelled for suicide, self-
injury, or an event where in the insurers  reasonable opinion  the life insured took their own 
life. In the inquest held an open  verdict  was returned. So the coroner didnt  confirm  suicide, 
but that isnt the only test under the policy, and a coroners level of proof for suicide is very 
high. The policy allows cancellation  on the basis of reasonable  opinion,  and it is this test that 
I must make sure L & G have applied correctly. 
It isnt my role to agree  or disagree  with the coroner, or make my own definitive ruling as to 
what happened to the deceased.  What I have to decide is whether L & G have acted 
reasonably based on the evidence they have.  And I think they have.
The deceased had a fraud  investigation concerning them ongoing at the time of death. 
Whilst I note Mr W and Mrs Cs evidence that he wasnt worried  about  that it does add to a 
number of concerning  elements here. This isnt the only policy that the deceased had taken 
out, and for considerable sums assured And there  dont seem  to any corresponding  life 
events, such as an extra mortgage, that would  necessitate such a large increase in life 
assurance at that time in the deceaseds  life. That must  also raise some  questions.  
I have noted the contention that the death  may have been  an accident, or even a criminal act 
by other  people. But, no injuries  were found on the body that supports these suggestions.  No 
evidence was found of a heart attack or other medical condition or of a fall sufficiently  bad 
enough to lead to the death being  an accident,  or anymore  malicious  injury.  
Looking at all the evidence I have concerning the police investigation, the insurances, 
medical evidence,  and the time and place  of death  I cannot say that L & G have drawn an 
unreasonable conclusion here. I dont know for sure what happened, indeed it may be 
impossible to ever establish that, but I dont  think I can ask L & G to meet the claim, as it 
remains possible that the assured took their own life. 
Mr W and Mrs C have  indicated that they may take legal action if the ombudsman service  is 
unable to help them. If they reject my decision then approaching our service  will not have 
affected their legal rights. And it seems to me that the courts may be an option for them, as 
Ref: DRN68687212they will have the chance there to put their evidence and perhaps give direct testimony as to 
the character  and circumstances of the deceased.  
my final decision
I make  no award against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6868721