K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that she was given unsuitable  advice  by Plutus Asset  Management which  
was part of Plutus Group (now Gate Capital Group  Ltd). She was advised to put about  
£49,000 in Greyfriars  Portfolio Six. She says that is a fund for experienced investors,  but she 
is not an experienced investor.
background
I issued my provisional decision for this complaint on 2 May 2019. I set out the background 
to the advice Mrs M is complaining about  in that document. 
In summary,  Mrs M wanted to take the tax free cash from her pension at age 55 in two 
years time. This was to pay for a world cruise  the cost of which  was estimated as £25,000 
and use the balance of the tax free cash to reduce her mortgage. Mrs M was advised to 
transfer her pension benefits  and invest in three different funds. One of these was Portfolio 
Six run by Greyfriars. 
A section  of a document headed Provider / Fund  information said:
Portfolio Six (P6)  is a portfolio of fully managed investments specifically designed  to 
allow investors to gain exposure  of both non-correlated and niche investments under 
one professionally managed umbrella.
P6 utilises instruments such as corporate bonds,  low capital  professional investor 
and qualifying investor funds listed on recognised  exchanges,  alongside fixed 
interest, property and equity investments.
P6 has been  designed  as a long term investment to provide accessibility on a spread 
of investments, which mitigate  risk and provide rewards not necessarily associated 
with economic market  performance.
Mrs M signed  a Greyfriars Asset Management  Discretionary Fund Management Service  
Portfolio Six application  form. This was also signed by the adviser from Plutus Asset  
Management. The application form included the following  description  of the objectives for 
Portfolio Six:
PORTFOLIO SIX - OBJECTIVES
The portfolio  has been specifically designed for investors wishing to gain exposure to 
investments that counter the risks associated with mainstream asset classes. Each 
investment is chosen on its individual merit to perform independently of major markets,  with 
management focusing on specific opportunities, without reference to an index or other more 
correlated assets. As such  the portfolio is not run to have a maximum volatility  or loss 
capacity.
Portfolio Six may wholly consist  of non-pooled  investments such as Exchange  Traded 
Funds, simple deposits and asset backed securities and our discretion extends to 
investments in unregulated investments such as direct investments into commercial  property 
or unquoted  corporate bonds, but will never include 'Unregulated Collective Investment 
Schemes' (UCIS) or 'Non Mainstream Pooled Investments' (NMPI).
Ref: DRN64808902Given the nature of the underlying investments, the liquidity of the portfolio may be 
restricted, but we will endeavour  to facilitate trades via the single dealing point each month,  
where necessary.
The following  information  was handwritten on the form:
The amount  to be invested was £47,802.82. This represented 28% of the underlying 
investors total assets.
The Period Anticipated by Underlying  Investor  was: Five Plus Years.
There were  no investment restrictions or preferences  of underlying investor.
The Underlying Investors investment experience was described as Retail Investor.
In response to the question Explain why investment  in unregulated investments 
would be suitable for the Underlying investor  it said Client requires diversification in 
his [sic] overall investment portfolio and is attracted to the incorrelated  [sic] nature of 
the fixed returns this service offers.
The form also had the following declaration,  which was signed  by the adviser  from Plutus:
INTEMEDIARY DECLARATION
1. We confirm that we consider Greyfriars Discretionary Fund Management Service, and its 
fee of O.5%  (plus VAT) through the Novia Platform, suitable for our client (the Underlying 
Investor).
2. We confirm the Appropriateness  Flowchart for Portfolio Six has been accurately and fully 
completed and the result  confirms the appropriateness of this portfolio and the underlying 
investments for the Underlying Investor.
3. We confirm the objectives  and mandate against  which Portfolio Six will be managed is 
suitable for the risk profile and financial circumstances of the Underlying Investor.
4. We confirm investment  in unregulated  investments  to the proportions  specified in Section 
C {i.e. potentially  up to 100%) above is suitable  for the risk profile, financial circumstances, 
knowledge and experience of the Underlying  Investor.
5. We confirm the selected  tax wrapper is suitable.
6. We confirm that we will undertake a periodic and timely review of the Underlying 
Investor's circumstances and satisfy ourselves the service and the model against which it is 
being managed remains  suitable  given the circumstances.
7. We undertake to instruct a change to an alternative model  portfolio  if the Underlying  
Investor's circumstances change.
8. We confirm that we have undertaken the required anti money laundering due diligence  on 
the Underlying Investor and any Trustees and verified the source of the wealth and will, if 
requested, supply certified copies of such documentation.
9. We confirm that we will ensure on-going  and up to date compliance with the prevailing  
financial crime and money laundering regulations  and confirm  that we will monitor funds 
being added to/or major withdrawals from the service, in accordance  with AML requirements.
10. We confirm that the Underlying Investor  and any Trustees that have entered into this 
agreement are all those  required and authorised  to do so under the trust deed.
11. We confirm the Trustees have placed  no restrictions on the investments that can be held 
within the Scheme.
12. We confirm we have agreed with the Underlying Investor the adviser charge to be paid to 
us.
This declaration was signed by the adviser  from Plutus.
Ref: DRN64808903Mrs M accepted the advice. The portfolio  subsequently  ran into difficulties. When Mrs M tried 
to take her tax-free  cash sum at the age of 55 she found that she could not withdraw any 
money from Portfolio Six.
Mrs M complained about the advice she had received.  Plutus investigated the complaint. 
They did not uphold  the complaint and said:
Mrs M was unable  to take her tax-free  cash because of the poor due diligence by 
Greyfriars in buying the bonds within the portfolio.
The portfolio  was selected  because  it was in line with Mrs Ms attitude to risk. This 
was discussed  with the adviser  and confirmed as a Capital Growth Investor. 
The advice was to invest  in three  areas: 25% in the Vanguard Lifestyle 80% Equity  
Model Portfolio Fund; 36.5% in the Vanguard  Lifestyle 100% Equity Fund; 36.5% in 
the Greyfriars Portfolio Six and 2% in cash.  Portfolio Six was selected for 
diversification in uncorrelated  assets.
Mrs M had confirmed  that she had no issues with the Vanguard funds. She should 
have been able to take tax-free cash from those funds. As she ceased to be a client 
of Plutus  in October 2015  they were unable to help her with the tax-free  cash issue.
The due diligence completed by Plutus confirms that it was suitable for retail clients. 
The situation was caused by Greyfriars not selecting appropriate investments. 
The complaint was referred  to this service. It has been investigated  by one of our 
adjudicators who thought  that it should be upheld.  In summary, he gave the following 
reasons:
Mrs Ms pension  fund was modest. The impact  of any charges would need to be 
justified by increased growth.
The suitability report said that Mrs M wanted to retire at age 55. This was less than 
two years after the advice was given.
The application form said that Mrs M was a retail  investor. The adviser also 
incorrectly referred to her as him.
A Portfolio Six update in November  2015  said it was promoted  to financial advisers 
for clients who are looking to gain access to the diversification of benefits alternative  
assets bring. This did not appear suitable  for Mrs M who was a retail  client.  
Portfolio Six was unsuitable for Mrs Ms need to access tax-free cash  at age 55 as 
some of the bonds were for a five year term.
Plutuss representative replied. He didnt agree with the adjudicator. In summary, he said:
Portfolio Six accounted for about  36.5% of the £130,000 total transferred and 
Invested. She wanted £25,000 for a world cruise. The remainder of her fund was 
more than £100,000 so she could  withdraw the maximum 25% and receive £25,000 
even if Portfolio Six was worthless.
Mrs M declined to provide Plutus with details of her other assets.  So, Plutus group 
was unable to provide  holistic  financial planning.
Nevertheless, Plutus made it clear that it understood Mrs M was not dependent on 
the income from her SIPP  to meet her requirement for £10,000 a year net.
In addition, Mrs M said she had significant  other assets. She told Plutus that her 
home was worth  about £212,000 after deduction of the mortgage.  She also had other  
financial assets. Thats  why a question mark was inserted next to the 28% figure on 
the Portfolio Six application form.
Ref: DRN64808904Mrs Ms assets included £130,000  transferred into the SIPP; her 50% share  of the 
equity in her home; the capitalised value of her two pension  plans and the capitalised  
value of her PHI policy. She also had two investment bonds and a half share in an 
endowment policy.  Taking Mrs Ms total assets  into account  the proportion  
represented by her portfolio six investment was about 9.75%.
The recommendation of Portfolio Six fell within the parameters of Mrs Ms risk profile. 
The process for categorising her as a capital growth investor was set out in the 
suitability letter. Mrs M signed the letter to acknowledge she had understood its 
contents.
Mrs M was correctly  classified as a retail  client. All of Greyfriars clients for this 
service would be classified as retail clients. Mrs M does not have any grounds  to say 
the fund was not suitable for retail clients. And neither does the adjudicator have 
grounds to say that the fund was unsuitable  for retail clients.
In May 2015 Greyfriars was promoting  the Portfolio Six fund on the basis  that it 
contained only standard investments.
It was only in 2017 it became clear that Greyfriars had deviated from its mandate for 
Portfolio Six. The complaint that should  therefore be made against Greyfriars.
Further points also made about Mrs M. She had previously worked in financial 
services. And that she was not unsophisticated  or lacking in understanding.
Five months after Portfolio Six was recommended  Mrs M terminated her relationship  
with Plutus group.  Her new adviser  should have  monitored the investment.
Mrs M was provided with a copy of the response  from Plutuss  representative. She made  the 
following comments:
She gave the figure of £25,000 being  the cost of a world  cruise, but her requirement 
is 25% of the fund which  was reiterated in the suitability letter.
Her Sun Life pension  cannot be taken until age 60 because  of the scheme rules.
Comments that it is okay that Portfolio Six is worthless because  Mrs M has the Sun 
Life pension and can access £25,000  of tax free cash  is preposterous.
Plutus had all of her information  about her financial situation.
She does rely on the SIPP for the standard of living she planned for in retirement.
It was the adviser who completed  the 28% figure on the application. This figure refers 
to the amount invested in the SIPP, not her total wealth.
The attitude to risk questionnaire is completely fraudulent. Mrs M has never  seen this 
before and it bears no resemblance to her risk profile. She required  access to the 
funds at age 55 not in 6 to 10 years time.
Portfolio Six was not suitable for her. She wasnt aware of the investments being  
illiquid.
She is not an expert on pensions. Her background was in commercial  lending.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that Mrs M was not complaining  about  the advice to 
transfer her pension or the other two investments recommended for her. I then explained my 
conclusions that Plutus  was only advising  on the SIPP. The investment advice had to be in 
context of the assets within  the SIPP. Mrs M wanted to have  access  to the tax-free cash 
from her pension at age 55. This was to pay for a world cruise and use the balance to 
reduce her mortgage.  I concluded that Portfolio Six was not suitable  for Mrs M. She wanted 
to take her pension benefits at age 55. The assets  in Portfolio Six could be illiquid meaning 
that Mrs M would not be able to take her tax-free  cash from those investments. I thought  the 
investment should  have  been made in more secure  assets to enable Mrs M to take her 
benefits.
Ref: DRN64808905Plutuss representative didnt agree. They said the provisional decision was not fair and 
reasonable. It could  only have  been  reached with the benefit of hindsight;  ignoring the 
market view and analysis  of Greyfriars carried out by Plutus; and ignored the law on scope 
of duty. In particular,  they said:
They consider  I had erred in my approach  that the investment advice must be 
construed in the context of the SIPP. The advice was provided in the context of 
Mrs Ms assets as a whole, which were  included in the suitability report. These were 
valued at about  £500,000. The investment of 9.75% in Portfolio Six was not 
excessive.
They explained why Portfolio Six was suitable  in their submissions of 20 June and 
27 July 2018.  Although the declaration on the Portfolio Six application form allowed 
up to 100% to be invested in unregulated investments the requirements  were that 
Portfolio Six invest in investments that were  suitable  for retail investors; standard 
investments and in line with Mrs Ms attitude to risk. Plutus had no reason to suspect 
that Portfolio Six was not being managed  in this way. The losses  have been caused 
by Greyfriars mismanaging the fund. And the investments were liquid during the 
period Plutus were  retained  as Mrs Ms adviser.
Plutus can only be responsible for losses that occurred up until the point Mrs M 
terminated her retainer with Plutus as her financial adviser. There  are three 
intervening causes of action  that break the connection between the actions of Plutus 
and the losses  suffered  by Mrs M:
1.Mrs M terminated  the retainer with Plutus  in November 2015. Plutus was then 
relieved of any duty to monitor the investments. 
2.Mrs M appointed a new adviser failed to review the suitability  of Portfolio Six 
and advise her to withdraw from it.
3.Mrs M has also caused  her own loss. She engaged a new adviser.  She then 
had a number  of options. These were to re-engage Plutus to advise on the 
suitability of Portfolio  Six. Or she could sell her holdings. 
It is also clear  that even if Plutus had given advice to Mrs M to sell Portfolio Six that 
she would have  kept it anyway, as that is what she has done.
Although they do not accept that Plutus  should be liable  for the losses,  Plutuss 
representatives also made some comments about fair compensation. These were:
Plutus should not be responsible for investment losses  suffered after their retainer  
was terminated  in November 2015.
Mrs M must give credit for the income tax that would have been payable  on the 
losses allegedly suffered by the SIPP once converted into taxable income.
A deduction must be applied for the commission that would have been paid, even if 
suitable advice  had been given.
All of the investments  were recommended  as part of an overall strategy. Some  have 
performed well. Mrs M should not be allowed to cherry pick those investments that 
have not performed well.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
the complaint  should be upheld for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN64808906The basis  on which Plutus was giving advice to Mrs M was set out in its suitability report.  In 
my view, this clearly limited  the scope of the advice to the assets in the SIPP.  
Mrs M was relying on advice from Plutus.  I accept that she had previous experience  of 
working in financial  services. But this did not include any experience of investments or 
pensions. The assets in the SIPP formed a large part of her overall wealth. These  were  an 
important part of her retirement planning.  My reading of the documentation for Portfolio Six is 
that it is intended for experienced  investors.  I am satisfied that Mrs M was not an 
experienced professional investor.  Portfolio  Six was unsuitable  for her. 
Mrs Ms objectives were also set out in the suitability  report.  One of these  was to be able to 
take the tax-free cash at age 55. The literature  for Portfolio Six also made it clear that the 
fund could be invested entirely  in unregulated  assets.  It should  have been apparent  that this 
meant the assets  may not be liquid when Mrs M wanted to take her pension benefits.
The losses  suffered by Mrs M are as a result of advice  from Plutus  to invest  in Portfolio  Six. I 
do not agree  that any losses suffered should  cease because Mrs M cancelled  the retainer for 
Plutus to give ongoing  advice.  She remained invested and suffered loss because of the 
advice given by Plutus.
I have considered whether Mrs M took reasonable steps after November 2015 to deal with 
any loss. I understand  that she did appoint new advisers; but these could not advise on 
Portfolio Six. Mrs M did complain about the investments in Portfolio Six and I dont think  it is 
unreasonable that she did not seek further  advice from Plutus. Im not persuaded that there 
is anything unusual in doing so or that there was any duty for her to seek  further advice from 
Plutus. An alternative would be to seek  out an adviser that could, and was prepared to, 
advise on Portfolio Six. I think it was reasonable for Mrs M to simply complain to Plutus 
about the investments. I am therefore  satisfied that the losses  incurred by Mrs M have been 
caused by the advice  given by Plutus.
I have set out the approach to fair compensation below. This is the same as that set out in 
my provisional decision. I do not agree that any investment losses suffered  after 
November 2015  should be excluded. Thats because Mrs M would not have been  in Portfolio 
Six, if Plutus had given  suitable advice.
An allowance for the tax position of any benefits  Mrs M will receive is allowed for in the 
calculation of fair compensation. But I have not made any allowance for commission  would 
have been paid. Thats because Plutus has received  the commission. And calculation  of fair 
compensation is to put Mrs M in the position she would be in if Plutus had given suitable 
advice.
I accept that Plutus gave  advice on all of the assets  within the SIPP.  But the other  two funds 
appear to me to be suitable. I am therefore  only considering  the investment that has been 
complained about and which I have  concluded was unsuitable.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs M should be put as closely as possible into the position  she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice. I think Mrs M would have invested 
differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what she would have done, but Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs M's circumstances and objectives  
when she invested.
Ref: DRN64808907 
what should  Gate Capital do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Gate Capital must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
If there is a loss, Gate Capital should  pay a sum into Mrs M's pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount 
paid should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If Gate Capital is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs M's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct  to her. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement.  Mrs M is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement. The reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as 
Mrs M would  have  been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should  be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mrs M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss to her pension  
fund. This has been aggravated because  she couldn't access  her pension fund when 
she intended to take her benefits.
Gate Capital should add interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest paid. If Gate Capital deducts  income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs M how 
much has been taken off. Gate Capital should give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate  if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Portfolio 
Sixstill existsaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple a 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement 
Ref: DRN64808908actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Gate  
Capital should  take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Gate Capital is unable to buy the investment the actual value should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. Gate  Capital may require  Mrs M to provide  an undertaking to 
pay Gate Capital  any amount  she may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the sum 
from the pension  plan. Gate Capital  will need  to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Gate  Capital 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  calculation  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there are a large  number  of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gate Capital totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.  
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted  to have access to her tax free cash  sum. It was important that she had 
access to her capital with little risk in the short term.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mrs M's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt  mean that Mrs M would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. Its the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained 
with little risk to their capital. 
Ref: DRN64808909my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Gate Capital Group Ltd must now calculate and pay compensation 
as set out above. Details of the calculation should be sent to Mrs M in a clear simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6480890