K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc didnt deal with his mortgage application properly and 
unfairly refused  it. Mr K wants to know why Santander refused his mortgage application and 
compensation for the loss of wages involved in arranging to attend a cancelled  appointment.
background
Mr K wanted  a mortgage and made  an appointment with a Santander  adviser in May 2018. 
On the day of the appointment,  Santander  rang about 9am to cancel the appointment. Later  
Mr K arranged a phone appointment on a different day with Santander at 3.00 pm but as he 
had heard nothing, texted Santander  at 3.30 pm. The adviser returned the text to say that he 
would be an additional  twenty minutes. During that phone appointment the mortgage adviser 
said that Mr K didnt meet the eligibility requirements and the application didnt  proceed. 
Mr K complained and Santander wrote to him on 4 July 2018 to say that the appointment in 
the branch had to be cancelled due to unforeseen circumstances and accepted that the 
arrangement for the phone appointment was late and Mr K had to chase it. Santander  also 
dealt with another complaint in that letter about  information on Mr Ks credit  card balance. It 
offered Mr K £80 compensation  for poor service. It suggested that if Mr K wanted to discuss  
the declined mortgage application that he should  discuss it with Santanders  mortgage  team  
and gave him their number. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt it was 
reasonable to expect  customers  to make time to deal with their financial affairs  and that 
compensation would be inappropriate.  Mr K disagreed and asked for a review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The initial complaint concerns the appointment Mr K made  with the Santander  adviser to 
discuss his mortgage  application. Mr K is unhappy  that the appointment was cancelled  at 
short notice as he was told about  the cancellation by phone  at 9 am on the morning of the 
appointment. Mr K would like to be compensated for his loss of wages for taking the day off 
work. In looking at the complaint we were told that the reason  for the cancelation was that 
the adviser was ill that day. But Mr K attended  the Santander branch on the day and met the 
adviser. 
When we raised this issue with Santander  we got a statement from the adviser to that one of 
his children was ill and he couldnt  meet all his appointments  that day. So he says that he 
contacted his appointments for the day as soon  as he could.  He says that he contacted Mr K 
early in the morning  and offered him alternative  appointments.
Mr K went  into the branch  and got an alternative phone appointment. The adviser says they 
booked an appointment later in the week. Mr K complains  that when the day of the 
appointment came that the adviser  contacted him later than the agreed time and only after 
he made further contact  with the adviser.  
Ref: DRN68462572This is a regrettable situation where Mr K had arranged an appointment, had taken time off 
work and was disappointed to be told that the appointment  couldnt go ahead. But, the 
adviser seems to have  had a good reason to cancel the appointment and seems to have 
contacted Mr K at the earlies opportunity.  Unfortunately  cancellations will happen from time 
to time but I dont  believe that it gives rise to an occasion whereby Santander would be 
expected to compensate Mr K. Again, although the re-arranged appointment was late, it was 
conducted on the afternoon it was arranged to be held and I dont believe that the delay was 
such to that Mr K would  reasonably expect to be compensated.
Mr K says that during this conversation Santander  refused to consider his application  
because of a credit check which was unfair as his credit was good. The mortgage advisers 
recollection of the call was that it turned out that Santander wouldnt be able to assist Mr K 
based on the circumstances of the application  and what he was trying to achieve.
Unfortunately as the phone call didnt  proceed  to an application there is no phone  record of 
this call. Mr K says that he was refused after a credit check. Mr K has produced  evidence  of 
a credit check done on 31 May 2018. Santander  says that this isnt a credit check  but an Anti 
Money Laundering  (AML) check. Santander says that this AML check  wasnt  done for the 
purposes of the mortgage but by the banking team because of a large  deposit  made  by Mr K 
to his account. Mr K says that this is unlikely as he had the funds in his account  for nearly  a 
year.
I cant be certain what day the phone appointment was. Mr K obtained his phone  records but 
hasnt yet told me what they disclose. Mr K says that the original missed appointment was 
on 21 May 2018 although Santander records it as 14 May.  The mortgage adviser said that 
the phone  appointment was arranged for an afternoon during the week  following. Mr K says 
that the phone appointment was likely  to have happened on the 23 May or 30 May. 
Santander says it didnt perform a credit check and that the AML check on 31 May wasnt 
related to the mortgage application. Mr K believes that it was the reason Santander didnt go 
ahead with it. But if this was a credit check  and it was held after the phone appointment 
which at the latest  happened on 30 May,  it couldnt be the reason that Mr Ks application 
terminated with the phone  appointment. So, I cant agree with Mr K that a credit check led to 
his application  not proceeding.
I have listened  to Mr Ks call with Santander  on 28 June  and hear his frustration with the 
service he got from Santander.  But for the reasons set out above, I cant  fairly uphold this 
complaint. I will leave  it to Mr K if he wishes to accept the £80 offered by Santander but I 
dont believe  that any further compensation is due.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6846257