K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1990 
alongside a secured loan.  Mrs C and the late Mr Cs complaint is that Yorkshire Building 
Society (YBS) mis-sold them the policy. 
To keep  things simple,  and in the hope  that Mrs C wont mind,  Ill refer to the late Mr C as 
Mr C throughout this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with YBS in 1987 but PPI was not taken out at this time.  
Then in 1990,  when  Mr and Mrs C took out a loan secured against their property, PPI was 
sold to them to cover  the monthly loan repayments.  The policy was cancelled  in 2000, upon 
the repayment of their loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Cs have said that the PPI was added without them knowing. But Ive seen a 
copy of their loan application form which included a section for PPI. In this section there is a 
tick in the box to show that they wished to apply for cover for Mr C only  as the first named 
applicant for the loan.  Mr C and Mrs C signed  the application form to consent to the 
information included  within  it. Ive also seen a copy of the credit agreement  which  followed,  
and I think its likely  Mr and Mrs C were given a copy of this agreement at the time. This 
listed the details  of the loan and PPI. And there  is both a yes and no option for PPI here, 
and an x has been printed in the yes box - to show that Mr and Mrs C had chosen to take 
PPI. So based  on all the evidence Ive seen,  I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve been aware of 
the PPI at the time and they chose to take it out in Mr Cs name  only - knowing it was 
something they didnt  have  to have.
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if PPI was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs C got the information they needed to decide  if 
the policy was right for them.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the time (as the insured person) 
it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, 
taking into account  that he was self-employed  at the time. So it would  have been  useful  for 
him if something went wrong.  And so I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN68454142Ive also taken into account what Mr and Mrs C have said about being able to keep up their 
mortgage repayments if Mr C was unable to work. But based on what Ive seen I still think 
the policy couldve been useful for them. I say this because Mr and Mrs C have said that 
they wouldve  been able to rely on their savings;  help from family; and also wouldve been 
able to sell some of their personal  items  in order to keep up their monthly repayments. But 
the evidence available  shows that they had other debts to maintain at the time, as well as 
having ongoing household expenses.  And they were  taking out additional borrowing on top 
of their mortgage, so I think its unlikely  they had enough savings at the time to cover their 
current needs. Mr and Mrs C have also referred to family who couldve supported them.  But 
help from others cant always be guaranteed, as their circumstances can also change  over 
time. The PPI policy couldve covered their monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months in 
the event Mr C was suddenly unable to work. Meaning they didnt need to rely on others or 
sell their possessions to keep up their repayments  if Mr C wasnt  working. So I think  they 
wouldve found this policy useful if they had needed  to claim.
Mr and Mrs C have said that if theyd  known about  the PPI they wouldve claimed on the 
policy when Mr C was off work with a medical  condition. However, as Ive already outlined  
above I think Mr and Mrs C were  aware of the PPI at the time they took it out. Its possible 
that when Mr C was out of work  they had forgotten they had the policy in place, but this isnt 
YBSs fault. So I cant fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint on this point as this doesnt 
mean YBS did anything  wrong in selling  them the policy.  
Overall I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.  So YBS doesnt need to refund everything  Mr and 
Mrs C paid for it. But YBS has already offered to give back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. YBS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs C on 
behalf of herself  and the late Mr C now that Ive issued  my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision on behalf of herself and the late Mr C before 23 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6845414