K822xcomplaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy attached  to a loan.
Mr B took out a loan with Lloyds in 2004  and at the same time he was sold a PPI policy to 
protect his repayments.  
The PPI was paid for upfront by Mr B borrowing more. The loan was for £4,000 and the PPI 
cost a further £712  so he borrowed £4,712 in total and the PPI would have cost more with 
interest over the full term of the loan. This type of policy is called a single premium PPI 
policy.
The PPI policy would  have covered  the monthly loan repayment for a maximum of 12 
months for any one unemployment claim.  The policy would have paid out for the remaining 
term of the loan if Mr B wasnt  able to work  because of sickness  or accident. It would have 
also paid off the loan if he died.
Mr B, through his representative,  complained to Lloyds that PPI had been  mis-sold.
Lloyds in its response to Mr B disagreed  and said it didnt  think  the PPI had been mis-sold.
Unhappy Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Since the complaint has been  with our service Lloyds has changed its stance  on Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Lloyds said that it now considered that it hadnt  made it clear to Mr B how much interest 
would be charged  on the single premium  policy so the cost and ongoing cost of the single 
premium PPI policy wasnt fully disclosed to him at the time of the sale. 
But Lloyds said apart from the problem about  the way the PPI policy  was paid for, it 
considered PPI was suitable for Mr B. 
Lloyds thought PPI would have been a suitable  product for Mr B if hed paid for it on a 
month-by-month basis by taking out a regular  premium  PPI policy. These types of policies 
dont attract  any interest, can be cancelled at any time and a consumer doesnt  have  to pay 
anything more after its cancelled.  
So Lloyds offered to pay back the difference in cost between what Mr B actually  paid for the 
single premium policy and what he would have paid if he took out a regular premium policy 
instead.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought the type of PPI policy sold 
wasnt suitable for the same reasons that Lloyds  gave.  So they thought Lloyds  offer of the 
difference between  what  the single premium PPI cover cost him in total and what  a regular 
monthly policy would have cost was fair. 
Mr B disagreed. As the matter hasnt been resolved Ive been  asked  to consider the 
complaint and issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN63600442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
was Mr B given a fair choice to take out PPI?
Lloyds says the loan application  and PPI were taken  during a telephone call. Lloyds doesnt 
have a copy of the call recording but it has provided  some documents from the time of sale.  
Ive been given a copy of the loan agreement signed and dated by Mr B. The loan 
agreement is pre-printed with Mr Bs name, address and the respective details of the loan. 
So I think its likely Mr B spoke with an adviser  who then entered in the details of their 
conversation, printed  and sent the agreement for him to sign.  
On the loan agreement there is a section for PPI, with yes or no boxes. There  is a pre-
printed X in the yes box. I think it was added as a result of the conversation  Mr B had with 
the adviser. If Mr B hadnt chosen PPI, I would have expected him to challenge why this had 
been agreed to or added to his loan before he signed for it. 
Overall I think  its more  likely than not that Mr B was aware he had a choice about  taking  out 
the PPI policy  and he chose to do so. Although I can understand why he cant remember this 
as the sale was a long time ago and typically  buying insurance isnt a very memorable 
experience. 
was PPI suitable for Mr B?
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it had to check if the cover was right for him. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the times  of the sale,  I think the benefits  it 
could have paid out were  useful for him.
Mr B says he didnt need the policy. He says although he was self-employed, he received  
some sick pay if he was unable to work. He also says he had some  additional  workers  that 
worked for him that meant he would still receive  an income even if he was unable to work.  
But, in the event of a successful claim,  the PPI policy would have paid the monthly cost of 
the loan for a maximum of 12 months  per unemployment claim. And it would have paid out 
for the remaining term of the loan if Mr B wasnt  able to work because of sickness  or 
accident. It would have also paid off the loan if he died. 
And the policy would  have  paid out over any above  any employee benefits Mr B may have 
received, so those  benefits could have been  used for other  essential  outgoings.  
As Mr B was self-employed Ive looked  closely at the terms to see what  was required of him 
to claim for unemployment.  Having  done  so I can see that they do not make it harder than 
what would  be expected of an employed  person  to successfully claim. So I dont think  this 
makes the policy  unsuitable  for Mr B or the recommendation unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN63600443All things  considered I think the PPI offered valuable protection  if Mr B wasnt  able to work 
for a lengthy  period.
But Mr B wouldve got back  only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if he cancelled  the 
policy early.  I dont  know if Lloyds thought  about this when it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mr B. But I havent seen anything to suggest that this was 
Mr Bs intentions  at the point of sale. So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt  right for 
him  or that better information about  this wouldve stopped him buying it. 
was Mr B given information  that was clear, fair and not misleading?
Lloyds had to give Mr B clear, fair and not misleading information so that he could make an 
informed choice about whether to take out PPI. The loan and the sale of the PPI took place 
during a telephone call, so I dont  know  exactly what Mr B was told when he took out the 
loan and policy, but Ive looked  at the documents  that have been provided. I think  theyre 
likely to be a good reflection of what was discussed.  Based  on what  Ive seen I think that 
Lloyds could have  given clearer information  about  PPI.
On the loan agreement,  Lloyds has set out the upfront cost of PPI and the monthly  cost of 
PPI, taking into account the interest  charged. But it hasnt set out the total amount of the 
interest that would have  been charged  on the extra borrowed  for PPI if the loan ran to term. 
Its possible there were other  things  about the policy that Lloyds didnt explain to Mr B as 
clearly as it should have  done. But I dont think he would have acted differently if hed known 
more about the policys  significant exclusions and limitations.
what has Lloyds offered and is it fair?
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out rules and guidance  on how businesses  
should look at complaints  about PPI. The FCA has set out circumstances where, if a policy  
with a single  premium was mis-sold, and a business thinks that person would have bought a 
regular premium policy instead, the business may put that person in the position they would 
have been in if theyd bought a regular premium  policy. This involves refunding the 
difference between  two types of policy, and this type of refund is called alternative redress 
(AR). 
This is the offer Lloyds  has made to Mr B for this PPI policy. And the FCA said once this type 
of offer was made, a business didnt have to do anything else to fairly resolve  the complaint. 
The FCA says a business can offer AR when  the business:
recommended a policy, that did not offer a proportional refund of the single premium,  
without considering if the consumer might want to repay  or refinance the loan early.
didnt tell the consumer they would not receive a proportional refund of the single 
premium amount if they repaid or refinanced the loan early or;
didnt tell the consumer the premium would be added to the loan, that it would  attract 
interest and what that interest would be or;
didnt tell the consumer the term of the policy  was shorter  than the term of the loan 
and;
Ref: DRN63600444there was nothing else wrong  with how the PPI was sold that would mean the 
consumer would  have  bought a regular premium policy. 
Having looked  at what happened  with the sale of PPI on Mr Bs loan, I think  the only mistake 
made when  Lloyds sold the single  premium policy was covered by the AR guidance. Apart 
from that, I think the policy was suitable for him. 
Put simply, Lloyds  says PPI would have  been  suitable for Mr B if hed paid for it on a month-
by-month basis. And for the reasons Ive given above, I agree. 
So I think its fair for Lloyds to refund the difference between the amount Mr B paid for his 
single premium PPI policy  and the amount he would  have paid if hed had a regular premium 
policy instead. And it doesnt  need to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Lloyds Bank  PLCs  offer of alternative  redress is fair. 
I direct  Lloyds  Bank PLC to update its offer and pay Mr Bs compensation if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6360044