K820x#14complaint
Mr Es complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC unfairly turned down his 
mechanical breakdown  insurance claim.  
background
Mr E called Amtrust to claim after his car lost power  It asked him to take his car to a garage 
so the fault could be diagnosed. The garage said the car needed  new injectors. Amtrust said 
these werent covered  by the policy.
The garage also said the cars  clutch  had jammed and it needed  to replace the clutch,  slave  
cylinders and flywheel. Amtrust said it needed to know what had caused  the failure so it 
could check whether this part of the claim was covered by the policy.
The repairing  garage said there were marks on the flywheel  and pressure plate as the 
friction plate was worn.  Amtrust said this was due to wear and tear. It said the policy  covered 
sudden mechanical  breakdown  excluding wear and tear. So, it turned down Mr Es claim. 
Mr E remained unhappy  and brought the complaint  to us. He was unhappy with Amtrust  
turning down his claim and the time it had taken to deal with it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Es complaint should  be upheld. She thought it was fair for 
Amtrust to turn down his claim  on the basis that the failure was due to wear and tear given 
the age and mileage of Mr Es car. And she thought it was reasonable that Amtrust wanted 
to find out what  had caused  the failure  before  deciding whether the claim was covered. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said the garage  told him the gearbox had jammed and this was 
supported by the diagnostics report. He said neither  the diagnostics report nor the invoice  
refers to wear and tear. And that jammed means something is stuck  or seized. He said 
Amtrusts recommendation was based on information given  by someone in the office of the 
garage and not an engineer. Mr E asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Es made a number  of detailed points. Ive considered  all of them  but am going  to focus 
my decision  on what  I see as the central issues to this complaint.  I dont intend  this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it. 
Mr Es policy  covers  his car for the unexpected  breakdown of named parts. It defines 
breakdown as: 
the sudden and unexpected failure  of a Component arising from any permanent  mechanical 
or electrical  defect (for a reason  other  than Wear or Tear,  normal  deterioration or 
negligence) causing a sudden stoppage of its function, necessitating immediate repair or 
replacement of the Component before normal operation can be resumed. 
Injectors arent named as a covered  part in the policy.  So, as the policy doesnt cover 
injectors I think it was reasonable for Amtrust  to turn down that part of the claim.
Ref: DRN67219922The clutch, slave cylinder and flywheel are named as covered parts, so Ive looked  to see if 
Amtrust fairly decided  that the fault didnt meet the definition  of a breakdown. 
Many parts of a car will wear over time,  so we only think its fair for an insurer  to turn down  a 
mechanical breakdown  insurance claim for wear and tear when a part has come  to the end 
of its expected life. In Mr Es case I can see his car was over seven years  old and had done 
over 94,000 miles. 
Amtrusts claim  notes show that the garage told Amtrust there were marks on the flywheel 
and pressure plate  as the friction plate had worn.  And that in places it was on the rivets. This 
would explain why the failure was most  likely caused by wear or natural deterioration. I can 
see that the garages diagnosis report says the clutch  jammed  and lists the faults. But it 
doesnt explain why it jammed or what caused the failure. I havent been provided with any 
further engineering evidence  from Mr E to show it was most  likely not caused  by wear and 
tear. So, when considering the garages  explanation, along with the age and mileage of     
Mr Es car. I think Amtrusts conclusion that the failure was due to wear and tear was 
reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr Es point  that when something jams  it stops working and this happened 
suddenly. I accept there was a sudden and unexpected failure. But for the claim to succeed 
Id also need to accept that this wasnt as a result of wear and tear or normal  deterioration. 
And for the reasons Ive explained above, I think the failure was most  likely as a result of 
wear and tear. This means  the failure doesnt  meet the definition of sudden  mechanical 
breakdown.
I understand Mr Es concerned that the person who spoke to Amtrust from the garage might 
not be an engineer.  But I dont think this matters, because I think its likely this person  has 
provided information on behalf  of the garage. Mr E also hasnt provided anything  from the 
garage to say the person  that Amtrust spoke to didnt represent its view. 
Ive also considered the time it took Amtrust  to deal with the claim and that it needed to know  
the cause of the faults before it would agree to repairs.  I can see this took longer  than Mr E 
would have liked but I cant hold Amtrust responsible for any delays at the repairing garage.  I 
also think it was reasonable for Amtrust to want to know  what caused the failure in order  to 
consider whether the claim was valid under the policy. 
I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr E. Hes explained that hes never had a car 
breakdown and doesnt think  hes at fault for this one. My decision that its fair for Amtrust to 
decline his claim, isnt on the basis  that hes caused  the failure, only that the part has most 
likely reached the end of its expected lifespan,  due to wear and tear or normal deterioration.
In summary,  Im satisfied  Amtrust has made a fair and reasonable decision thats in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN67219923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6721992