K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about the service Gain Capital  UK Limited (trading as Barclays CFD) 
provided to him through his trading account. 
background
Mr I opened a CFD trading account with Gain in 2014. His complaint  to us incorporates  
several separate complaints about  specific events that occurred from 2014 through to June  
2017 and Gain  has provided various responses  to these  complaints.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In short I found  that:
Gain wasnt responsible for training Mr I on the platform and didnt make technical  
changes that affected his trading.
Gain hadnt done anything wrong in closing down the various trades  Mr I had referred 
to because his margin fell below the close-out  level.
Gain provided an execution only service to Mr I and didnt manipulate his trades as 
he suggested.
Gain hadnt been dismissive of his complaints but dealt with these reasonably.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to take into account.  Gain said it didnt  have anything  further  to add. Mr I didnt 
agree with my provisional decision and provided  a significant number of documents in 
response. The documents are contract  notes, monthly statements, requests to withdraw  
cash from his account, and email correspondence  about the various  issues he has raised. A 
large number of the documents were provided  by him previously and are documents  I took 
into account before drafting my provisional decision. 
Mr I hasnt made comments  on any specific  complaint  I have made findings on but has made 
some general comments about  his trading.  He said he didnt intend trading CFD as a full 
time business so didnt  involve himself in the intricacies and technicalities of Barclays  CFD. 
He said as time went on he noticed  issues  of a technical nature which  he says he took up 
with Barclays CFD. He said he was aware of the high risks of CFD trading and that he 
managed his risks so well his trading  business grew beyond his expectations. He refers  to 
having unusual  experiences that compelled  him to seek help from our service. He says the 
documents he has sent show  his trading activities with Barclays  CFD which he hopes  will 
help answer some of the issues raised  in the reports he has read to date. He queries 
whether the fact that Gains is a Market  Maker may explain some of the issues  he has had.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the documents  Mr I sent in response to my provisional decision as well 
as all the information already available there  is no persuasive  evidence  in support of any of 
the complaints  he has made and there is nothing in the documents that would lead me to 
change the findings I made in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN66382242In short  I think it is more  likely than not that the various issues Mr I identified between  2014 
and 2017 were as a result of the ordinary operation of the trading account  he opened with 
Gain and the terms that applied  to that account.  They were  not because  Gain  closed trades 
when it shouldnt have  done, manipulated his account, failed to provide training it shouldve  
done or did anything else it shouldnt have  done.
Mr I has questioned whether Gain being a Market Maker could explain some  of the issues  
he has had. If Mr I was looking at market  information from someone other than Gain it might  
explain why he has questioned what happened  with regard to some of his trades. But that 
isnt the result of Gain doing anything wrong.  The pricing of trades based on Gains  Our 
Price is set out in the terms  of the trading account Mr I opened as I explained  in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above  and in my 
provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66382243COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr I complains about the service Gain Capital UK Limited (trading  as Barclays CFDs) has provided to 
him through his trading account.  
background
Mr I opened a CFD trading  account with Gain in 2014. His complaint to us incorporates several 
separate complaints  about specific  events that occurred  from 2014 through  to June  2017 and Gain  
has provided  various responses to these complaints. His account was suspended in January 2018 
after which he was not able to make any further trades.
 
Mr I made various  specific complaints to Gain about certain trades he has made and what it had done 
in relation to those trades. In his complaint to us Mr I summarised his complaint on the basis that 
Gain:
Allowed him to trade on its platform  without  providing  the training  or support he needed to 
trade successfully. 
Made technical changes to its trading platform without informing him and when he 
experienced difficulties  it didnt address  the problem.
Has shot down his open trades suddenly  and without warning under  uncertain circumstances  
and no compensation has been offered even when it was clear there was an error.
States it is an execution only provider but it has monitored his account  and trades have been 
made to his detriment.
When he has contacted Gain to discuss the issue he has had it has been dismissive.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and in short made the following  findings:
The rules we have to apply mean we are not able to consider a complaint made  more than six 
months from when a business sends a final response letter to the person complaining.
Most of Mr Is complaints were referred to us too late as they were referred  more than six 
months after the final response  letters sent by Gain.
Mr Is complaints about the CFD trades on 16 June 2017 and the pricing  of a trade on 21 
June 2017 were complaints we could consider. 
The closing of trades on a margin call is highly automated and either there is margin  or there 
isnt so she didnt think Gain  had done  anything wrong with regard to closing his open 
positions on 16 June  2017. And the price his trade was placed  at on 21 June 2017 was 
checked against other  sources and was right. 
Mr I didnt agree with the adjudicator  so the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator didnt consider the merits of the complaints Mr I had made before June 2017 as she 
thought those  complaints had been referred to us too late. This was because she thought  they hadnt 
been referred to us within six months of the final response letters  sent by Gain - as the rules  under  
which we operate require. 
But to be final responses the letters had to comply  with certain  requirements set out in the rules. Im 
not satisfied  they did so and this was explained  to Gain who agreed that we could consider the merits 
of all the complaints  Mr I had referred to us. 
Ref: DRN66382244Mr Is complaint to us has been made under general headings some of which apply to more than one 
of the actual  complaints he made to Gain about specific trades.  I have considered the specific 
complaints he made to Gain but these encompass the more general complaint  points he has referred  
to.
 
Gain took too long to close a trade on 22 August 2014 and on 26 August  2014 closed  sell positions  on 
another trade when he didnt want it to. 
With regard to 22 August Mr I said he closed  a trade which shouldve provided a profit of between  
£350 and £450 but because it took so long to close he only made £250.
I have seen no persuasive  evidence that Gain did anything wrong  in the closing  of Mr Is trade.  Prices 
with regard  to CFD can fluctuate significantly over short periods of time and Im not satisfied that Gain  
delayed closing his position  or was responsible  for any reduction in profit  suffered  by Mr I.
With regard to 26 August Mr I said that he had open positions to sell Glaxosmithkline shares  which 
were then closed as a result of him placing a buy order for the same shares. He said he then placed 
another sell order which meant he was left with 1200  shares to sell and none to buy which prevented 
him from taking the profit he expected form share price  increases. He also said the same problem  
arose in his Compass Group CFD trades which left him with 1500 sell positions and which meant he 
lost all his profit.
He said the problems that had arisen were because he wasnt  trained in the new platform so he 
wasnt aware of any facilities that mightve been available to avoid what happened.
But the way his open positions were closed by placing an opposite trade is set out in Gains general  
terms which he agreed to when opening his account. In particular the general terms explains that an 
open position  can be closed either fully or partly by placing an opposite  trade.  And this is what 
happened when Mr I placed buy orders on 26 August when he already had sell positions open. When  
Gain emailed  Mr I on 28 August 2014  to explain this Gain also said that it had closed all of his 
positions because his margin had fallen below  the 80% margin requirement.
When Mr I opened his account he had to complete an appropriateness questionnaire  in which he 
confirmed he had regularly  traded CFDs, futures,  options  or margined foreign  exchange  in the past 12 
months. He also agreed it was his responsibility  to monitor his account  and consider using tools  such  
as stop losses to help reduce his potential  loss and that he understood that small movements in the 
market can result in trades incurring larger  profits or losses. 
He also told Gain in 2014 that he had attended Stock Exchange workshops,  Stock Trading seminars  
and training on Spreadbetting,  CFDs and Forex trading provided by various  providers. 
I note that Mr I said the platforms  he had previously come across didnt operate  the same as Gains 
new platform   in particular he said that on other platforms  he had been able to hold both buy and sell 
positions in the same  shares at the same  time. 
But I dont think there was any requirement for Gain to provide training.  Given  his answers to the 
appropriateness questionnaire there was no reason for it to think the account wasnt appropriate for 
him. 
And Gain did actually provide access to a demo platform. Mr I has said this wasnt the same as its 
actual platform but hasnt provided  any explanation  as to what was different.  So he has not provided 
any evidence that he could place opposing trades on the demo platform  that wouldnt cancel each 
other out in contrast to what happened to the actual trades he complained about. 
It was for Mr I to make sure he understood the terms of the account and how it worked.  If he had read 
the terms as he shouldve done  it wouldve been clear that he couldnt  hold both buy and sell positions 
in the same shares at the same  time and that one would cancel out the other. 
Ref: DRN66382245Gain closed all of his positions on 4 October 2016 when he had sufficient margin
Mr I complained about Gain  closing his open  position when he believes he had sufficient margin. He 
said when he looked at his platform  at around 13.00 he was satisfied there was enough resources to 
keep all of his positions open  but that when he returned  at 14.10  he found  Gain  had closed his open 
positions. He said the margin indicator was showing  more  than 130 at the time he looked  at 13.00 so 
he thinks he was misled by the trading values  showing  at that time.
Gain provide  a risk warning  notice to clients in its general  terms which  warns that if the client doesnt 
hold sufficient  funds to meet their margin requirements  it may close the clients open positions  without 
warning. Mr I will already  have been aware of this as Gain had closed his open trades in 2014 when 
he didnt have  sufficient margin.
Clause 10 of its general  terms also states  that:
If the margin level for your account reaches or falls below the Margin  Close  Out Level this will be 
classified as an event of default under clause  16. In such circumstances we may, among other things, 
(i) close  all or nay of your open positions immediately  and without  notice, and/or (ii) refuse to execute  
new trades until your Margin Level is 100%  or greater. It is your responsibility  to monitor your 
account(s) at all times and to maintain  your margin  level above the margin close out level.  We will 
close your open positions  at our price  prevailing at the time when the open positions  are closed.
So Gain was entitled  to close any or all of Mr Is open positions if his margin level fell below the 
margin close  out level  which was 80%.
From the information I have  seen he had a margin  requirement of £775.26 at the time with available 
equity of £616.64 which means  he had 79.5%  of his margin requirement. As this was below the 
margin close  out level Gain was entitled to close his open positions and did nothing  wrong in doing 
so. There  was no requirement for it to give notice to Mr I and it was his responsibility  to monitor his 
account to make sure his margin level was sufficient.
I note Mr I has suggested  that the pricing at 13.00 must have been  wrong because his margin  level at 
that time was showing more  than 130. But I think this simply reflects how quickly prices  can change  
when carrying out CFD trading. It is for him to keep an eye on his trades and margin level. By his own 
admission he didnt look at what was happening for a period of well over an hour. That is a significant  
period of time when prices  can fluctuate  rapidly.
His account wasnt execution  only as Gain  said it was, as it was marked and monitored  and his open 
positions are managed so that he doesnt make a profit.
Mr I complained about this in February 2017. He referred specifically to having  gone short on Fresnillo 
in December 2016 and said that the price had been manipulated  so that he had to keep adding funds 
which are rapidly  consumed to avoid the 80% closure threat. He said that even when the price  had 
gone down it stopped at a level where he had not made any profit.  He suggested  that the rest of the 
market was falling whilst Fresnillo  kept going  up in price.
In its response to the complaint Gain explained that Mr I traded on its Our Price as defined  in its 
terms and that this is derived  from the underlying  share prices provided  by recognised investment 
exchanges. Our Price  is explained in clause  5.1 of Gains term as follows:
During Market  Hours  we will quote  two prices  for the Market, a higher  price (Our Offer Price) and a 
lower price (Our Bid Price); together these prices are known as Our Price for a Market. Our Price is 
determined by reference  to the price of the underlying  instrument which is quoted on external 
securities exchange  or dealing facilities that we select  at our discretion.  For trades executed when the 
relevant exchange or dealing facility is closed or where  there is no exchange or dealing facility, Our 
Price will reflect what we consider the market  price  of the underlying instrument is at that time.  Our 
Ref: DRN66382246Prices and how we calculate  Our Prices are determined  at our absolute  discretion and any changes  
are effective immediately.
Mr I has provide no evidence to support what he has said about his account being monitored  and his 
open positions being managed by Gain. I think it is very unlikely it took any such action  on his 
account.
With regard to Fresnillo, having checked its price over the period Mr I complains about, it is clear that 
it rose consistently in price from a low on 23 December  2016 up to when he complained in February 
2016. And contrary to what he said to Gain this also reflected  what was happening in the market 
generally, which wasnt  falling over that period  as he has suggested.  
I think  it is clear that the account was execution only and any changes  in price  for Fresnillo or any 
other trade Mr I did was as a result of changes in the market and not because  Gain manipulated his 
trades or did anything else wrong.
Gain closed his open  positions on 16 June 2017 when  it shouldnt have done
Mr I complains that Gain closed his open positions in Lloyds CFD, Barclays CFD and Tesco CFD 
when it shouldnt have  done.  He said that a number of his Tesco open positions  had been closed 
earlier in the day because these had reached the limits  he had set and that his remaining 31 open 
positions in Tesco CFD were in profit and were being  closed down  when the price suddenly dropped 
and the profits dropped  so that he was unable  to take any more profit.  He said the margin  level 
indicator was showing  above 200 at the time. He said his Lloyds CFD open positions  were  also 
trading at a profit but not enough for him to take the profit. But because  both his Tesco and Lloyds 
CFDs were  trading at a reasonable profit he decided to open three new positions  with Barclays CFD 
but that the margin indicator  was still more  than 200 after he had done this.
Mr I says he closed down his platform at 13.00 and returned at 13.30  and this showed total margin of 
zero. When he telephoned  to find out what  had happened  he was told all of his open positions  had 
been closed because his margin had fallen  below 80% at 13.12. Mr I said that the closing  of his open 
positions when the margin fell below  80% had been happening after he had saved enough trading 
resources to start making reasonable profit from his trades and taking out some of his profit. So he 
believes his account has been monitored and the closing  of his positions  has not been done in good 
faith. 
What happened on 16 June 2017 is similar to Mr Is complaint about what  happened on 4 October 
2016. Namely, by his own admission he wasnt keeping an eye on what  was happening for a period of 
around 30 minutes. As I have already indicated, CFD trading often involves rapid fluctuations in price 
over short periods of time. I have seen no evidence that Gain  did anything wrong in closing his trades 
as a result of his margin level falling below  the margin  close out level.
Mr I repeated the assertion  he had made previously about his account being monitored  and 
suggested that trades have been closed deliberately to his disadvantage and not been done in good 
faith. This is a serious allegation and, as in his previous complaint, there is no evidence to support it. I 
think it is very unlikely that Gain would have deliberately manipulated his account  to his detriment.  
Gain opened  a trade on 21 June 2017 at the wrong execution price
On 21 June Mr I opened for 2000 Tesco CFD at an execution price of 167.55. He thinks  the price 
shouldve been 167.500 because he says this was the price when  the trade was executed.  
As Gain explained  in its response to the complaint and as it had referred  to in previous 
correspondence with Mr I, trades  are based  on Our Price as defined in clause  5.1 of its terms which I 
have already set out.
Ref: DRN66382247Gain said it reviewed the price at the relevant  time on Bloomberg  a third party source  which  
confirmed that the underlying offer price for the Tesco trade, which Our Price was based on, was 
167.55 and this was the price in the 30 seconds  before Mr I placed his trade. It also said that the web 
activity report  for Mr Is account at the time he clicked  trade shows the price  was 167.55.
Mr I said that he clicked on buy in his platform and then clicked on execute  at 9.55 when he says 
the price was 167.50. But the screen shot that Gain has provided of the offer price for Tesco CFD at 
the time shows that his trade was executed at 9:53:54 and the offer price had gone up from 167.50 to 
167.55 at that time, before  dropping back to 167.50. The information I have seen shows that there 
were similar  fluctuations  in the price over the next few minutes  as well. I am not persuaded  that Gain  
executed the trade at the wrong price on the evidence I have seen. 
It is the nature of CFD trading that prices  can fluctuate  rapidly in short periods of time as I have 
already indicated. Mr I was an experienced  trader so he shouldnt be surprised that the price  of his 
trade went up at the time his trade was executed. There are ways to protect against this, such  as 
setting a price tolerance when giving  instructions for immediate trade so that trades wont be executed 
when the price  moves unfavourably away from the quoted price and outside  a clients price  tolerance. 
This is explained at clause 5.6 of the terms.
Im not persuaded  by the information I have been given  that Gain placed his trade at the wrong  price. 
I am satisfied  based on the information I have been given that his trade was placed  at the correct 
price and I dont think Gain did anything wrong.
In summary and by reference to the general complaint  points made  by Mr I when he referred his 
complaint to us:
I am not satisfied that Gain  was responsible for training Mr I on its platform or made technical  
changes that affected his trading;
I am not satisfied that Gain  did anything wrong in shooting down trades  which I understand 
to mean closing trades. I am satisfied Gain was entitled to close  down the various trades that 
it did because Mr I fell below the margin close out level.
I am satisfied that Gain  provided an execution only service to Mr I and it didnt  monitor or 
manipulate his trades as alleged.  I think at all times it operated in accordance  with the terms 
that applied to Mr Is account.
I dont  think it was dismissive of Mr Is concerns. I think it dealt with the various  queries he 
had with regard to his account  which went beyond the complaints he made  in a 
reasonable way.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6638224