K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) mis-sold him a regular payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit  card repayments.
background
Mr C applied for a credit  card in April 2002. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his credit card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because  he thought Mr C 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr C disagrees.  He says Capital One didnt give clear enough information about the terms 
and conditions of the PPI policy.  He says if it was explained clearly  to him at the time he 
would not have opted for it. Mr C says he had very good sick pay and didnt need it.
Both parties  do not agree so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C says he applied for the credit  card and PPI through a phone call. Capital One say Mr C 
completed an application form and sent it to them in the post. So I have looked  into this. I 
have seen a completed application form and it looks like the sort of form that would have 
been used in a postal  application. So although I dont know  for sure what  happened, I think it 
is more likely than not Mr C completed the application  form and sent it to Capital  One in the 
post. So I will proceed that this was the case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
I have first of all looked at whether Mr C was given a choice to have the PPI policy. Capital 
One has given  us a copy of the application  form Mr C completed.  
I can see that PPI is put across as optional on the form. It says please enrol  me in Capital 
Ones Payment Protection Scheme  and then next to this it gives  the option to select  PPI 
and also gives the option to not have it. I can see on Mr Cs application form a tick has been 
placed next to the option  to have it. 
So I think because Mr C selected  to take PPI with a tick he understood he had a choice in 
taking the policy and wanted  the cover. If Mr C didnt want  to take out PPI he couldve ticked  
next to the option declining the policy. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think Capital One advised  
Mr C to take PPI. What this means  is that Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mr C, it just 
gave him information  about it. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, 
fair and not misleading so he could make  an informed  choice  about  buying PPI.
Ref: DRN61817062I dont know if Capital  One did give all the proper information that was needed. But even  if 
Capital One did give all the information Mr C needed  to make an informed choice on taking 
out the policy, I think he wouldve still taken the policy because  at the time of sale from what 
we know about  Capital One policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr C says he had between 3 and 6 months  sick pay. When I 
consider this, I think the policy wouldve  helped  him in an extended time of need, so I 
dont think his circumstances at the time wouldve put him off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr C and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr C on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
I know this is likely to come  as a disappointment  to Mr C but in conclusion, I do not uphold  
his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6181706