K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt pay her enough for her 
written-off car when  she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
background
Admiral offered Mrs W £2,700 for the car. She said shed found  similar cars advertised for 
sale for much more than that. Mrs W said the average advertised price was £3,700.  She 
provided examples  that ranged  from £3,995 to £3,395. 
Admiral said it had relied on the valuations set out in the national  motor trade guides to 
establish the cars market value. It said it had given  Mrs W the top valuation  from the three  
guides it had looked at. Mrs W said she hadnt  seen  any car similar to hers advertised  for 
less than £3,100. She accepted that sales prices were subject to negotiation,  but she didnt 
think that accounted for the difference in prices  between  the guides  and the adverts.
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Ws complaint. He said we thought  it was fair to rely 
on the motor trade guides. He checked the ones Admiral had used, plus a fourth guide. The 
investigator thought  Admirals offer was a reasonable reflection  of the cars market value.  
Mrs W said she shouldnt  have been left in a better or a worse  situation following Admirals 
offer. She pointed  out that the policy said it would pay her enough  to buy a car of the same 
make, model, year, mileage and condition. She said she wasnt happy that the trade guide 
source material Admiral used wasnt available to her, so she couldnt check it. She said the 
range of figures from the guides varied a great  deal, so it couldnt be a fair system.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It can be hard to value cars, but as the investigator has explained, we have a settled 
approach towards  valuation disputes. We dont generally think its fair to rely on advertised 
prices, given their variation and the fact that garages  and consumers inflate them. Even  the 
adverts Mrs W has sent us - for what seem to be five very similar cars - varies by £600.
No valuation system is perfect. But overall we think the national trade guides provide the 
most reliable figures to help insurers establish what the likely market  value  of a car is. The 
sums given  in the guides are based on extensive research nationwide into the likely selling 
prices of cars, mostly based  on asking  prices and auction prices.
Admiral looked at three of the trade guides.  The valuation in one was out of line with the 
others. So it relied on the highest sum quoted  in the other two guides.   
As part of our process,  we check that the valuations an insurer  has used are based on the 
right car. The investigator did that, so Mrs W can be assured that Admiral didnt make  an 
error. He also looked at a fourth  guide that Admiral  hadnt used. The valuation in it was far 
higher than the others, so it was also out of line with the sum Admiral offered Mrs W.  
Ref: DRN69087802We usually say that if a valuation  in one of the guides is significantly out of line with the 
others it should be disregarded.  Thats what Admiral  did with the lower  valuation it noted. 
Had it used the fourth  guide, it would have been fair for Admiral  to disregard the significantly 
higher valuation in it. That valuation was also out of line with the adverts Mrs W had seen 
and provided to us. 
I understand why Mrs W doesnt think she was offered enough for her car, given the adverts 
shes seen. But the average of the valuations in all four guides  isnt significantly out of line 
with the sum Admiral  offered  Mrs W. I think Admiral acted reasonably  by following our 
settled approach in deciding  what sum to offer her, so I cant uphold  Mrs Ws complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6908780