K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about how U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) handled his claim made on his 
commercial motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr Fs car was damaged in an accident and UKIs  engineer  deemed  it to be beyond 
economical repair. UKI offered Mr F about  £5,000  for the pre-accident  market value of his 
car. But Mr F thought  it was worth more. He was also unhappy with deductions made for 
pre-existing damage, the attitude of the engineer, UKIs communication and delays in the 
claim. UKI replied that it upheld Mr Fs concerns about the engineer,  its communication  and 
delays and it offered  him £100  compensation. It later offered Mr F a further £100 as it gave 
him incorrect information about the amount of his excess payable.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought 
UKIs valuation was fair and reasonable as it had been made  correctly  according to our 
approach. But she thought some  of the deductions  were unfair. And she thought  UKI should 
increase its compensation offer by a further £100  to recognise the impact its service had on 
Mr F.
UKI replied that it relied on its engineers expert  evidence for the deductions.  It thought 
further compensation wasnt warranted.  Mr F didnt disagree that the valuation was fair.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F hasnt  disagreed, following the investigators checks, that the valuation  offered by UKI 
for his cars market value and its salvage was made fairly and reasonably. She also 
explained that recently purchased tyres wouldnt increase the valuation. So I wont consider 
these points further. Whats left for me to consider are the fairness of the deductions from 
the settlement  made by UKI for pre-existing  damage, and its offer of compensation  for the 
service provided to Mr F.
UKI made deductions  for an oil leak, which it said was pre-existing,  the condition  of the 
brakes, corrosion to the front wheels and scratches  to a door. Our approach to deductions 
for pre-existing damage is that they are fair if they would affect the cars market value. In the 
case of older cars, such as Mr Fs, wed expect the market  valuation to already take into 
account reasonable wear and tear. 
UKI made deductions  for corrosion  to the wheels and scratches  to a door. It relied  on the 
engineers view that these would affect the cars value. But I think some wear  and tear is to 
be expected in a 10 year old car. I cant see that the engineer has explained why a 
deduction should be made  given  the overall  condition of the car. So I dont think its fair for 
UKI to make  deductions  for these.  
UKI made a deduction for the brake discs. I can see that an inspection  of the car three 
months before the accident noted that these  needed  replacement.  UKI made a deduction for 
half the cost of their replacement, in keeping with our approach. So I think  this deduction 
was fair. 
Ref: DRN65711522UKI also made a deduction for an oil leak. Mr F said this wasnt present before the accident. 
And hes shown us an inspection report made three  months before the accident where a 
leak wasnt noted. UKIs engineer said the leak must have been present for some  time due 
its size and the amount of dirt present. But if that was the case, Id expect it to have been  
noted in Mr Fs earlier inspection. So, on balance, Im not persuaded that the oil leak was 
pre-existing and so I think its unfair for UKI to make a deduction for it. 
UKI paid Mr F £200 compensation  for the service issues  he experienced. It also extended 
his hire car. Looking at its file notes, I can see that the compensation took into account:
Unpleasantness Mr F felt due to the engineers attitude.
Providing unclear  information about  the hire car duration.
Giving incorrect information  about  sending the car to a main dealer for repair. 
Not telling Mr F where his car was moved to by the garage.
Moving the car to a salvage yard after it was agreed that Mr F would retain it. 
Lack of communication for two weeks.
Giving Mr F the wrong information  about the amount of his policy excess  that was 
payable.
Delays in settling  the valuation dispute meaning  that Mr F couldnt buy a replacement car 
sooner.
When a business  makes mistakes, as UKI agrees it has done here, we expect it to restore  
the consumers  position and to take into consideration the impact the errors had on the 
consumer. 
I agree  with the investigator that the amount of compensation  UKI has paid Mr F for its level 
of service isnt sufficient. Mr F was left unclear about  what was happening  to his car, he was 
misinformed on several occasions, and his concerns with the valuation werent escalated as 
soon as they should have  been. I agree with the investigator that UKI should pay Mr F a 
further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused him. This is in keeping with the 
level Id award in similar circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Mr F a further £100  compensation (£300 in total)  for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by its level of service.
Pay Mr F a further £260  for the value  of his car (removing the deductions  it made for the 
oil leak and damage to the wheels and door). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6571152