K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the advice  he was given by Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited
(trading as Torch  Wealth Management) (Torch).  He was advised to transfer  his pension
funds to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension  (SIPP)  and to invest with a stockbroker using a
discretionary fund manager. He feels the advice  was unsuitable and the investments made
on his behalf were inappropriate.  
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision dated 
28 November 2018, a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional view was that Torch  hadnt acted fairly and reasonably when  it advised  Mr M 
to move his pension funds  to the new SIPP and to invest  them in the stockbrokers 
Aggressive Model Portfolio. My view was that, suitably advised, Mr M would  have remained 
in his existing  SIPP. I thought fair redress should be based on comparing the notional 
transfer value  of his previous SIPP with the notional transfer value of the new SIPP  if the 
Aggressive Model Portfolio had been managed in line with its stated objectives and 
investment approach. 
I also thought  Torch should pay Mr M up to £1,000 to enable him to take advice elsewhere 
on how he should invest his pension funds, and £300 for trouble and upset.
I asked the parties  if they wanted  to send me anything further in response to my findings.
Mr M didnt  accept my provisional  decision.  His representative made these points, in 
summary:
Torchs advice was very poor and the recommended SIPP  and investment werent 
suitable for his circumstances.
Prior to Mr Ms application being received, Torch had already raised concerns with the 
stockbroker about stock selection and asset  allocation. Torch shouldnt  have  passed  any 
further business to the stockbroker until this matter was resolved.
The redress proposed  in the provisional decision doesnt restore  Mr M back to the 
position hed be in if the advice  to transfer hadnt been given. Redress should be based 
on a comparison between  the actual value of the current  SIPP fund and the notional 
value of Mr Ms pension funds had Torch not given the advice.
Torch made  no comments on the provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence Ive seen, Torchs first queries about the discretionary  fund managers 
investments were in emails to the SIPP  provider  in October 2015. Mr Ms funds had been 
transferred to the new SIPP  and invested  with the stockbroker, on Torchs advice, in July 
2015. It therefore appears that Torch raised  concerns about the discretionary fund 
Ref: DRN64569022managers stock selection and asset  allocation  more than two months after the advice to Mr 
M and the transfer  of his funds. So I dont  think the evidence shows  that Torch was already 
concerned about  investment failings at the stockbroker when it made  its recommendations to 
Mr M.
I understand Mr Ms representatives argument  that the redress  should  be calculated  on a 
different basis, but I dont  agree with him. In effect, Mr Ms representative is saying that 
Torch should take responsibility  for losses that resulted from the discretionary fund 
managers deviation from the approach  described in the Aggressive Model Portfolio 
factsheet. The stockbroker was a regulated business and Torch  gave  it instructions  to invest 
Mr Ms funds in line with the approach described in the factsheet.  If Mr M suffered losses  
because the stockbroker didnt carry out Torchs instructions correctly, then I dont think it 
would be fair for me to require Torch to compensate Mr M for the stockbrokers failings. As 
explained in the provisional decision,  Mr Ms complaint about the stockbroker is now in the 
hands of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision remains the same as set out in the attached  
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Economic Financial Solutions 
IFA Limited to calculate and pay redress to Mr M as set out in the attached  provisional 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64569023COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains about  the advice he was given by Economic Financial  Solutions IFA Limited (trading 
as Torch Wealth Management) (Torch). He was advised to transfer his pension  funds to a Self-
Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP) and to invest with a stockbroker  using a discretionary  fund 
manager. He feels the advice was unsuitable and the investments made on his behalf  were 
inappropriate.
background
Mr Ms previous  SIPP and his introduction to Torch
Mr M had an existing  SIPP with Standard  Life, with the funds invested in the 71M Balanced Pension 
Fund. He was already taking  some income  from the plan.
In May 2015  Mr M was introduced to Torch for advice. Torch recorded that Mr M wanted it to review 
his pension arrangements.  
Torchs assessment and advice
Torch reviewed Mr Ms circumstances. Fact-finding documents recorded the following information 
about Mr M:
He was aged  60.
He was married  with one dependant.
He was self-employed, with gross  earnings  of £18,000 a year.
Using a risk-profiling tool, Torch assessed his attitude  to risk as Profile 9 (on a scale of 1 to 
10, where 10 was the highest risk). Profile 9 was categorised as very high risk.
Other  than his pension,  his savings were  cash/deposits of £95,000 and an emergency  fund of 
£5,000.
Torch told Mr M that although his answers to the risk profiling  questionnaire indicated  his attitude to 
accepting risk was very high (Profile 9), Torch was recommending a portfolio  for someone with a 
lower risk tolerance of 6 or 7 (which Torch said was no higher than high-medium). Torch  said this 
was because Mr M said he could at best accept medium losses. 
Torch recommended Mr M should transfer his pension funds into a new SIPP. It advised  Mr M to 
place his funds with a particular discretionary fund manager at a stockbroker.
It advised  that the funds should be invested in the Aggressive  Model Portfolio.  
Mr Ms new SIPP
Torch arranged Mr Ms new SIPP with another SIPP  operator. 
£96,504.49 was then transferred from Mr Ms existing  SIPP to the new SIPP  in July 2015. Of this, 
£92,272.31 was sent to the stockbroker for investment.  Torch  gave instructions to the stockbroker that 
the money should be invested using  its Aggressive Model Portfolio. This was one of a range  of 
portfolio models which would be managed by a discretionary fund manager, who would invest the 
money in a number of separate assets.
The stockbrokers factsheet on its Aggressive Model  Portfolio said its objective was as follows:
"to outperform the FTSE/WMA Stock Market  Global  Growth index over the medium term.  
The underlying investments will give a broad global diversification allowing the investor  
Ref: DRN64569024exposure to valued asset classes from all corners of the globe with the assurance of liquid 
vehicles through the London  Stock  Exchange." 
The factsheet  said the actual  asset allocation  as at May 2015 was 90% international  equities  and 10% 
UK government debt.  
questions to the stockbroker
Soon after Mr Ms funds were transferred, Torch raised  concerns with the new SIPP operator about 
the investments  the fund manager had made. From October 2015 onwards there were email 
exchanges between Torch, the SIPP operator and the stockbroker about this matter.
Torch and the SIPP  operator  questioned whether  the stockbroker was managing Mr Ms funds in line 
with the approach requested  and whether  the assets were sufficiently diversified. These exchanges 
continued for over a year without resolution. My understanding is that Mr M wasnt a party to this 
communication.
Mr Ms complaint
In September 2016, Mr M complained  to Torch about the advice hed received and the investments 
made on his behalf. 
Unhappy with Torchs response, Mr M referred his complaint  to this service, saying that over 98% of 
the pension fund had been  invested  in penny shares and, because  of the collapse in their value,  hed 
suffered severe  financial  losses.
the adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Ms complaint  should be upheld.  He concluded that the advice 
to transfer into a new SIPP  and invest in the specific portfolio wasnt suitable. He gave these  reasons, 
in summary:
Torch told Mr M his existing Standard Life SIPP  was more expensive  than the new SIPP. But 
in fact the two SIPPs had almost  the same charges. The Standard Life SIPP had an average 
charge of 1.9% per year.  The new SIPP  charges were slightly higher,  taking into account the 
administration fee, capped drawdown  fee, commission  and fund management fees. Adding 
Torchs 4% initial fee, the transfer didnt represent a better alternative.
The illustrations showed  that the existing  SIPP  produced better  or broadly the same returns  
as the new one. The new one produced a better return only at the higher growth  rate. 
The advice to transfer into the new SIPP  was unsuitable. In the adjudicators view, Mr M 
should have remained  in his existing  SIPP.
To assess any redress payable, the current notional value  of the Standard Life plan should be 
compared with the current  notional  value of the new SIPP had it been invested in line with the 
appropriate stockbroker portfolio factsheet.  If the notional value of the stakeholder plan is 
lower than the notional value of the portfolio,  then Mr M has suffered no loss.
In addition,  Torch  should compensate  Mr M for the loss resulting from the money left in the 
cash account in the new SIPP. This should be the notional value  of the money  if it had been 
invested in the Standard Life plan.
Mr Ms representative agreed  with the adjudicators recommendation. Torch  did not.
Ref: DRN64569025my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable,  Im required to take 
into account  relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules,  guidance and standards, 
relevant codes of practice; and where  appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Mr M also complained about the actions of the stockbroker. Thats  been the subject of a separate  
claim by Mr M which is now with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Although I 
need to take into account the interaction between Torch and the stockbroker,  to avoid any doubt I 
should stress that my decision here concerns  Mr Ms complaint about  Torchs  actions and the extent 
to which they have contributed to any losses Mr M may have incurred.
what should Torch  have done?
Torch was advising Mr M. It was therefore required to give him suitable advice.  
In my view,  there are three  specific questions I should answer in order to determine whether Torch  
acted fairly and reasonably  when it advised Mr M to move his pension funds  to a new SIPP and invest  
them in the stockbrokers Aggressive Model  Portfolio.  This also assists me in determining whether  the 
transfer was in Mr Ms best interests  and if not, what I consider he ought  to have been advised to do 
instead: 
first, was the level of risk of the recommended  investment the correct one for Mr M? 
secondly, was the new arrangement more expensive  or less expensive than Mr Ms previous 
pension arrangement?
thirdly, what alternatives  were open  to Mr M to meet  his objectives? 
was the level  of risk of the recommended investment suitable  for Mr M?
Torch assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk using a risk profiling tool based on a series of questions. The 
answers were used to arrive  at the conclusion that his attitude to risk was Profile 9 (on a scale of 1 to 
10) which was categorised  as very high risk. It isnt clear  to me how the rating  was arrived  at. The 
questions didnt include a description of the risks Mr M would  be taking or how they might be relevant  
to him and his specific circumstances and objectives. Nor was there any attempt to illustrate how 
much Mr M could lose and what this might mean for his pension fund and retirement planning. 
Its clear Torch itself had doubts about the risk profile results when  it advised  Mr M. It made  an 
adjustment to its advice  at the time  it reduced the risk level of its recommendation  to no higher than 
high-medium.  
Having reduced the risk level of its recommendation, Torch advised Mr M to invest  in the Aggressive 
Model Portfolio.  
The stockbrokers factsheet for the Aggressive Model  Portfolio said it would primarily  invest in ETFs 
[Exchange Traded Funds], quality corporate  bonds, cash and other passive investments. The 
stockbroker used a risk scale of 1 to 10 and said it would anticipate the collection of funds within the 
portfolio to expose an investor to a level of risk in the range  of 6-7. It said the actual asset allocation 
as at May 2015 was 90% international  equities  and 10% UK government  debt.
In my opinion,  an investment  subject  to this level of risk wasnt suitable for Mr M. He may have been  
prepared to accept some risk, as he said he could  tolerate  small to medium investment losses. But a 
portfolio invested by a discretionary fund manager,  intended to focus on ETFs and corporate bonds 
Ref: DRN64569026(with 90% actually invested in international equities), anticipating a risk level of 6-7 out of 10, was too 
risky for Mr Ms financial and personal  circumstances.
Mr M was self-employed and his gross earnings were well below  the national median for full-time 
workers. His existing SIPP  was his only pension provision. He had only five years to his intended 
retirement age and had already taken some of his pension.  He therefore had limited time in which  to 
make up any losses incurred on investments. Given these circumstances, I agree with the adjudicator 
that Mr M didnt have the capacity to absorb the losses that might arise from holding investments with 
the risk level of the Aggressive Model  Portfolio.
For these  reasons, I think the level of risk of the investment portfolio  recommended by Torch was 
unsuitable for Mr M, and it represented a higher risk than he was in a position to take, or was 
prepared to take.  
was the new arrangement more expensive or less expensive than  Mr Ms previous pension?
I agree with the adjudicator that moving to the new SIPP  didnt represent a cheaper alternative to Mr 
Ms existing plan. 
According to the illustrations provided, the new SIPP administration fees (including  the drawdown  fee) 
were £372  a year,  which represented 0.38% of Mr Ms pension funds at the time. Added to this, the 
fund management fee was 0.85% and Torchs  ongoing fee was 0.75%. The total of the annual fees for 
the new arrangement was therefore initially 1.98%.  This was higher than the average annual charge  
on Mr Ms previous  pension plan, which was 1.9%.
In addition to the ongoing charges, Torchs  4% initial one-off fee plus the stockbrokers commission of 
1.2% on trades meant that Mr Ms funds also suffered  an immediate depletion of around 5% when the 
new SIPP and its investments were set up.
Torch advised Mr M that moving  to the SIPP would mean paying lower  charges than on his existing 
plan, but I conclude  this wasnt the case. 
what alternatives were open  to Mr M to meet his objectives? 
In the suitability letter,  Torch  discussed the risk level that would be appropriate for Mr M and 
compared the costs of Mr M staying with his existing SIPP and moving to the new SIPP invested in 
the Aggressive Model Portfolio.  Torch  recommended  the new arrangement on the basis that it was 
cheaper than Mr Ms existing plan and that his investment aims  were most  suited to the Aggressive 
Model Portfolio.
For the reasons  Ive given and on the basis of the available information, I dont believe the new 
arrangement was cheaper than Mr Ms existing  plan and I dont think  the level of risk of the 
Aggressive Model  Portfolio  was suitable for Mr M.
Ive considered the actual fund in which Mr M was invested with Standard Life, according  to the 
portfolio report Torch obtained at the time. The report assessed the investment risk of the 71M 
Balanced Fund  as level 2 on a scale of 1 to 10, where 10 was the highest risk. It seems about half the 
fund was invested in equities  (international  and UK), balanced out by investment amounts in other 
asset classes  such  as fixed interest and money markets. I dont think  this balanced approach would 
have been particularly inconsistent with Mr Ms attitude  to risk. 
So it isnt clear  to me why Mr M needed to do anything at all with his existing pension funds  at the time 
of the advice.  Therefore my view is that his objectives could have been satisfied by simply staying 
where he was.
Ref: DRN64569027in summary
For all of the reasons  set out above, I dont think Torch acted fairly  and reasonably  when it advised  Mr 
M to move his pension funds  to the new SIPP  and to invest  them  in the stockbrokers Aggressive 
Model Portfolio.  My view is that, suitably advised, Mr M would have remained in his existing SIPP.  
fair compensation
Mr M has complained that the stockbroker didnt  actually  invest  the funds in line with the instructions it 
was given,  and as a result  he suffered  further  losses.  Torch too has said the majority of the 
investments the stockbroker made bore no resemblance to Torchs  judgement of the type of 
investment that was suited to Mr M. As I said above, theres a separate claim against the stockbroker 
and its now in the hands of the FSCS. I make no findings on the stockbrokers actions in this decision.
My provisional  conclusion here is that the transfer to the new SIPP and subsequent intended 
investment in the stockbrokers model  portfolio,  as recommended by Torch, wasnt suitable  for Mr M in 
the first place. In my view, Mr M should have  remained in his existing SIPP  with Standard Life. So fair 
redress would be based on comparing the notional transfer  value of the Standard Life SIPP with the 
notional transfer value of the new SIPP  if the stockbroker had managed the model portfolio in line with 
its stated  objectives and investment approach.
The stockbrokers stated benchmark for the Aggressive  Model Portfolio was the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Stock Market  Global Growth Index. I therefore consider this index  to be a fair and 
reasonable method for determining likely  investment performance  had the stockbroker followed the 
portfolios stated objectives and investment strategy.
I note that some of Mr Ms funds werent transferred to the stockbroker and instead remained in cash  
in the new SIPP. 
Subject to my final decision remaining the same, Torch should therefore undertake the following:
Establish, as at the date of my final decision, the notional value (A) of Mr Ms Standard Life 
pension plan that was transferred to the new SIPP,  had that pension plan remained in place.
Establish, as at the date of my final decision, the notional value (B) of the proportion  of Mr Ms 
Standard Life pension plan that was transferred in July 2015 to the stockbroker for 
investment, had the same proportion  been invested  in the FTSE UK Private Investors  Stock 
Market Global Growth  Index.
Establish the actual  value  (C) of the cash amount in Mr Ms new SIPP,  as at the date of my 
final decision.
A is what Mr Ms pension  funds  would be worth today if he hadnt transferred to the new SIPP. The 
sum of B and C is what Mr Ms pension funds would be worth today  if, after the transfer to the new 
SIPP, the stockbroker had managed the model portfolio in line with its stated objectives  and 
investment approach. If A is larger than the sum of B and C, then Mr M has suffered a loss that 
should be compensated.  
Torch should therefore pay A  (B+C) to Mr M if the result of this calculation is positive.
I should  point out that if the FTSE UK Private Investors Stock Market  Global Growth  Index has 
performed better than the Standard Life plan, then its likely the calculation will show no loss. 
In this respect, my provisional decision differs from the adjudicators recommendation,  which  involved 
separate loss calculations for the invested and cash parts of the SIPP,  and made no provision  for 
offsetting a gain in one against a loss in the other. 
Ref: DRN64569028In this complaint, the result of the change in the calculation method may be that no compensation  is 
due to Mr M. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but, in my view, it wouldnt  be fair or 
reasonable for losses from one part of the assessment  to be compensated while at the same  time 
gains in the other  part of the assessment were ignored.
If compensation is due, the amount should if possible  be paid into Mr Ms new SIPP.  The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. The compensation  shouldnt be paid 
into the SIPP  if it would conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If the payment into the SIPP isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it should be 
paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction of 15%. The payment would 
otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits,  25% of which  would be tax free and the rest 
would have been taxed  according  to Mr Ms likely income  tax paying status in retirement   presumed  
to be 20%.  And so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Any loss should be paid within 28 days of Torch  being notified of Mr Ms acceptance of my final 
decision. If its paid later, Torch should add simple interest  at 8% from the date of my decision to the 
date of payment.
The adjudicator recommended that Torch should additionally  pay £300 to reflect the trouble  and upset  
caused to Mr M. I think  thats fair and reasonable, given  the events that have transpired and the 
uncertainty over his financial future which had its genesis in the unsuitable transfer to the new SIPP.
As a result  of these events, Mr M is likely to find himself with some of his pension  funds on deposit in 
his SIPP, receiving no investment return and without an investment strategy. To put him, as closely as 
possible, into the position  he would  be in now if he hadnt transferred to the new SIPP, provision  
should be made for advice to enable him to invest the funds appropriately. I cant tell with any 
accuracy how much it will cost, so I need to award  a reasonable  sum. I think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to award up to £1,000  for this purpose. Im therefore minded to require  Torch to pay Mr M 
up to £1,000,  upon the production of an invoice if required, to enable  him to take advice  elsewhere on 
how he should invest his pension funds.
 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this complaint and to require Economic Financial 
Solutions IFA Ltd to pay Mr M the amounts set out above.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6456902