K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains he was poorly  advised  to contract  out of the State Earnings  Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS) by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
background
Mr P says he was advised by Prudential to contract out of SERPS in 1987.  At the time he 
was 40 years old, employed and earning just over £13,000. Mr Ps complaint is prompted  by 
discussions hes had with HMRC. Following these discussions, Mr P says hes worse  off 
from contracting out. Mr P complained to Prudential. It didnt uphold  his complaint saying 
that Mr P was within the guidelines it set at the time to assess  whether,  or not, someone  
could benefit from contracting  out of SERPS.
Mr P didnt agree and complained to this service. He says that the deductions  taken from his 
state pension  when compared  with the pension income hell receive from Prudential mean 
that he will be just under £20 per year worse off.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. She felt that Mr Ps personal and financial 
circumstances met the key requirements  for contracting out of SERPS which  justified 
Prudentials advice for Mr P to do so. She also pointed out that the pensions  underlying  
investments were linked  to the stock market;  benefits werent therefore guaranteed.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He reiterated  that, in his view, hell get no benefit for 
contributing to a pension  scheme which he says hes been  paying into for 32 years. The 
case has now come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and largely  for the same reasons.
When the Government decided to allow individuals to contract  out of SERPS (and offered 
incentives to do so), it didnt give advice about who should be advised to remain in SERPS  
and those for whom  it was anticipated  that contracting out would be beneficial. To provide 
clarity, pension providers made comparisons  of the projected benefits from SERPS with 
those from a personal pension. These calculations were based  on what were felt to be 
conservative assumptions of likely future investment returns  at the time.  In drawing up these 
comparisons, two key criteria were considered; age and earnings. 
The rebates  paid by the Government were  one of the reasons where it could have been 
considered more attractive  for younger individuals to contract out than those who were older. 
The age, where  the providers advice  as to whether to contract out or not changed, is known 
as the pivotal age. Mr P was under this pivotal age when he contracted out. Mr Ps annual 
earnings at the time were  slightly  more than £13,000. This means  that Mr P was above the 
minimum salary  set by Prudential for individuals to contract out.  
So, in the context of his age and earnings,  Mr P was within the guidelines for potentially 
benefiting from contracting out of SERPS. But there  was no guarantee that he would be 
better off. The amount  paid into his personal  pension was invested  in the hope it would grow 
sufficiently so that the future benefits  would be more than Mr P would have received had he 
Ref: DRN69523372remained in SERPS.  That depended on the growth achieved by the funds in which  the 
pension was invested and the rates available at retirement for converting the pension fund 
into an annuity.
Its disappointing that investment returns have been lower than anticipated and annuity rates  
more expensive than expected at the time Mr P was advised to contract out. This means that 
the gains from contracting out are not as great  as had been hoped. And I can understand 
Mr Ps disappointment that he feels he may now receive less from the state  pension  than he 
would have if hed remained  in SERPS. But this doesnt mean the advice given at the time 
was unsuitable.
I appreciate that Mr P feels that there has been a negative  impact on his state pension 
resulting from contracting out of SERPS,  but I cant reasonably hold Prudential  responsible  
for this. Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Prudentials  advice to 
contract out of SERPS was inappropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6952337