K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont provide a refund by processing a 
chargeback or under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare product  from a third party (whom Ill call E) in 2015, and in 
2016 were induced to pay more money to E for additional services.  But the membership 
benefits promised  never  materialised and Mr and Mrs B feel the agreement  was mis-sold. 
They want  HSBC to provide a refund as they made some of the payments using their HSBC 
current account. 
The relevant  payments  consist of a debit card payment for £640  made  in September 2015, 
and two bank  transfers of £5,979 in October 2015 and of £3,762 in August  2016. 
Mr and Mrs B did make  other payments to E, but those werent from their HSBC account.  
HSBC doesnt  think section 75 applies to the payments Mr and Mrs B made from their HSBC 
account, as it only relates  to purchases  paid for with credit.  HSBC  accepts payments made  
by debit card can sometimes be refunded using a process known as chargeback. But it says 
this doesnt apply to the money  paid by bank transfer. And the chargeback  scheme rules that 
HSBC must follow say the maximum timeframe to dispute a transaction  is 540 days. So it 
was too late to process a chargeback for a debit card payment made in 2015 by the time 
Mr and Mrs B raised the issue  with HSBC in late 2018. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. Shes satisfied 
section 75 cant be applied here as the payments in dispute were  not made on credit.  She 
agreed the debit  card payments come under the chargeback process  but shes  satisfied 
that HSBC applied the rules regarding time limits correctly and it would be unfair  to require it 
to provide a refund.
Mr and Mrs B agree  that section 75 does not apply here, but they feel that the nature of the 
timeshare meant they couldnt have known there was a problem straight  away,  so they think  
a chargeback should be done. They also feel that HSBCs  delays have led to them being out 
of time to make a chargeback.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but 
Ive reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for substantially the same 
reasons. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B are really unhappy  with the timeshare they bought from E. They 
feel it was mis-sold and theyve been scammed. I have a great deal of sympathy  for the 
situation they find themselves in. But, for the same  reasons as our investigator, I am 
satisfied that section 75 doesnt  apply  to any of the three payments Mr and Mrs B made to E 
from their HSBC account. 
I accept the debit card payment (but not the bank transfer)  is subject to the chargeback 
process. But whether  a chargeback succeeds  or not is decided  under the card scheme rules. 
Ref: DRN65346742Ive considered the relevant rules,  and Im satisfied  a chargeback must be brought  within  120 
calendar days of either the date of the transaction or the date the services or merchandise 
were received  subject  to a maximum time limit of 540 calendar days from the date of the 
transaction.
The debit card transaction Mr and Mrs B made here took place in September 2015.  And Mr 
and Mrs B contacted  HSBC to ask for a refund in December 2018.  I understand the reasons 
for this delay  but Im afraid it means  the chargeback request was made outside of the 
timeframes allowed under the relevant  scheme  the request was actually  made over 800 
days after the transaction took place. And I cant fairly find it was unreasonable  of HSBC to 
not raise the chargeback in this situation.  
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  think that HSBC has done  anything wrong here.  I 
appreciate this is not the outcome Mr and Mrs B hoped for and Im sorry if they feel let down. 
Mr and Mrs B are not obliged to accept my decision  and, if they do not, they remain free to 
pursue this matter  by other means.   
my final decision
My decision  is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6534674