K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs P in 1994  alongside a 
mortgage. The PPI protected  Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage repayments in the event  Mr P 
couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs P took out some further advances on their mortgage later on  but they didn't 
take out any more  PPI. So Im just looking at what happened when they took out PPI in 
1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
view. Mr and Mrs P mainly complain that Mr Ps work benefits meant that it was highly 
unlikely hed ever have any need to make a claim on the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide anything signed by Mr and Mrs P from when the PPI 
was taken out. But thats not surprising. This sale dates back  to around  25 years ago. 
I wouldnt expect Nationwide still to keep records about this. I have to look at all the available 
information and the wider  circumstances and decide  what  I think  is most likely.   
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment. Mr and Mrs Ps home  couldve been  at risk 
if the mortgage monthly repayments werent  made  in full and on time. I think its likely that 
protecting their mortgage repayments  in the event of unexpected accident, sickness  or 
unemployment wouldve  been an important consideration for Mr and Mrs P at the time  
especially as they told us that Mrs P wasnt working when they took out the mortgage.
On balance, I think its more likely  that they decided  they wanted  to have the benefits the 
policy offered them  and they chose  to buy the policy  which had to be taken out to cover  
Mr P as only he was in paid employment at the time.  
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs P to take out the policy  so it was up to Mr and Mrs P 
to decide if they wanted  to take advantage  of the benefits that PPI could offer. But 
Nationwide still had to tell them enough  about  the policy for them to be able to decide if they 
wanted to buy it. And overall, I think Nationwide probably did give them  enough clear 
information - and where it mightnt have done,  better information wouldnt  have  made a 
difference. 
Ref: DRN69823942Nationwide told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document  from the exact date that 
Mr and Mrs P took out PPI. But it has provided  a policy  document which  was in use just 
before this  so I think its likely that in all main respects the policy  that Mr and Mrs P took 
out wouldve  had similar terms and conditions.
As far as I can see, even  taking into account  Mr Ps work benefits,  it looks  like Mr and Mrs P 
couldve benefitted from having this cover. Mr P was eligible for the policy. Ive thought 
carefully about what Mr P told us about  his sick pay and redundancy entitlement  through  
work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay and for significantly longer than 
he couldve  relied on his employer to pay him - up to 24 months for a successful  accident  or 
sickness claim. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out if Mr P became unexpectedly unemployed and was out 
of work. I appreciate  that hed been in his job a long time. But even if the possibility of being 
made redundant seemed  unlikely, there  could be no guarantee that his job would remain 
secure indefinitely.  And PPI wouldve paid out, in addition  to any redundancy  money, 
providing a useful benefit at whats likely  to have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs P if 
Mr P wasnt  working.
Mr and Mrs P havent mentioned any significant other means  they could rely on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. The mortgage was taken out when only Mr P was in full time work.  
So, even if Mrs P later went out to work  as well, I think  its likely  they mightve soon faced 
some money problems if Mr P couldnt work  especially after he stopped  receiving full sick 
pay from his employer. 
Looking at what Mr and Mrs P have told us about  their circumstances when they took out 
their mortgage, I think the policy couldve  been useful to them. 
Its possible that some information  Nationwide gave  Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  The policy didnt cover  some things. But it doesnt  look as if that 
wouldve affected Mr P. So, I dont think having  more information about the policy  exclusions  
and limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ps decision to take out PPI.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the monthly  premiums they paid for the policy  were 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs P. And I think they still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even 
if theyd been  better  informed as it offered Mr and Mrs P valuable  protection  they didnt 
otherwise have in their particular situation. 
On balance, I dont  find that the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs P said in response to the adjudicators view. For 
the reasons Ive set out, these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN69823943But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Nationwide  
didnt tell Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6982394