K822xcomplaint
Mr Ps complaint arises  from an internal  exercise  conducted by the Prudential  Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential), in which it closed its Invesco  Perpetual Managed Growth  (Series  A) fund (the 
IPMG fund) and moved  investors policies  in that fund to its International (Series A) fund (the 
International fund). His complaint is based on seven listed  issues, each reflected below. Overall  
he alleges  that the exercise  was flawed and that it affected the value  of his pension  related 
investment(s). He seeks compensation in this respect.
background
Available evidence  suggests the following chronology:
During 2017 Prudential appears  to have made the commercial  decision to phase out 
the IPMG fund and to replace it with the International fund. It says the decision was 
made because the former was not providing  good  value for money  and because  the 
latter has a similar investment strategy but a lower  annual  management charge.
Prudential set itself an internal  target  to complete the transition of policies by the end 
of 2017. It did not meet this target.  In Mr Ps case,  the transition of his policies from 
the IPMG fund to the International  fund was completed on 16 March  2018 and 
Prudential says this is when the IPMG fund was finally closed.
Prudential said it reflected on missing its initial completion target  and decided  to 
make goodwill payments to reflect this  based  on the difference in the performance 
of both funds between 14 December 2017 (its initial  target  date) and 16 March  2018 
(the date on which the transition  was completed). It calculated that the International 
fund performed 0.43% better than the IPMG fund. It applied  this to the value of Mr 
Ps investment.  The outcome appears to have been slightly wrong but it was rounded 
up  beyond the accurate figure   to £175, which Prudential sent to Mr P as a 
goodwill payment to reflect the missed  target.
Mr P did not accept the payment.  He sought  to clarify the circumstances surrounding  the 
matter, then concluded that Prudentials  responses  were unacceptable and submitted his 
complaint. The seven issues/grounds of the complaint are:
A request for confirmation of the exact  timings  of events  beginning from when 
Prudential decided  to conduct the transition  exercise and ending with the notice he 
received in October 2018 about  the matter. In addition,  Mr P requested an 
explanation behind each relevant event. [issue 1]
Mr P suggested that the £175  offer had been misrepresented as a goodwill payment, 
because around  £170 accounted  for loss of investment interest  and perhaps only the 
remainder was a goodwill  payment.  [issue  2]
Mr P submitted that compensation for loss of growth, upon the investment interest 
amount and up to his retirement age, remains outstanding  from Prudential.  [issue  3]
Mr P also submitted that Prudentials concession that it made  an error on his 
investments as a result of missing its target also remains  outstanding. [issue  4]
Mr P queried whether (or not) other  investors had been affected by the matter. [issue 
5]
Mr P requested that Prudential treat the matter  and his complaint  seriously.  [issue 6]
Mr P said he is due a  proper compensation payment, including losses and 
goodwill. [issue 7]
Ref: DRN65789992Prudential did not uphold the complaint. Broadly speaking, it maintained that it had done  
nothing wrong  with regards to Mr Ps investments and that its goodwill payment offer 
resulted only from its reflection over having  missed  its internal target   the implication being  
that the offer was wholly discretionary and did not indicate the wrongdoing alleged  by Mr P. 
The complaint was referred  to this service. One of our adjudicators looked into it and 
challenged Prudential  on the basis of the points that Mr P made.  However upon receipt and 
consideration of its response, explaining  the transition  exercise, she concluded  that 
Prudentials rounded up goodwill payment offer was fair and should be accepted.
Mr P disagreed with this outcome.  In the main,  he considered that his specific  grounds  for 
complaint  especially those related to the value of his investments  had not been  properly  
addressed and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The responsibilities of and powers within this service are not the same  as those of the 
industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Our remit, in the context of 
investments, is to address eligible complaints  about regulated  activities  (and ancillary 
activities). Where a firms  business practice  is relevant to a complaint  it will be considered,  
however our role is not to audit such  practice in a wider sense or to override a firms  
reasonable commercial  discretion in carrying out its practice. This defines my approach to 
Mr Ps complaint.
The first point to note is that evidence suggests Mr Ps pension was not left un-invested  at 
any point during Prudentials transition exercise.  It appears that it remained invested in the 
IPMG fund until the transition to the International fund in March 2019. It is not his complaint 
that the IPMG fund was unsuitable or that he had given an instruction to Prudential to switch  
funds which  it did not carry  out. 
I appreciate that Prudentials action in switching the funds  and its explanation  that, 
essentially, the International fund was a better  product  for its investors  (including Mr P) carry 
the seemingly obvious  implication  that it was indeed a better  fund than the IPMG fund. 
Reference to the International  funds  performance  being 0.43% better  than that of the 
IPMGs during the period stated above might also be said to lend itself to this conclusion.  
However, establishing that it was a better fund for Mr P does  not automatically mean that the 
IPMG fund was unsuitable.
Mr P might consider the above comments to be irrelevant  to his complaint, but I am 
persuaded that they more  likely (than not) relate  to why both parties  have disagreed over 
this matter. In the absence of responsibility for a period  in which  Mr Ps pension  was un-
invested, in the absence  of responsibility  for an unsuitable investment and in the absence of 
investment switching instructions from Mr P that were not carried  out, it appears fair and 
reasonable for Prudential to conclude that it has done nothing wrong with specific regard to 
Mr Ps investments. Any of these  responsibilities,  or a failure to carry out an instructed 
investment switch, could  create a basis for the point  made by Mr P in issue 3  that is, a 
basis for the alleged loss of future  growth. In their absence and in the circumstances of this 
complaint no such basis  exists. In other words, without establishing that Prudential has 
caused such harm  to Mr Ps pension  it would not reasonably follow that it should  be held 
responsible for an alleged  loss of future growth.
Ref: DRN65789993Mr P considers that Prudential has caused harm  to his pension by missing its target for the 
fund switch. Closure of the IPMG fund was not an error, it was intended and planned by 
Prudential based  on what appears to be reasonable commercial reasons. Its closure did not 
happen before Mr Ps pension was switched to the International  fund so the pension  was not 
left un-invested for any period  of time.  No harm to his pension arose in this specific  regard. 
Based on Prudentials internal target, the fund switch happened around  three  months late. I 
appreciate Mr Ps point  that this constitutes  an error  or failing,  regardless of it being based 
on Prudentials self-imposed internal target   as opposed to a contractual or regulatory 
obligation. Nevertheless, Prudential has made an offer that caters for this delay.  It appears  
to have tried to make the offer more meaningful by using the difference in performance  
between both funds  during the delay as its calculation  basis. In response to issue  4 and 
based on its communications to Mr P and to this service, I am persuaded that Prudential  has 
done enough to concede  that something went wrong in its pursuit to meet its internal target 
and that it has offered  Mr P a fair amount of compensation in this respect.  
I do not consider  the dispute  in issue 2  over the expression goodwill payment  to be as 
important as Mr P might  say it is. Prudential already asserts  (and accepts) that the rounded-
up figure of £175  is based on the notion  of lost net performance (between  the two funds).  
This shares  some common  ground with what Mr P says in issue 2. However, Prudentials 
view  which does not appear to be disputed  by evidence  is that it was not obliged to 
switch the funds by a particular deadline,  so the decision to make the offer arises mainly 
from its goodwill. On the other hand, Mr P is entitled to conclude that he deserves the offer, 
at the very least, because Prudential should have completed the switch by December 2017. 
Either way, the delay has been  conceded and compensated for.
Based on available evidence, I do not consider  that Prudential did not take Mr Ps case 
seriously  [issue 6]  and it follows from my findings above that Prudentials goodwill offer to 
Mr P was fair and that it is not responsible  for the alleged  losses   [issue 7]. 
Issue 1, at its core, appears to suggest that Prudentials process for and management of the 
exercise was flawed. I consider that Prudential  could have done better in this respect   two 
prominent examples  being its communication of the matter  to Mr P in October 2018, seven 
months after the delayed switch had taken place (in March 2018), and what appears  to have 
been a lack of concurrent  communications, at key stages, to investors like Mr P as the 
exercise began and was ongoing. However, I repeat that it is not within the remit of this 
service to audit a firms business practice  in a wider  sense.  With specific regard to Mr P, I 
am not persuaded that this creates  sufficient ground to increase the goodwill offer made  to 
him. My conclusion that Prudential could have done  better in its communications does not 
automatically amount  to a finding  that it mismanaged the exercise or that additional 
compensation is due. Overall, I consider  the offer of £175 is fair.
I do not consider  that information  arising from issue 5 is likely to add weight to the complaint. 
It might or might not be the case that other investors  were  affected by Prudentials  delay, but 
it remains the case that Mr Ps complaint is to be  and has been  addressed  on its own 
merits.
my decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint but only on the basis that the £175 offered 
to him by Prudential Assurance Company Limited  is fair and reasonable compensation. If Mr P 
accepts this decision and if the cheque previously  sent to him can no longer  be cashed (and is 
Ref: DRN65789994cancelled) I order Prudential Assurance  Company Limited to re-issue  payment of the £175  
compensation to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6578999