K821x#15Complaint
Mrs S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (trading as Audi Financial 
Services) (VWFS) terminated  her hire purchase agreement  (HPA) even  though she had made 
contact regarding payment. She also complains that VWFS didnt update  her direct debit 
instructions.
Background
Mrs S entered into a HPA with VWFS  in July 2018.  In February 2019, she sent VWFS a 
letter containing a cheque  for £500  and new direct debit instructions. She says that VWFS 
initially denied receiving  her letter and new instructions but she explained the cheque had 
been banked. She says that VWFS still said it hadnt  received her new instructions. She 
says that VWFS didnt  act on her instructions or get in touch with her about these and 
instead kept trying to take payments from her old bank account. Because  of this, she says 
her HPA was terminated and she was asked to pay an amount which she says is much 
higher than the cars value. 
VWFS says it contacted  Mrs S in October  2018 because her account had fallen into arrears.  
The account  remained in arrears and a default notice was issued in January 2019, which  it 
says set out what Mrs S needed to do and the required time frame.  It says that Mrs S didnt  
respond by the required  date but it did receive a letter from her enclosing  a cheque  for £500. 
It says it was able to identify Mrs S agreement by searching her address and the £500 was 
credited to her agreement. However this didnt satisfy the default  notice. It says that although  
new bank account  details were included in the letter it had insufficient information for the 
account to be updated and it didnt  have an up to date telephone number and so it couldnt 
call Mrs S to discuss the situation. 
VWFS says that prior to terminating  the HPA it did try the mobile and landline numbers it had on 
file for Mrs S but both numbers were  invalid. Mrs S HPA was terminated on 27 March 2019.
Our adjudicator said that VWS had contacted Mrs S about the status of her account and that 
the default notice made  it clear what needed to be done to prevent further action.  As Mrs S 
didnt make the required payment by the requested  date she didnt think VWFS  had done  
anything wrong  by terminating the HPA. However  she thought that VWFS could have 
contacted Mrs S by letter to tell her that there  was insufficient information  in the letter  she had 
sent to update her direct  debit details.  She said that VWFS did appear  to have tried to call Mrs 
S but couldnt get through but she thought more could  have  been  done, such  as sending Mrs 
S a direct debit form by post. Because of this our adjudicator recommended  that VWFS should 
waive any late payment  charges applied to Mrs S' account during the period where  it didnt up 
date her direct debit details and pay Mrs S £50 for the upset she had been caused.
Mrs S didnt accept our adjudicators view. She said that payment was made in December 
2018 and so her account was only two months in arrears when the default  notice was sent. 
She said she responded to the default notice on 14 February 2019 and requested  a new direct  
debit instruction asking  if she could pay £500 and clear the balance through the direct debit 
over the following months. She reiterated that her cheque for £500  was cashed but her 
instruction for the direct debit not acted on. She said that had VWFS contacted her to say she 
could not make the payment over the next few months she would have paid the outstanding 
amount at that time.  She also said that VWFS  could have contacted her by email or letter.
Ref: DRN67989942Mrs S said that VWFS had enough  information to deal with her direct debit request as when she 
called for a settlement quote it had her updated details based on the information in her letter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S entered into a HPA with VWFS  and in doing so agreed to its terms and conditions. 
These included  making the contractual payments on time. The payment in September  2018 
wasnt made and Mrs S was sent a letter date 9 October 2018 saying her account  was in 
arrears. A reminder was sent dated  6 November 2018. Mrs S then missed the next payment 
due and her arrears increased.  A letter dated  28 November 2018 set out the arrears  on her 
account which at that time were equal  to two months payments.
Mrs S has provided a copy of her bank statement which shows she made  a payment on 
6 December 2018, and I note the arrears reminder sent dated 11 December  2018,  notes an 
arrears amount equal to a months payment. However Mrs S December and January  
payments were not made  and so her account  went further into arrears.
Given the status of Mrs S account  and following the information she had been provided by 
VWFS about this I do not find it unreasonable that a default notice was issued on 30 January 
2019. This set out the payment that needed to be made by 18 February 2019. The default 
notice set out that further action, including terminating the agreement,  may be taken if the 
payment wasnt made.
Mrs S sent a letter dated 14 February 2019, in which she included a cheque  for £500 and 
asked if a plan could be set up for the remainder  of the arrears.  She also included new bank 
account details  for her direct debit. 
I note the comments made  by VWFS that the letter didnt contain the information needed for 
the direct  debit details  to be updated  and that Mrs S had a number of options  about how to 
update her details.  However I think VWFS could have done more to follow  up on the letter  
with Mrs S. I note the comments  about  telephone numbers  but a letter  could have been sent.
However, I also note that Mrs S had been provided with a default notice and given the 
information she needed to prevent further  action being taken. While I note her comments 
that had she known her offer to pay over the coming  months  hadnt  been accepted  then she 
would have made a full payment but I have no evidence to support this. Mrs S was given the 
amount she needed to pay and sent a cheque for around half this amount. While she had 
sent the letter she didnt then contact  VWFS to understand  if there was an option of a 
payment plan to clear  the remainder of the arrears  and so I think  it reasonable that Mrs S 
would have realised  this hadnt  been  put in place.
On balance, I do not find that VWFS did anything wrong by terminating the HPA when the 
payment set out in the default notice wasnt made.
I do think it could have  done more to get in touch with Mrs S in regard to the new direct debit 
details and agree with our adjudicators recommendation that any charges relating  to the 
period when the new direct details could have been  set up are removed and Mrs S is paid 
£50 in compensation.
Ref: DRN67989943My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should, as it has agreed:
 
waive  any late payment charges applied to Mrs S' account during the period when the 
direct debit  instructions  werent  updated;
pay Mrs S £50 for the distress and inconvenience she was caused as all methods of 
contact were  not exhausted to update her bank details.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6798994