K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Pepper  (UK) Limited (trading as Engage Credit) hasnt provided 
options for repayment of their interest only mortgage. They  also complain about the way 
Engage has administered their account. 
background
Mr and Mrs W took out an interest  only mortgage in 2007 with a 25 year term. Mr W says 
their circumstances have changed and they will be unable to repay  the mortgage. He says 
Engage hasnt been helpful or sympathetic.  Instead  of looking for options, such as switching 
to capital repayment, it proceeded with court action. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said 
Mr and Mrs Ws account has been in arrears for some time and there are significant arrears.  
While information provided  by Mr and Mrs W to Engage and the court suggested payments 
were affordable, they didnt maintain payments under suspended possession orders. 
The investigator said it was unlikely a switch to capital  repayment would be affordable, so it 
was reasonable  for Engage to decline this. Engages contact with Mr and Mrs W had been  
limited. Mr and Mrs W would send information by email, but wouldnt be available  when  this 
required a discussion.  
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  and so the complaint  has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
whats happened?
Mr and Mrs W took out an interest  only mortgage in 2007. The mortgage  was recommended  
by a broker. The mortgage offer says they intended  to repay the capital by the sale of the 
property.
Mr and Mrs Ws account soon fell into arrears.  Their previous lender obtained  a suspended 
possession order in 2011. Mr and Mrs W havent  maintained payments in accordance  with 
court orders  made in 2011 onwards. By mid 2019, the account was 45 months in arrears. 
Mrs W has health problems. She says Engage didnt take her health, disabilities and their 
financial circumstances into account  when dealing with the mortgage account  and when  it 
took legal  action.
Payments are made to Mr and Mrs Ws account  by the Department  of Work and Pensions 
(DWP). However,  the amount it pays is less than half of the monthly interest. 
Ref: DRN68448082repayment of the interest only mortgage
Mr and Mrs Ws contractual mortgage  payments are interest only,  so they will have to make  
other arrangements to pay the capital balance  on or before the mortgage expires. They  
havent maintained monthly interest  payments and, as a result, the mortgage  debt has 
increased. I understand Mr and Mrs Ws concerns about how they will repay the debt. 
Mr W says Engage declined to switch their mortgage to capital repayment. Mr and Mrs W 
havent been able to maintain monthly  interest  payments.  It seems  unlikely they could afford 
payments on a capital  repayment basis. I dont think Engage has acted unreasonably in not 
offering this to them. 
Engage says it doesnt offer advice,  so cant advise Mr and Mrs W about their options. I dont 
think its reasonable to require  Engage to set out all possible options which might be 
available for customers  with interest only mortgages. Whether these are appropriate will 
depend on a customers circumstances. But Id expect Engage  to consider fairly any credible  
repayment proposals Mr and Mrs W put forward. From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs W 
havent approached Engage with any other proposals for them to consider. Nevertheless, 
the mortgage term isnt due to end until 2032,  so they still have time to explore their options,  
and its possible their circumstances could change during this time.
administration of the account: taking  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances into account
Mrs W told Engage  that she has health  problems and a long term disability. Id expect 
Engage to take this into account. However,  I dont think its reasonable to require Engage to 
waive the arrears on Mr and Mrs Ws account, as they suggest. 
Engage says Mr and Mrs W dont always respond  to its requests for income and expenditure 
information. For instance, they didnt provide up to date information in 2019. It says it 
received information  about Mrs Ws health problems in 2015;  it hasnt received medical  
evidence since. 
The information Mr and Mrs W have provided  to Engage suggests that they can afford 
monthly payments  to cover the monthly interest  and a payment towards the arrears.  Mr W 
says these payments  are affordable.  However, there has been a consistent pattern of 
Mr and Mrs W not maintaining payments in accordance with court  orders. Its not clear  what  
the reasons are for this.
In the circumstances, I dont think Engage has been  unreasonable in trying to contact 
Mr and Mrs W about missed payments or to ask them for information about  their 
circumstances. Id also note that Mr and Mrs W and their representatives had the opportunity  
to provide information about their circumstances  to the court. So the court will have taken 
this into account  when making orders  about  the payments  Mr and Mrs W need to make.
Ref: DRN68448083possession proceedings
Possession proceedings should be a last resort. Sometimes though  a customers 
circumstances mean  they cant afford their mortgage and this is unlikely to change.  Their  
position may get worse over time and theres  a risk that the debt owed will increase. If the 
debt is greater than the sales proceeds when the property is sold,  the customer will be left 
with a shortfall debt to pay.
Mr and Mrs Ws account has been in arrears for some years. The debt they owe  and which  
is secured on their house  has increased.  They havent maintained payments in 
accordance with court orders. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Engage to take legal  action. 
I appreciate that receiving  letters about possible further proceedings can be upsetting.  But 
Engage has to keep  Mr and Mrs W informed about  their account and the possible  
consequences of missing payments. So I dont think it did anything wrong in writing to 
Mr and Mrs W about their arrears and missed payments.
what happens now?
When they brought the complaint to us, Mr and Mrs W said they wanted  repayment options 
to repay  the mortgage by the end of its term. I understand their concerns and Im sorry that I 
cant offer an easy solution.  Mr and Mrs W could consider taking independent financial 
advice about the options available  to them. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ws situation  is difficult. But I dont  think, in the circumstances, 
Engage has acted unreasonably or treated them unfairly. It follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6844808