K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  about the suitability of the advice provided by Barclays Bank  Plc 
(Barclays) to transfer  the value of her preserved  benefits in a final salary  pension scheme 
into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP)  and then use most of that money to purchase 
shares in a single  company.
background to this complaint 
In May 2011, aged 40, Miss O opened  a Barclays SIPP on an execution only basis.  Shortly 
afterwards an amount of £15,399.75,  representing the value of Miss Os preserved benefits, 
was transferred into the SIPP.
In June 2011, through Barclays stockbroking  service, Miss O purchased  shares in a single 
company at a total cost of £14,749.05. The remaining  balance  was held as cash  in the SIPP.
In September  2011, again through Barclays stockbroking service, Miss O sold some  of the 
shares she had previously purchased to realise  £3,000 - this remained  held as cash in the 
SIPP. No further  trades  were made  or contributions added  to the SIPP.
Over the next several  years the value of the SIPP gradually reduced. By January 2018 the 
total value of the SIPP was about £2,400. Miss O complained to Barclays about the financial 
loss she had suffered.  She said, in summary,  that:
she had received a phone  call from a financial adviser in 2011 explaining that she 
would be better  off transferring the value  of her preserved benefits into a SIPP  she 
believed the adviser  worked for Barclays;
the adviser sent her an application form for a Barclays SIPP  and then phoned to help 
her fill it in;
she returned the application  form and received  confirmation the SIPP had been 
opened and the transfer completed;
the same  adviser told her to purchase the shares at the centre  of this complaint and 
never explained she could potentially lose most of her money;
she never met the adviser since all contact was by phone   she believed  the adviser  
failed to carry out adequate fact finding, including  establishing her attitude  to risk, or 
explain the costs  involved and how these would affect the performance of the SIPP;
to put things right, she requested that Barclays pay compensation equivalent to her 
financial loss, which she stated was about £15,000
Barclays didnt uphold  this complaint.  It said it hadnt provided any advice to Miss O and that 
the SIPP had been set up on an execution  only basis.  Barclays said that it was Miss Os 
decision to transfer  and purchase  the shares  at the centre  of this complaint. As such, 
responsibility for this  including  understanding the risks and costs involved  rested with 
her.
Ref: DRN68968822Miss O didnt  accept Barclays response  and referred the matter to us. Our adjudicator didnt  
recommend upholding this complaint. He said, in summary, that:
Miss O had completed an execution only application to open the Barclays  SIPP;
there wasnt any evidence Barclays had advised Miss O to either transfer  into the 
SIPP or to purchase the shares at the centre of this complaint;
Miss O had called  Barclays directly each time she placed a trade  to buy or sell 
shares;
theres evidence  Miss O was advised  at the time of the transfer into the SIPP,  but not 
by Barclays;
Barclays wasnt responsible for Miss Os decision to transfer into the SIPP or to 
purchase the shares  therefore  he couldnt conclude that Barclays had made  an 
error or treated Miss O unfairly
Miss O didnt  accept our adjudicators findings. Since  agreement  couldnt be reached,  this 
complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider the information provided and reach what  I think  is a fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the facts. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I take 
account of relevant law, regulation, guidance  and what I consider to be good industry 
practice. And as a fresh pair of eyes looking at this complaint, its for me to decide,  based on 
the information provided, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Scope of this final decision  
Under this final decision  I can only consider  the acts or omissions of Barclays. Therefore Ive 
considered whether Barclays made  an error or treated Miss O unfairly  and, if so, what 
impact this had, if any.
To be clear and to help Miss O understand my remit  here,  I cannot  uphold a complaint  about 
Barclays in respect of the actions or omissions  of someone else that may have advised  or 
directed her to transfer her preserved benefits  into the SIPP  and then purchase the shares at 
the centre of this complaint.
Ref: DRN68968823Nature of Barclays SIPP
Ive looked into the nature of Barclays SIPP product and its responsibilities. Administration 
of the SIPP  is carried out by a third party. Barclays is responsible for providing stockbroking 
services. The terms of the SIPP confirm that Barclays doesnt provide advice in connection 
with this particular  product.  When a customer makes a payment into the SIPP, whether as a 
contribution or a transfer from another pension scheme, the third party  administrator 
forwards this money  to Barclays. Barclays then makes the cash available  in the SIPP for the 
customer to invest. Therefore the SIPP is a direct  investing service aimed at investors who 
make their own decisions to buy and sell a wide range of investments.
Did Barclays advise Miss O?
In my view, Miss O is an inexperienced investor.  So it seems  highly  unlikely she arranged 
the transfer into the SIPP and subsequent  purchase  of the shares  without direction by a third 
party. The question I need to answer is whether Barclays is that third party. Miss O says she 
was advised by a male  over several phone  calls but never met him. Shes sent us some 
rough handwritten notes she made  at the time of those calls that indicate she was advised,  
but its unclear  by whom. Indeed Miss O confirmed on the SIPP application  form that she 
had received advice  from a suitably qualified financial  adviser in connection with the 
transfer. 
While I think it is more likely than not that Miss O was advised, I havent seen any evidence 
that it was Barclays who advised her to transfer into the SIPP or promoted the shares shes 
complained about.  As a result, I cannot uphold this complaint against Barclays.
Conclusion 
Ive considerable  sympathy with Miss O concerning  the financial loss shes  suffered. But for 
the reasons Ive explained, I cannot reasonably  conclude that this loss is due to failures by 
Barclays. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me to 
require Barclays to pay Miss O compensation or to take any other action  in response to this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Os complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my final decision  before 9 June  2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6896882