K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with a premium increase on his travel insurance policy,  a policy  he holds 
through a packaged bank account with the Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op).
background 
Mr Gs held this travel insurance policy through Co-op for a number of years.  And every  year 
he was asked to declare  medical conditions. In 2018 he declared  an issue he had with his 
hernia. And because  of this declaration he was asked to pay an additional  £36 in premium. 
In 2019 his hernia was no longer a problem, and when asked to declare any issues  he had 
fewer medical conditions to declare. But his premium still increased by £36. 
When Mr G complained the Co-op explained that it had taken  the decision across  the board 
to increase rates on its travel insurance policies for customers  who declare pre-existing 
medical conditions.  It said that they hadnt  raised the costs for consumers in a number of 
years but that their costs had been  increasing over time and they could no longer  absorb this 
cost. Co-op said it was nothing to do with his previous hernia issue.
But Mr G remained  unhappy. He said the Co-op  had set certain  parameters from the 
beginning. But he feels these parameters had now changed and Co-op  shouldve  told him. 
But it didnt.  
Our investigator felt that Co-op hadnt  acted unfairly or unreasonably. She said that no error 
had been made. But Mr G remains unhappy.  So the matter has been  passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Before I start please note Im dealing with this complaint against  Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-
op). Co-op doesnt set the price of the policy, the underwriter of the specific  policy  does. Co-
op only deals with the administration of the policy. But in this instance  Co-op  says it made  
the decision to increase  the cost, so Mr Gs complaint  is against  Co-op.  
In deciding this case Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, I dont 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mr G, so Id like to 
explain why.
Mr G has two issues. The first one is the increase in premium and the second  one is whether 
Mr G was made aware his premium  might increase.
policy terms and conditions
Ive looked at the policy wording and I can see that it says:
Do you need to make  a Medical Health Declaration? 
We will assess the medical information supplied to us and advise if we can cover the pre-
existing medical condition(s), if certain  exclusions or restrictions  should  be imposed, or if 
cover can be offered subject to the payment of an additional premium. If the cover  is subject  
Ref: DRN67303962to the payment of an additional premium,  cover will not commence until full payment has 
been received  by us and written confirmation  has been provided  by us.
This is again  repeated under the heading  Important  Health Requirements   For All Insured 
Persons
Ive also reviewed the email that was sent to Mr G in April 2019 informing him that his 
Medical Health Declaration was due to expire. This email says: The Medical Assessment 
Team will advise if cover  can be provided  for the pre-existing medical  condition(s) or if cover 
can be offered subject to the payment of an additional premium. Medical conditions will be 
covered only when confirmed in a written medical endorsement, any appropriate additional 
premium, if applicable,  has been paid and whilst  your account remains  open.
It goes on further to say:
Any additional  premium quoted in order to cover  pre-existing  medical conditions  is 
dependent upon a number of factors - the nature and severity  of medical conditions, 
treatment required,  etc., and is subject to regular reviews. Therefore, previous terms of cover  
offered may change  upon renewal.
Looking at these  policy terms Im satisfied Co-op  made Mr G reasonably aware  there may 
be an increase in premium on declaring  a pre-existing medical condition. Im also satisfied 
that Co-op made it clear that upon  review, previous terms may change. So, I cannot fairly  
say Co-op has done anything  wrong here.
premium increases
When dealing with a premium increase complaint I would like to make it clear that I dont 
have the power  to tell a business  what its product  should cost. I would be, in effect 
determining or telling a business how it should operate   and thats  not my role. 
I would also like to add that each insurer, in determining its policys  costs,  is entitled to form 
their own view of risk regarding things such as pre-existing  medical conditions.  And from 
this, it decides  the costs  associated with the risk.
Id like to clarify again that the underwriter  of the policy  determines  the cost of the risk. And 
Co-op as the administrator takes  this cost on board and then decides what it should charge 
the consumer  for the policy. 
 
Mr G is unhappy as his premium has now gone up again, even  though hes now declaring 
less pre-existing medical conditions. And I understand why Mr G is unhappy. Mr G sees  
himself now as less of a risk and I can understand why he thought his premiums  would 
decrease  rather than increase.
Co-op says that it implemented changes in the pricing of medical risks on the Co-op  
schemes in 2018.  It says that this was the first price increase experienced by Co-op 
customers since 2008 and was required as a direct  result of the increasing inflation  of 
overseas healthcare costs.  
Co-op goes on further to say that in years gone  by it has absorbed any increases imposed 
by underwriters of travel  insurance on its customers behalf but that this was no longer 
sustainable. It says that the particular policy that Mr G had which is the Annual Multi-trip 
Ref: DRN67303963policy (inclusive of the USA, Canada and the Caribbean), incurs  its highest claims costs and 
its confirmed that the additional premium quoted to Mr G in order to cover  any claims arising 
either directly or indirectly from his disclosed pre-existing medical conditions  is correct and 
that he has been treated in exactly the same way as any of its other  Co-op customers 
matching his risk profile.
So, from what Ive seen,  there seems to be a legitimate reason for the premium increasing. 
And Co-op  has tried to keep this increase at a manageable rate for its customers.  I cant  see 
that the Co-op has treated  Mr G any differently to its other annual multi-trip customers. So 
overall that seems  fair.
As I said earlier,  I do understand  why Mr G was concerned that his premium increased. Had 
Co-op explained this clearly  to Mr G from the outset or when it reassessed the risk and 
increased his premium, Mr G may have been more understanding of the situation. So, I can 
see why Mr G brought his complaint to our service. But I hope my decision now explains to 
Mr G and brings peace of mind as to why I consider Co-op has acted  fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Co-operative Bank Plc clearly set out that changes may be made  and it hasnt increased Mr 
Gs travel  insurance premium unfairly.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Derek Dunne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6730396