K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  irresponsibly  gave  him 
loans he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Mr H 10 loans  between  May 2015  and December  2017.  Loans one to six 
were provided between May 2015  and March  2016. There was a break in the lending and 
loans seven to ten were  provided between July 2017  and December 2017.  Mr H was unable 
to repay  loan ten and a balance remains outstanding which Mr H is repaying in a debt 
management plan.
Mr H says that proportionate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided.  He 
says if these had taken place Mr Lender would  have realised  he was reliant on short  term 
loans and that the loans  werent affordable.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Mr Hs employment  and says based on the information  it gathered  
the lending was affordable. Mr Lender says it asked  what  the loans were  for and Mr H gave 
reasons that didnt  include repaying other debts and that Mr H didnt raise any issue  of 
financial difficulty with it.
Mr Lender did offer in its final response letter to write off all interest  and charges on Mr Hs 
final loan which was outstanding so that he was only required to repay the capital through 
his debt management plan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that he had seen  enough to say that loans one to three  shouldnt  
have been provided. However he thought that by the time of loan four, Mr Hs pattern of 
borrowing showed he was persistently  reliant on short term loans. He thought loans four to 
six werent sustainably  affordable.  There was a break in lending between  loans six and 
seven and the adjudicator  thought  that this was long enough for the lender to conclude  that 
any difficulty had passed so she didnt think there was anything wrong with the decision to 
give Mr H loans seven to nine. He thought that the offer made, to write off all interest and 
charges on loan 10 was reasonable and said that Mr Lender should  do the same for loans 
four to six. 
Mr Lender didnt accept  our adjudicators view.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
H could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN61775772But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loans one to three should 
not have been provided.  I have looked  at the information gathered,  including income  and 
expenditure information from the time, and I agree that there isnt enough to say Mr Lender 
should not have provided these loans to Mr H.
However, by the time the fourth loan was provided, Mr H had been  borrowing from Mr 
Lender consistently with no significant  break  in the lending. He had been taking out new 
loans as soon  as his previous loan was repaid and the amounts borrowed werent 
decreasing. Given this I think that by loan four, Mr Lender should  have been concerned  that 
Mr H was reliant on short term loans  and couldnt afford to repay what he was borrowing 
without borrowing again.
Mr H continued to borrow from Mr Lender with loans five and six being taken out as soon as 
or shortly after the previous loan was repaid. These  loans were also for the same amounts. 
This would suggest  that Mr H couldnt pay back the capital  he had borrowed without 
borrowing again.
Given Mr Hs pattern  of borrowing and the amounts  he was borrowing I think  that
Ref: DRN61775773Mr Lender should  have realised that loans four, five and six werent sustainably affordable 
for Mr H.
There was then a break  in lending for over 12 months. In these circumstances  when Mr H 
asked for loan 7 I think it would be reasonable for the lender to assume  any difficulties had 
passed in line with the nature of short  term lending.  I agree with the adjudicator  that it wasnt  
unreasonable to give Mr H loans seven, eight  and nine. 
Mr H continued to borrow without a significant break and at the point  of loan 10 asked for an 
increased amount.  I think at this point Mr Lender  should have  refused to give Mr H this loan 
as it was likely to be unsustainable given his borrowing  pattern. Mr Lender has agreed to 
waive all interest and charges on this loan which is in line with what I would have asked it to 
do in the circumstances.
I do not agree with Mr Lenders analysis that because  Mr H said he was not in financial 
difficulty and repaid his loans  on time (with the exception of loan ten) that it was reasonable 
to lend. Mr Hs borrowing pattern was at odds with the information he was giving to Mr 
Lender and as a responsible lender I consider that Mr Lender should have done  more before 
granting the loans  to verify what Mr H was saying. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender)
should:
A. Add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr H towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it has 
already refunded.
B. Calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr H which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr H originally made  the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Mr H as though they had been  repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the 
amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move  to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in "A" and "B" should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr H. However  if there is still an outstanding balance then 
you should try to agree an affordable repayment  plan with Mr H.
E. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file for loan 4. The overall 
pattern of Mr Hs borrowing for loans  five, six and ten means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse,  so these loans should be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN61775774Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6177577