K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr H said he would  not have  knowingly opted  for PPI. Halifax has said it would  have 
made the optional  nature of the policy clear and would have got Mr Hs consent to add 
the policy. Where theres a dispute about what happened, I have to base my decision on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened  taking into account all the evidence thats 
available.
Mr H and Halifax were unsure of how the policy was sold but Halifax  has said it would 
treat this as a branch  sale  considering the paperwork provided by Halifax  and because 
this puts more responsibility  on Halifax  I think thats right. I dont  know what would have 
been discussed in the meeting  but Halifax has given us a copy  of the PPI application. 
This shows it was completed  over a year after the mortgage was taken out. It sets out 
the monthly benefit required and the cost of the policy. And Mr H has signed the 
application.
So overall, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr H didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  thisnow, many 
years later.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN62571852To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6257185