K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how Great Lakes  Insurance SE (GL) dealt with his mobile phone 
insurance complaint.  My references  to GL include its agents.
background
Mr H bought his mobile  phone  in December 2015.  In January 2018 he claimed  on his mobile 
phone insurance  as the screen had broken. GL accepted  the claim and repaired the phone 
in February 2018.  In May 2018 Mr H claimed  for an unrelated matter which GL repaired.
In June 2018 Mr H had issues with the phone battery. He went to the phone manufacturer to 
have the battery  replaced who said the battery had already been replaced with another  
manufacturers battery so the phone manufacturers  warranty was invalid.
In September  2018 Mr H complained to GL as hed never claimed for the battery  to be 
repaired.
GL had replaced the battery as part of the February  2018 repair. It said it was obliged  to 
repair all incident related damage  and its technician thought it necessary to replace the 
battery. The policy didnt say replacement  parts would be from the relevant phone  
manufacturer. GL gave  a three  month warranty on a repair.  GL said as that period had 
expired Mr H would  need  to make a claim for a new battery.
Mr H complained to us. He said hed not mentioned the battery in his first claim and GL 
hadnt told him it had replaced the battery.  The phone manufacturer said a battery from any 
other manufacturer might not be safe and GL hadnt confirmed it was safe. He also said he 
had to get a new phone as GL needlessly replaced  his battery voiding his warranty.  He 
wants GL to pay the costs  of the new phone or a new battery from his original phones 
manufacturer.
GL provided more information about  why it had replaced the battery. 
Our investigator thought GL had done  nothing wrong in replacing the battery or in not using 
the phone  manufacturers battery.  Even though GLs warranty had expired a phone battery 
should last longer than it had. So GL should;  provide  a new battery  for Mr Hs original phone 
without him making  a new claim;  refund any postage costs for sending his phone; pay £50 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator also noted that Mr Hs phone purchase receipt said 2 year guarantee 
included, which ended  in December 2017. So the phone  manufacturers warranty  had 
expired before Mr H made his first claim and before GL replaced the battery.
Mr H doesnt agree and wants  an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN64351332Mr H has raised  many  points. Ill address the key issues to explain why Ive reached my 
decision.
The evidence from the phone purchase  receipt is that the phone  manufacturer's warranty 
had already expired before Mr H made his first claim and GL replaced the battery. So GLs 
actions didnt invalidate  the phone manufacturers  warranty. 
Mr H says the option to have the battery  replaced by the phone manufacturer  is part of the 
conditions of sale for his phone. But Mr H hasnt given any documentary evidence  to support 
that the phone manufacturer  replaces the battery for free outside of the warranty period  or 
that GLs replacement means it would no longer do so. It's for Mr H to provide evidence to 
support his complaint.
In any event, I think GL did reasonably replace  the battery. Its technician  told us:
The device came in for repair and due to the damage on the device, the chassis (back 
cover) required replacing. This requires the logic board and battery to be removed  from the 
damaged device and transferred to the replacement chassis.  The batteries in iPhones  are 
slightly soft and therefore often damage(d) when removing the battery. As a result the 
technicians would replace the battery for the customer as even the slightest of damage  
(which may not appear noticeable) could lead to a potential hazard. Therefore the battery 
would be replaced  when replacing a chassis on an iPhone due to the volatile nature of the 
component.
Mr H says its been established that GLs repairer damaged  his phones battery. Thats not 
what the technician  said. The above means  its possible  the damage  occurred during the 
repair required. Whether the battery was damaged by the claim incident or the repair the 
technicians expert  opinion is that GL replace the battery for safety reasons.
Mr H has mentioned the Consumer Rights Act 2015.  Under that legislation  GL has to 
perform its service under the policy with reasonable care and skill. The policy says that 
where parts of the phone have been accidentally damaged it will repair  or replace  the parts. 
I think replacing parts which GL thought  might  have been damaged (whether by the accident 
or resulting repair) and might be a safety  risk was to do a repair  with reasonable care and 
skill. 
The policy isnt specific to the make of Mr Hs phone. The policy  doesnt say the replacement  
parts will be parts made  or supplied  by Mr Hs phone manufacturer.  GL didnt have to use 
replacements from the phones manufacturer. It acted fairly in using a replacement battery 
from another manufacturer.
Mr H says his phone manufacturers store told him a third party battery  was potentially 
dangerous. Ive seen  Mr H's comments about GL's batterys safety. Mr H hasnt provided  
any documentary evidence to show that the battery  GL used is potentially dangerous, and as 
Ive said its for him to provide evidence to support his complaint. I havent seen any 
evidence to support  Mr Hs suggestion  that GL refused  to confirm the battery it used  is safe. 
The technicians report said the battery  tested ok.
I understand Mr H is unhappy  GL didnt tell him that it had changed the battery. But even if it 
had told him the battery needed to be replaced as part of the repair  Mr H would have 
effectively been  in the same position as now. GL only needed  to replace the battery  as its 
Ref: DRN64351333done. Mr H could have  said he wanted the phone returned without a battery  and may have 
been able to buy a battery  from the phone  manufacturer,  as he could  now.  
GL doesnt need to pay for a battery from the phone manufacturer or the cost of Mr Hs new 
phone.
However, GLs replacement battery should  have lasted more  than four months, which  is 
when Mr H says he first started having problems. In my experience of deciding  mobile  phone  
insurance cases, a battery life of four months isnt a reasonable lifespan. So GL should 
replace the battery without Mr H having  to make a separate claim and without him paying an 
excess, as GLs now agreed.
Mr H says if I decide GL should replace the battery  I should  ask the phone manufacturer  
how long a battery repair should  last so the repair  can be judged.  Im not going  to do so. If 
Mr H does have a problem with the new replacement battery  he can get the evidence he 
suggests if he thinks the new batterys lifespan  is too short.
GL should refund any reasonable postage  costs  Mr H incurs for sending  his phone  to it for 
the new replacement  battery to be fitted, as its now agreed
As to compensation, Mr H says hes been  without  having a fully useable  phone for most of 
the year. He made  two claims  which resulted  in GL repairing the phone.  If he has concerns  
about the speed of those repairs he needs to make a separate  complaint to GL. Hes 
mentioned he had to pay £17 for a redirection of address for the phone.  Its not clear which 
claim that related  to but that would also need  to be part of a separate  complaint.
I dont generally award compensation for the time a consumer spent to make  a complaint, 
and theres no reason  for me to do so in this case.
Mr H had the inconvenience of his phone  battery  not working when it should have done. He 
told GL about  the battery in September. I dont  know  when he bought his new phone but 
hed done so by the time he complained to us, which wasnt  long after he complained  to GL. 
I think £50 is a reasonable  amount  of compensation for Mr Hs distress and inconvenience 
that GLs responsible for.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Great Lakes  Insurance SE to:
supply and fit a new battery for Mr Hs phone without him making  a new claim or 
paying an excess, and 
refund  to Mr H any reasonable postage costs for sending his phone to it for that 
replacement, and
pay him £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience, as its now agreed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6435133