K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service he received from BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) following the voluntary termination  of his car under a hire purchase  agreement.  
When I refer to BMWFS  Im also referring to any of their appointed  agents or 
representatives. 
background
Mr W acquired a car in February 2015  using a hire purchase agreement  from BMWFS.  In 
January 2018  Mr W decided he no longer wanted  the car, and contacted BMWFS  to arrange 
to voluntary terminate  his agreement. After  an initial delay,  the information  regarding 
voluntary termination  was sent to Mr W in early February  2018  and returned by him the 
same day. 
A few days  later BMWFS collection agent  arrived at Mr Ws house  to collect  the car. Mr W 
wasnt there so his wife dealt with the agent.  The agent was there  to drive the car away, but 
an inspection of the car for damage  was also needed, and the inspector hadnt turned up. 
The agent  waited  in Mr Ws car for a while and when the inspector hadnt arrived, he 
returned the keys to Mr W and said someone  else would be there  later in the day.
Mr W called  BMWFS and was told both collections agent and inspector would be there 
shortly. Although  not when expected, the inspector arrived  first and said the agent was on 
his way. When the agent arrived, Mr W asked for some formal  identification. Mr W has said 
the agent was reluctant to give this at first, merely pointing to the badge on his jacket, but 
formal identification  was given eventually, and the car was inspected and taken away. 
Mr W complained  to BMWFS at this point. He said that the process wasnt  what he had 
expected of BMWFS,  having been  a customer of theirs for many years. BMWFS apologised 
to Mr W for the service  hed received  and confirmed theyd  also passed it to their collection 
agent team, who also apologised to Mr W through BMWFS. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this. He brought his complaint to our service. Not only was he 
unhappy with the service  when voluntarily terminating his agreement,  he was also unhappy  
with a couple of aspects  of BMWFS service. He said hed been  told that a soft footprint 
would be left on his credit file when the voluntary termination was discussed, which he felt 
was intimidating and had been  said to try and change  his mind to hand the car back. He was 
also dissatisfied that BMWFS hadnt  allowed him enough time to settle the amount  he had to 
pay for exceeding his stated mileage on the agreement.  Mr W said BMWFS letter  took five 
days to reach him, and only allowed him a couple of days to respond. Even  though he 
responded and sent a payment for the stated amount the same day, Mr W received a further 
letter a week  later from BMWFS explaining  that he hadnt paid. He was unhappy with some  
of the wording of this letter.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said that she wasnt  aware of any 
impact on Mr Ws credit  file as a result of a soft search being undertaken. She thought  that 
BMWFS apology was enough when considering what had happened when the car was 
being collected. And she said she didnt  think BMWFS had acted unreasonably when asking  
Mr W for his excess mileage payment. 
Ref: DRN63239352Mr W didnt accept this. He said he didnt  think our service should condone intimidation and 
he wanted to make sure the process wasnt  the same for others. 
As Mr W didnt agree,  its been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking 
BMWFS to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
To begin with, Id like to explain that this decision wont say Mr W was or wasnt  intimidated. 
As he has said himself, only the person involved can say how they felt at the time and I have 
no reason to believe he didnt feel as he said he did. But its my role to decide  if what 
BMWFS have done is reasonable.  And that is what Im focussing  on in this decision. 
Mr W has said that BMWFS told him his request  to voluntary terminate his car would leave  a 
soft footprint on his credit  file, which he feels was a method  to pressure him into not going 
through with the voluntary  termination. The telephone call between Mr W and BMWFS isnt 
available, and I have  no reason to doubt  Mr W was told this by BMWFS  but I dont think  it 
impacted Mr Ws decision  detrimentally.  A soft footprint or soft search isnt visible  to any 
other lenders and doesnt show on a credit  file. Its not exactly clear  what  BMWFS were 
referring to but Mr W still went ahead as he no longer  wanted  the car. Further,  Mr W hasnt 
said that anything  adverse  has been  recorded on his credit file so BMWFS  actions havent  
caused a loss. 
BMWFS have apologised to Mr W for the service he and his wife received  when  the car was 
being collected. I think this is reasonable. From  what our service has seen previously, I think 
its likely  BMWFS would have given Mr W a date for collection rather  than a specific  time so, 
whilst the service wasnt what  Mr W wanted or what BMWFS would promote, the car was 
still collected on the date it was confirmed  it would be. 
Mr W is unhappy with BMWFS process  for sending out letters, as they didnt allow  him 
enough time to respond and to prevent a follow  up letter being received stating that he was 
behind with his payments  and mentioning default sums and interest being applied. I 
understand Mr Ws frustrations with this, but it is for BMWFS to determine how and when 
they will correspond with their customers  I cant intervene in that. However, I do think  the 
timeframe BMWFS gave  was fairly  short, considering when  the letter was actually sent to 
Mr W, and this did cause him some worry. But I have evidence to show  that Mr Ws payment 
was received and processed, his account  was cleared and there  wasnt  any interest  applied  
to the amount due. Nothing  has been reported  on his credit  file either to indicate there was a 
problem with his finances. So, I cant see any financial impact to Mr W, and I wont  be asking 
BMWFS to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2021.
Ref: DRN63239353Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6323935