K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (T/A Halifax) irresponsibly lent to him when it 
approved his online application for a student  bank account with an overdraft facility. He is 
also unhappy that it didnt send him a cash or debit card for his account and that it didnt take 
notice when his father  told the bank it shouldnt lend to him. 
background
In November 2017 Mr J applied online for a student  account with Halifax. His application  was 
approved and he was given an interest  free overdraft of £1,500. At this time Mr J was a 
second year student.  
Mr J said when he applied for his account with Halifax  he was in financial difficulties and 
already had a number  of overdrawn student accounts with other  banks. He also said after he 
was given his overdraft he withdrew the entire amount within two weeks.  And he didnt pay 
any money into his account  after it was opened. Because there was no account activity,  
Halifax removed Mr Js overdraft facility and asked Mr J to repay the money owed. But Mr J 
didnt make any payments  and he said he wasnt  intending to repay the overdraft debt or set 
up a repayment  plan. So, in September 2018  Halifax closed Mr Js account and transferred it 
to its consumer debt recovery  department.
When Mr J complained to Halifax he said it had acted irresponsibly when it opened his 
account and gave him an overdraft facility. He thought the bank hadnt undertaken 
appropriate affordability checks. So, he asked  Halifax to write off what he owed as a 
resolution to his complaint. Halifax didnt agree and said it hadnt lent money  to Mr J 
irresponsibly or done anything wrong.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response and complained to this service.  When our 
investigator looked into Mr Js complaint he didnt uphold  it. He didnt agree that Halifax had 
acted irresponsibly when  it allowed Mr J to open the account or when it provided him with an 
overdraft facility. And he also thought Halifax had properly assessed that Mr J had met its 
lending and affordability criteria before  it approved his application to open his account and 
gave him an overdraft facility. But Mr J disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  that Mr J will be disappointed with 
my decision  but having looked at all the information  I wont  be upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I think its important to say at the outset that while Mr J has referred complaints about  a 
number of his bank accounts to our service, they are being dealt with separately  by our 
service. This complaint is about whether Halifax made an error when it approved  his 
application for a student bank account  and gave him an overdraft facility. So I will restrict my 
comments to what  Halifax did here.
I understand the reasons  Mr J has brought this complaint to our service  and I acknowledge 
his strength of feelings about  this matter. He feels Halifax  shouldnt  have let him open  his 
student account in November 2017 because, at that time, he was a student and already had 
Ref: DRN67983642multiple similar accounts that were overdrawn. So, in looking at whats  fair and reasonable 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr J and Halifax have said.
Here, Halifax  was required  to undertake affordability  checks  before agreeing to lend to Mr J. 
And it needed to check he would be able to afford to repay  any new borrowing in a 
sustainable manner.  The affordability checks a lender  carries  out should  be proportionate to 
the size of the loan, the cost of repayment and a customers lending history.  But we cant  say 
a lender shouldve done any particular checks.  It uses its lending criteria to come to its 
decision. Its entitled to set those criteria  using  its commercial  judgement  and it doesnt have 
to share  its criteria  with us. 
Ill say at the outset,  based on what Ive seen, I think Halifax undertook  reasonable 
affordability checks before it agreed to provide Mr J with a student account and overdraft 
facility. And I also think the checks it undertook were proportionate to the overdraft  facility  it 
was offering Mr J  as wed expect.  I say this because Halifax  said when Mr J made his 
application it considered the information  he had provided about his income,  and expenditure 
and it assessed  his personal circumstances,  credit score and information obtained from 
credit reference agencies. Halifax said, having  assessed all of this information,  it was 
satisfied Mr J met its lending criteria  and that he could afford to borrow what it was prepared 
to offer him. It also said the information it had had access to wouldnt have shown Mr J had 
student accounts elsewhere because it would only have given Halifax an indication  of his 
likely ability to repay the borrowing.  
Halifax knew Mr J was a student  because it had verified his student status and his identity. 
And Mr J was being offered an interest free overdraft, which  Halifax  didnt expect  him to 
need to repay before  graduating or commencing employment. Ive seen the information Mr J 
gave Halifax as part of the online application  process. He said he was living  with his parents, 
had a monthly income of £1,000 and no outgoings. The amount of overdraft Halifax offered 
Mr J was relatively low compared to the disposable income Mr J said he had available  to him 
each month. 
Mr J feels Halifax  shouldve asked for proof  of his income and outgoings but Halifax  said it 
isnt required to obtain proof  of income when  agreeing to lend on an unsecured  basis.  It 
explained that this is standard industry practice, which it followed.  And I also think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to rely on the information  Mr J had provided about  his income and 
outgoings in good faith because, having undertaken affordability assessments and credit  
scoring, it had no reason  to doubt it. So, Im not persuaded it needed to ask Mr J for 
evidence or to cross reference or check this information elsewhere.
Based on the information Halifax had at the time of Mr Js application, Im satisfied it did 
enough to check  the affordability  of the overdraft facility it gave Mr J. And I think  it acted 
reasonably in thinking the overdraft facility it was offering Mr J was affordable.
I recognise Mr J feels Halifax acted irresponsibly when it allowed him to open  the student  
account and when it offered the overdraft  facility of £1,500. Irresponsible  lending  is not just 
about whether  Mr J could  afford to repay the credit  or not  its whether theres another 
reason he shouldnt have had the credit. Mr J feels he shouldnt have been given the 
account and overdraft facility because he was a student and already had a number  of other 
overdrawn student accounts. But lenders shouldnt refuse to open an account  just because 
someone is a student. Here, Halifax said it agrees  to lend to students on the understanding  
that the borrowing will be repaid when they graduate and their income is higher, which it said 
is industry standard practice. It also said it has a designated account for those in full time 
Ref: DRN67983643education and that it opened a student account for Mr J, which  I think  was appropriate here. 
And while Mr J already had multiple  accounts that were already overdrawn Halifax didnt  
know about them at the time he applied to open his account.
I know that Mr J feels that Halifax shouldve been  aware that he had student accounts  and 
overdrafts with other banks before it approved his overdraft facility. But Mr Js credit  report 
wouldnt have shown  his accounts elsewhere  were student accounts.  Instead, it would only 
have shown that any other accounts were current accounts.  I say this because I can see 
from Mr Js credit report that the student account  he opened in 2014 shows as a current  
account. 
And I also think it wouldve been difficult for Halifax to appreciate  the nature of Mr Js 
banking elsewhere  unless he volunteered this information. I say this because  within  four 
weeks of Mr J applying for his account  with Halifax he had also applied for three other 
student accounts, which were approved with overdraft facilities. Because a credit report can 
take longer than four weeks to update,  Im satisfied that when Mr J applied for his Halifax 
account, his credit report would, most likely, have only shown an account from 2014 and 
wouldnt have included  information about his applications in October and November 2017. 
While Mr J told Halifax about the account he opened  in 2014 he didnt  alert Halifax  to his 
recently opened student accounts. So, I think Halifax  this hampered Halifax in gaining  a true 
picture of how Mr J was managing his finances with other banks. And I also think, in view of 
the information Halifax had available, its decision to give Mr J an overdraft facility was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Having decided to approve Mr Js application  for a student account with an overdraft facility  
Mr J was able to use it as and when he needed. Halifax has said the overdraft was provided 
to Mr J on an interest free basis  and that it wasnt repayable until he graduated or 
commenced employment. But it also said, in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr 
Js student account, it could withdraw the overdraft  facility at any time and this could happen 
were a customer didnt make regular credits  to their account. Here, Mr J didnt  deposit  any 
money into his account after he had withdrawn  the full overdraft facility. And having seen the 
terms and conditions of Mr Js account  I think Halifax acted  in line with those terms when  it 
asked him to repay what he owed. So, it follows that I think its decision to ask Mr J to repay 
his overdraft was reasonable  and, when he said he wouldnt repay it, I think it acted 
reasonably in starting its collection  process.  
I havent seen  evidence that Mr J told Halifax he was experiencing financial difficulties prior 
to 2018 or that he did anything at the time of the application that wouldve alerted the bank to 
any problems before it agreed  to lend to him. A bank has a responsibility  for responding 
positively and sympathetically when it knows a customer is in financial difficulties. It should 
try and understand a customers difficulties and it should act sensitively when its dealing 
with a vulnerable  customer. But it can be difficult for a business to pick up on these issues  
unless the consumer tells it. I can see that he raised issues  of financial difficulty  and 
affordability in July 2018, when he made  his complaint to Halifax. 
Mr J says he wont repay the money owed to Halifax. While I sympathise with the situation  
Mr J finds himself in I dont think the bank acted  irresponsibly when it opened  his bank 
account and gave him the overdraft facility  for the reasons already outlined.  I can see that, 
now Halifax is aware of Mr Js financial  difficulties  and that hes a vulnerable customer.  It 
has an obligation to act sensitively, positively and sympathetically towards him. Mr J hasnt 
incurred charges or interest. And from what Ive seen its already offered to assist him by 
allowing him to set up a repayment plan. I think this is fair and reasonable and is in line with 
Ref: DRN67983644what wed expect to see. I can see our investigator  has signposted him to a debt advice 
service, which  can help him here. From what Ive seen Halifax  also gave detailed information 
to Mr J about debt organisations in its letter of September 2018. 
I understand that Mr Js father wrote to Halifax on 1 August 2018 to complain about what 
had happened. He said he had become  aware  that Mr J had been attempting to open 
multiple current accounts and he had returned the post Mr J had been receiving, which 
included debit cards. But, based  on the evidence Ive seen, by this time Halifax had already 
approved Mr Js account application.  And Mr J had already withdrawn  his overdraft months  
prior to his father becoming involved. So, I cant say Halifax did anything wrong in relation to 
this part of Mr Js complaint.
Finally, Mr J has complained that Halifax didnt  send him a cash  or debit card. But based  on 
the email Mr Js father sent Halifax this was received  at Mr Js parents  home  address. And it 
was Mr Js father who chose not to give it to him. So, I cant  agree with this part of Mr Js 
complaint for these  reasons.
Mr J has said he would  like his complaint to be resolved by Halifax  writing off this debt.  But I 
dont think this would be fair here because, for the reasons outlined, Im not persuaded that 
Halifax has done anything  wrong  here. So I wont be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6798364