K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains  that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC let him go over his overdraft  limit by a large  
amount.  To settle  matters  hed like the debt written  off.
background
Mr Hs current  account  with Barclays  had an arranged  overdraft  limit of £1,000.  From  
January  2018  Mr H started  going  over this limit by making  regular  cash  machine  
withdrawals.  He told us he had mental  health  and drug problems  at the time.  By 
November  2018  his account  was overdrawn  by more  than £13,000  and Barclays  
froze  his account.
Mr H complained  to Barclays  about  this in November  2018.  Barclays  spoke  to him and 
said itd made  an error  in allowing  him to withdraw  the funds,  as itd accidentally  put a 
funds  override  marker  on his account.  However,  it said that as hed had use of the 
funds  he would  need  to repay  the amount  outstanding.  Shortly  after this Barclays  sent 
a summary  resolution  communication  which  referenced  the discussion  itd had with 
him.
Unhappy  with Barclays  response,  Mr H brought  his complaint  to our service.  He feels  
that it was Barclays  fault that a funds  override  marker  was placed  on this account  and 
that his debt should  be written  off.
Since  the involvement  of our service  Barclays  has agreed  to waive  all interest  and 
charges  applied  from January  2018.  It also offered  £150  compensation  for any 
distress  caused  by the error.  However,  it said it wouldnt  write  off the debt as Mr H 
wants.
Our investigator  didnt  recommend  that Barclays  should  write  off the debt because  
Mr H had used  the funds  so he thought  it fair that Mr H should  repay  his 
overdrawn  balance.  The investigator  noted  that Barclays  had agreed  to waive  
interest  and charges  applied  from when  the issue  started  in January  2018  so he 
thought  Barclays  had now acted  fairly.
Our investigator  thought  Barclays  offer of £150  for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused  to Mr H was appropriate  because  he thought  Mr H should have taken steps to 
minimise the impact  of the mistake  and Mr H had a responsibility to stop making  the 
withdrawals or to have  notified Barclays of the problem so it could be rectified.
Our investigator  thought  Barclays  had treated  Mr H positively  and sympathetically  
in light of his financial  difficulties  because  following  a review  of Mr Hs income  and 
expenditure  this showed  he had negative  monthly  income  so our investigator  
didnt  think  Barclays  was able to offer any further  help in these  circumstances.
Mr H disagreed  with the investigators  view and requested  an ombudsmans  decision.
I recently  issued  my provisional  decision  in which  I said:
Ref: DRN69674442Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Its not disputed  and Barclays  accepts  it placed  a funds  override  marker  on Mr Hs 
account  in error.  I think  the situation  Mr H now finds  himself  in has come  about  as a 
result  of Barclays  error  because  it meant  Mr H was able to withdraw  funds  from his 
account  in excess  of the £1,000  overdraft  facility  hed agreed  with Barclays  through  no 
fault on his part. And it doesnt  appear  there  was a limit on the amount  he was able to 
withdraw.
While  its generally  at Barclays  discretion  to allow  payments  if a customer  asks  for 
them  to be made  over an arranged  overdraft  limit thats  not the case  here.  And Mr H 
didnt  ask Barclays  to extend  his overdraft  either.  When  things  go wrong  - as they did 
here - my role is to look at the impact  the mistake  had on Mr H and to reach  an 
impartial  decision  about  what  Barclays  needs  to do to put matters  right.
The terms  and conditions  of Mr Hs account  say that any request  for an overdraft  
facility  "depends  on your financial  situation".  Normally  before  agreeing  to lend or 
before  significantly  extending  an overdraft  facility  Id expect  Barclays  to review  Mr Hs 
financial  circumstances  and to undertake  proportionate  checks  to ensure  he could  
repay  the amount  borrowed  in a sustainable  way.
As the funds  override  marker  was placed  on Mr Hs account  in error  and as he didnt  
ask for his overdraft  to be extended,  I havent  seen  anything  to suggest  Barclays  
reviewed  his financial  circumstances  or undertook  the checks  Id normally  expect  a 
lender  to make  to ensure  he could  repay  the amount  borrowed  in a sustainable  way.  I 
realise  this was most  likely  because  the funds  override  marker  was placed  on Mr Hs 
in error  but it wasnt  Mr Hs fault that the funds  override  marker  was placed  on his 
account  in error  either.
Having  placed  the funds  override  marker  on Mr Hs account  Id still expect  Barclays  to 
monitor  his account  on an on-going  basis  to ensure  it remained  affordable  and 
appropriate  for him. The terms  and conditions  say:
"Responsible lending is important to us. before and after you have  the facility.  So we will 
reassess your facility from time to time to make sure it remains  affordable  and appropriate 
to your circumstances.  If we feel its appropriate to change or remove your limit(s).  well tell 
you at the time and set a different limit (or cancel  the facility).
I dont  think  Barclays  did enough  to monitor  Mr Hs account  as it should  have  done.  
Barclays  collections  notes  show  it was aware  in January  2018  that Mr H was actively  
overspending  due to the funds  override  marker.  The notes  show  his account  as 
escalated  for review  and this triggered  Barclays  writing  a letter  to him at the end of 
January  2018  to tell him his account  was overdrawn  by £3,851.14 .
Although  Barclays  notes  show  it was aware  that Mr H was actively  overspending  in 
January  2018,  I havent  seen  anything  to suggest  it monitored  his account  after this 
date or that it contacted  him to tell him about  his increasingly  overdrawn  balance.  The 
information  Ive seen  shows  that it wasnt  until October  2018  that Barclays  contacted  
Mr H again  - to tell him his facility  had been  withdrawn.  However,  by this time his 
Ref: DRN69674443balance  was more  than £13,000  overdrawn  because  Mr H was able to withdraw  funds  
from his account  as a result  of the funds  override  marker  that was placed  on his 
account  in error.
This service  is impartial  between,  and independent  of, consumers  and businesses.  
This means  that we dont  represent  either  party.  Were  required  to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable  having  assessed  all the available  evidence  from the parties.  Ive made  
a finding  that Mr H was only able to become  overdrawn  by more  than £13,000  due to 
the funds  override  marker  that was placed  on his account  in error  Ive given  a lot of 
thought  about  what  needs  to be done  to put matters  right here.
The investigator  has already  explained  that in most  cases,  where  credit  has been  
provided  when  it shouldnt  have  been,  it would  be fair and reasonable  for the lender  to 
refund  any charges  plus interest  - and I note Barclays  has agreed  to do this. Id also 
normally  expect  the consumer  to pay back  the amount  borrowed  because  theyve  had 
the benefit  of the money  borrowed.
Having  said that, in the particular  circumstances  of this complaint  I dont  think  a simple  
refund  of the interest  and charges  goes  far enough.  I appreciate  that Barclays  
systems  may not have  picked  up the mistake  but thats  Mr Hs fault.  Ive already  
explained  above  that Barclays  notes  show  his account  was escalated  for review  and 
this triggered  Barclays  writing  to Mr H in January  2018  to tell him his account  was 
overdrawn  by £3,851.14.  At this point  I think  it should  have  taken  more  steps  to 
understand  why that was and it should  have  taken  steps  to monitor  his account  more  
closely  after this date.  Theres  nothing  to suggest  it monitored  his account  between  
January  2018  until it wrote  to him again  in October  2018  and this meant  Mr Hs 
account  became  further  overdrawn  as a result  of Barclays  mistake.
I think  a fair and reasonable  outcome  is to ask Barclays  to write  off Mr Hs balance  to 
£3,851.14.  I say this because  this was the amount  of Mr Hs overdrawn  balance  on 
26 January  2018  - and this is the date Barclays  internal  notes  show  it was aware  he 
was actively  overspending  and when  it was aware  hed already  exceeded  his agreed  
overdraft  limit by a considerable  amount.  I think  its at this point  that Barclays  should  
have  done  more  to investigate  why this was and to monitor  his account  more  closely  but 
as I explained  above  I havent  seen  anything  to suggest  it did this until it wrote  to him 
again  in October.
I agree  with the investigator  that Id normally  expect  a consumer  to take some  
responsibility  to minimise  the impact  of the mistake.  Im mindful,  however,  that here 
Mr H told us he had mental  health  issues  and a drug problem  at the time and hes 
provided  to us a letter  from his GP practice  which  supports  this. I havent  seen  
anything  to suggest  he told Barclays  about  his problems  at the time but Im persuaded  
he might  have  found  it more  difficult  to positively  stop himself  from spending  money  
that was so easily  made  available  to him - through  no fault of his -or to report  the 
problem  to Barclays  given  what  hes told us about  his mental  health  and drug 
problem.
I think  my recommendation  that Mr Hs debt should  be written  off to £3,851.14  is also 
fair to both parties  because  it still leaves  Mr H with a debt of £3,851.14  and therefore  
Ref: DRN69674444recognises  that he has had the benefit  of the money  hed spent  by the time Barclays  
wrote  to him in January  2018.
I can see that Barclays  has obtained  details  of Mr Hs income  and expenditure  and 
this shows  he has negative  monthly  income.  Even  if his debt is written  off to 
£3,851.14  I realise  Mr H may find it difficult  to repay  this. In light of Mr Hs personal  
circumstances  Id expect  Barclays  to treat him positively  and sympathetically  
regarding  repayment  of this amount.
Im also intending  to say that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC should:
remove  any adverse  information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit  file for events  
occurring  after 26 January  2018;
refund  interest  and charges  applied  to his account  from 1 January  2018;  
and
pay £150  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H hasnt provided any further submissions for my consideration.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision. It agrees to write off Mr Hs debt to 
£3,851.44 and to pay £150.00  for the distress and inconvenience caused. However, it 
doesnt agree that Mr Hs credit file should  be cleared completely. It thinks the amount owed 
by Mr H as of 26 January  2018 should show as defaulted  from July 2018 because  Mr H is 
not  and wasnt at the time  in a position to repay the debt due to his negative  monthly 
disposable income. In terms of the remaining balance of Mr Hs debt Barclays says this will 
be dealt with in line with its normal Collections and Recoveries process.
Ive taken  into account  Barclays  further  comments.  I set out in my provisional  decision  
why I thought  the situation  Mr H now finds  himself  had largely  come  about  as a result  
of Barclays  error  in placing  the funds  override  marker  on his account.  Barclays  
shouldnt have given  Mr H the level of borrowing it did and Mr H shouldnt be 
disadvantaged by that.
The information  available  to me shows  that Barclays  didnt  default  Mr Hs account  in 
2018  - when  it became  aware  itd placed  the funds  override  marker  on his account  in 
error.  I have  no way of knowing  what  would  have  happened  had it done  so. But I dont  
think  it automatically  follows  that Mr H would  have  been  unable  to pay had Barclays  
defaulted  his account  at the time.  He may,  for example,  have  asked  for help from his 
family  and friends  in repaying  the amount  detailed  in a notice  of default.  He may have  
entered  into a payment  arrangement.  In any event  we are now several  years  after the 
event  and its difficult  to know  what  would  have  happened  here with any degree  of 
certainty.
Ref: DRN69674445I recognised in my provisional decision that Mr H should pay back the amount  hed 
borrowed as of 26 January 2018  but beyond that I dont think  its fair that he should  be 
impacted further  due to Barclays mistake. But even taking into account Barclays  
comments about Mr Hs ability to repay what was outstanding, this is an unusual case 
where a small mistake has had a huge  impact  on a customer. The individual circumstances 
here are unique enough for me to decide that there is no fair or accurate way of recording 
what happened here and what the position will now be on Mr Hs credit file in a way that 
doesnt disadvantage him disproportionately. It follows that I remain of the opinion that 
Barclays should remove any adverse data from Mr Hs credit  file for events occurring after 
26 January 2018.
In terms of dealing  with the adjusted remaining balance, Mr H should speak to Barclays to 
agree a suitable way of dealing with this and Id expect Barclays to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in doing  so.
It follows that I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions I set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I am upholding this complaint and I 
require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:-
write  off Mr Hs debt to £3,851.14;
remove  any adverse  information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit  file for events  
occurring  after 26 January  2018;
refund  interest  and charges  applied  to his account  from 1 January  2018;  and
pay £150  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6967444