K820x#14Complaint
Messrs and Mrs C complain that National Westminster  Bank  Plc didnt inform  them  of a 
change to its lending  policy,  meaning they wouldnt be allowed further borrowing on their 
mortgage.
Background
Messrs and Mrs Cs mortgage with NatWest started in 2009. They  successfully applied  for a 
two-year fixed rate in 2018. As part of that agreement they would be required to pay an early 
redemption charge (ERC) if they redeemed the mortgage or changed  deal within two years. 
In 2019 Messrs  and Mrs C applied for a further advance on their mortgage. NatWest  
declined the application because of a change to its lending policy that meant  it would no 
longer lend on mortgages with more than two applicants. 
NatWest accepted an application  from Messrs and Mrs C for a further advance  in 2012 and 
for different deals  throughout the mortgage term.
Messrs and Mrs C say NatWest  shouldve made  them aware of the change in lending policy. 
They say they wouldnt have applied for the two-year  fixed rate deal had they known they 
wouldnt be able to borrow  any more  money via their mortgage with NatWest.  So they think  
NatWest should  waive the ERC applicable if they redeem  the mortgage  early. They  
complained to NatWest.  
In its final response letter,  NatWest confirmed its current  policy says it wont  agree mortgage 
borrowing for more than two applicants. And it says its under no obligation to inform 
customers when it makes  changes to its lending policy  and will only do so if a customer 
makes a specific enquiry.  It suggested Messrs and Mrs C remove  an applicant from the 
mortgage, but theyve confirmed they dont want to do that.
Messrs and Mrs C asked this Service to look into their complaint. Shortly  after doing so, they 
moved their mortgage to another lender and incurred the ERC from NatWest. To resolve 
their complaint, they want NatWest to refund the ERC.
Our investigator found that NatWest hadnt done  anything wrong.  She said                   
Messrs and Mrs C applied for the two-year fixed deal online and hadnt received any advice  
from NatWest.  She explained that the changes  were to NatWests  internal policies and not 
part of the mortgage terms. She also said that, had NatWest  informed Messrs  and Mrs C of 
the change to its lending policy, they would still have had to have paid the ERC.
Messrs and Mrs C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman  
for a final decision.  They  say they wouldnt have had to pay the ERC  because they wouldnt 
have applied  for the two-year fixed  deal had they known about the change in lending  policy. 
They also say that, if lenders  arent  required to tell customers of changes to lending  policy, 
its a significant  oversight  by the regulatory regime.
Our investigator referred  Messrs and Mrs Cs complaint to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ref: DRN64304152Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator, for mostly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
To decide this case, Ive considered whether it was reasonable for NatWest  not to inform 
Messrs and Mrs C about the change in its lending  policy at the time of the change or at the 
time they applied for the two-year fixed rate. And whether it was fair for NatWest  to apply its 
ERC under these  circumstances.
Ive noted Messrs  and Mrs Cs comments about the regulator. But I dont have the power to 
consider a complaint about the regulator and this complaint is about NatWests  actions. So, 
the fairness of the regulators actions doesnt  form part of my decision.
The evidence Ive seen  doesnt make it clear  when NatWest changed its lending  criteria 
regarding the number of people it will lend to on a mortgage. Messrs and Mrs C say they 
were told it was 2017and evidence from the business suggests it was in 2013. But the fact 
that it was before Messrs and Mrs C applied for the two-year  fixed  rate doesnt seem to be in 
dispute. And that means, had they known about the change, they could have decided to 
move to a different  lender  for a new deal,  instead  of taking the two-year fixed rate with 
NatWest. So, I agree with Messrs  and Mrs C on that point.
The change in question  was to NatWests lending policy. That means it potentially affected  
anyone applying for mortgage  lending  from the date of the change. It wasnt applicable  to 
existing mortgages,  meaning there were no changes to the terms and conditions  of existing 
mortgages and those with more than two mortgagees werent required to make any 
changes. So, NatWest werent  required  to inform existing customers of this change  - either 
at the time of making  it, or if they make changes to their mortgage without applying for extra 
borrowing, as Messrs and Mrs C did in 2018.
I understand why Messrs and Mrs C feel aggrieved that they werent told of the change at 
the time of taking  the two-year fixed rate. And Ive acknowledged that this information may 
have influenced  their decision.  But Messrs and Mrs C didnt seek  advice at the time of 
applying for the deal  they applied online. So, a full assessment  of their needs and 
circumstances wasnt carried out. And, as they werent applying  for further borrowing at that 
time, I think its reasonable  that the change of lending policy wasnt brought  to their attention 
 NatWest couldnt have known theyd  want to borrow more money within the ERC  period.
As I dont think NatWest has done  anything wrong in not informing Messrs and Mrs C of its 
change in lending  policy, I dont think it was wrong to apply  the ERC. I say this because  
Messrs and Mrs C redeemed their mortgage  within the first year of the two-year ERC period. 
And I think the ERC conditions were made clear in the mortgage offer. So, I dont require 
NatWest to refund the ERC to Messrs and Mrs C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Messrs and Mrs Cs complaint about                
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Messrs and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Ref: DRN64304153Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6430415