K822xcomplaint  
Mr S says that a new car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with RCI Financial  
Services Limited ("RCIFS") wasn't of satisfactory  quality.
background 
In December 2014  Mr S entered into a three year hire purchase  agreement for a new 
car with RCIFS.  In March 2015 Mr S decided  to pay off the outstanding  credit amount 
and terminated  the agreement.
Around mid-2015  Mr S noticed  that the car's outside temperature sensor was intermittently  
giving widely ranging false readings (between -39 degrees and +60 degrees). He asked 
the dealership if they would look at the problem  but says that they told him if it was only 
happening sometimes they couldn't  investigate it unless he could provide  proof  of the fault.
Mr S says he raised the problem with the temperature sensor again  with the dealership  
when the car went  for its first service  in December 2015. He says the dealership  didn't 
take any action as they had no proof of the fault.
Mr S says he raised the problem with the dealership  in January, May and June  2016 but 
the fault still couldn't be found.
In December 2016  the car went for its second service and the fault with the outside  
temperature sensor was noted.  The car was booked in for the Combi Meter to be 
replaced  as per the manufacturer's recommendations.  The new part was fitted in January 
2017 and Mr S said that as a result of this repair the car's odometer was reset to 0. It 
had originally  read a little over 14,800.
Mr S says the problem  with the sensor continued  and he took the car back  to be checked 
in March  2017 but no fault could be found.  He also raised the fault at the third service in 
December 2017 but again  no fault could be traced.  
In January 2018 a second Combi Meter and new battery were fitted into the car which 
again  Mr S says resulted in the car's odometer  being reset  to 0. Mr S says this part didn't 
resolve  the problem with the sensor.
Mr S took the car back to the dealership in May 2018 and asked  that they keep it until 
the fault could  be rectified. No fault could be found.
In July 2018  Mr S took the car to another dealership  for them  to look at the problem. This 
dealership fitted a new battery in August  2018, on the recommendation of the manufacturer.  
But the fault with the sensor  still wasn't resolved.
Mr S complained to the RCIFS. He said that the existing fault with the sensor and the 
odometer no longer  providing the true mileage had affected the value of the car. He 
requeste d that RCIFS take back the car and pay him the value of the same car without 
these  faults, which he estimated as £8000. He said the car hadn't been of satisfactory 
quality when  he'd acquired it.
RCIFS declined Mr S's request to hand back the car and receive compensation. It said 
the dealership had been  unable to find any fault with the vehicle until its second service,  
which  was two years after the sale of the car. The manufacturer's technical team had 
Ref: DRN60544242advised  RCIFS that they believed the issue with the sensor was the result of the battery 
not being  sufficiently charged up enough to power  the outside temperature sensor  fully.
RCIFS said Mr S's ability  to use the car hadn't been affected by the faulty outside  
temperature sensor. And that the dealerships and manufacturer have all acted appropriately  
to address the issue. But as the cause of the problem  with the sensor  was due to the car 
not being used  sufficiently, this meant the car hadn't been defective at the point of sale.
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didn't recommend that his complaint 
should  be upheld. He said he didn't have enough  evidence to say the car was of 
unsatisfactory  quality at the point of sale. Although Mr S had raised an issue with the sensor 
in the months  after acquisition, no fault was found until two years later. And faults may 
reasonably be expected to arise over time.
He said the dealerships had attempted to fix the problem which had resulted in the 
odometer  being reset.  He accepted this had affected the value of the car, but said the repair 
had been  necessary to fix the problem.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator's view. He said the car's value  had depreciated  
further  than would be expected due to a manufacturing fault with the outside temperature 
sensor.  He did not accept the car wasn't used enough to charge the battery sufficiently.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint  was passed to me. I issued  a 
provisional  decision  along  the following  lines.  
Mr S said that he accepted the fault with the sensor was intermittent and so would've been  
difficult to trace. He said that the sensor was now continuously showing inaccurate readings  
and that fault, together with an odometer showing an inaccurate  mileage had resulted in the 
value  of the car now being lower than it shouldve be. He said this is supported by his being  
offered  £1000 less when seeking to part-exchange it recently.
It was agreed that Mr S had raised  the problem with the sensor several  times with the 
dealership.  The first time had been around 18 months earlier, and before a fault had 
been noted by the dealership  at the car's second service.
Under the Sales of Goods  Act 1979, goods are required  to be as described, of 
satisfactory  quality  and fit for purpose. If the goods were found to be faulty within the first 
six months  from acquiring them then it is for the retailer to show that the fault wasn't 
present at the point  of sale. If the fault arises after the first six months then the onus rests 
with the consumer to show the fault had been present at the point  of sale.
I was unclear when Mr S ad first noticed the fault with the sensor and I thought  from the 
chronology  he had set out it was around the six month stage. So I thought the onus was on 
Mr S to show that the car had an inherent  fault. RCIFS said thered  been  no fault as the 
problem with the sensor  was due to Mr S not using the car sufficiently  to charge up the 
battery adequately  to power  the sensor.
I appreciated that when a fault was intermittent it's difficult to prove  and difficult for a garage 
to repair. I'd seen that the car was inspected several times  with nothing being found.  
However , it was agreed a fault with the sensor was located in December 2016. This had 
resulted in the new Combi  Meter being fitted  and the odometer being reset  to zero.  At that 
time Mr S had driven  just short of 15,000 miles, having had the car for around 24 months. 
Ref: DRN60544243The average  use of a car is around 1,000 miles per month  so Mr S was driving fewer  miles 
than average.  However, I noted that at that time he wasn't advised the cause  of the problem 
was due to the battery being insufficiently  charged.
The problem  with the sensor continued and was now,  I understood, no longer intermittent  
but rather a constant misreading of the outside temperature. I'd seen  that thered  now been 
four attempts to fix the fault since  December  2016.
I thought Mr S had been consistent about the problem he said he'd experienced with the 
temperature sensor, and I thought  looking at the number of times he'd raised  the issue that 
the fault was present  before the second service when the fault was finally recognised  by 
the dealership. So I thought it was more likely than not the car had a fault at the point  of 
sale. I also didn't have sufficient evidence  to say that the problem  was the sole result of Mr 
S not sufficiently using the car to fully charge the battery. It wasn't  clear whether  that view 
was reached on the car's  true mileage,  or the lower inaccurate one taken from the reset  
odomete r (which was shown on the work invoices),  and although the usage was lower than 
usual it wasn't unusually or remarkably low.
RCIFS has queried whether the odometer was actually reset,  but I'm satisfied from the 
evidence that it was. Looking  at the work invoices  I'd seen that the current  stated mileage 
was far lower  than it was in the earlier  ones, and the only explanation  for this could be the 
resetting  of the odometer.
Although I accepted the car was developing a fault at the point of sale,  it didn't mean that 
the car could automatically be rejected. The fault was with the outside temperature sensor  
and I'd seen  that although this fault was frustrating to Mr S it hadn't affected his ability to 
use the car. Mr S said he considered this to be a safety feature and one he'd wanted the 
car to have as he'd found a similar sensor useful in a previous  car. However,  while I 
accepted he would've  been disappointed not to have this feature consistently available  to 
him, I thought rejecting  the car wasn't  a proportionate response to this feature not fully 
working. I also thought that it had limited applications as a safety feature.
I accepted that the fault and the reset odometer wouldve affected the resale  value of the 
car and so it was reasonable and fair for RCIFS to pay Mr S compensation for this as well 
as the distress and inconvenience this fault has caused him.
However I didn't have  sufficient evidence  that the car was now worth £1000  less than it 
shouldve  been.  Individual  garages  will set different  values for part-exchanges, so I couldn't 
say that one offer was indicative of the true level of a reduction in the car's worth.  I thought  
it was reasonable to say that this was a minor  fault and the car's true mileage was provable 
from the service book,  though the onus would be on Mr S to prove this when he sells 
the car on. 
On that basis,  I thought  a fair amount of compensation for Mr S was £500.
So I intended  to uphold Mr S's complaint and I required  RCIFS to pay him £500  
compensation for both the reduced  value of the car and the distress and inconvenience  
caused to him by the faulty outside temperature sensor.
Both  Mr S and RCIFS  have  agreed  with my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN60544244Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view and for the reasons given above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
And Im asking RCIFS to pay Mr S £500  compensation  for both the loss of value to the car 
and the distress and inconvenience caused  to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im asking  RCI Financial Services 
Limited to pay Mr S £500 compensation  for the loss of value in the car and for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6054424