K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited calculated  his no claims discount  (NCD)  
for his private health insurance policy.
Background
Mr P has had private health insurance  with BUPA since 2014.The  policy renews each year 
with BUPA  calculating the applicable NCD. Mr P complains  about how BUPA calculated his 
NCD for the 2018  policy renewal which meant  his NCD reduced and his premium increased 
considerably.
Mr P thinks  two particular aspects of BUPAs  NCD calculation  are unfair:
using the dates of making payment for treatment  rather than the date of treatment, 
and 
including claims processed  in the two months before the policy  year without taking 
into account any excess applicable  to that policy year. 
Mr P says BUPA hadnt stated explicitly that he could  incur a reduction in NCD even if the 
total of his claims in the calculation year didnt  exceed the excess  for the policy  year. And 
BUPAs policy  documents gave  the impression that his NCD wouldnt reduce until his claims 
were more than the excess. He wants BUPA to recalculate the NCD and premium for his 
2018/2019 policy as if there were no claims in the relevant calculation  period. He would be 
willing to pay the £300 for the treatments  processed  in April 2017 as part of a settlement.
BUPA said it had calculated the NCD in line with the terms in Mr Ps membership certificate. 
It said it wouldnt change the way the excess applies as it wouldnt be fair to its members.
Our investigator thought BUPA hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr P disagrees and wants an ombudsman's decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P believes strongly that BUPAs  NCD pricing  model is unfair. But how to price  its policy  is 
a commercial decision for the insurer. Were  not a regulator and I cant tell BUPA  to change  
its pricing model. Whilst our investigator referred  to previous decisions made by our service 
Ive considered the specific facts of Mr Ps case.
I can look at whether BUPA has treated Mr P fairly in the information that its given about 
how it will calculate the NCD  and whether  its assessed the NCD in line with the policy terms.
Mr Ps 2018  membership certificate  says:
When we calculate  your subscriptions  each Year we apply  a no claims discount  
based on the value of claims  (if any) we have approved for payment during the 
calculation period. We do not count any excess you are responsible for 
paying(Please note:  It may take several  weeks from the date of your Treatment for 
Ref: DRN67965062a claim to be approved  for payment, depending on how quickly  invoices are 
submitted to us.)
The calculation period is the first 10 months of your first Year  and, for subsequent 
Years, the first 10 months of the Year just ending, plus months 11 and 12 of the 
previous Year.
Policy documents  from the previous years Mr P was insured say similar  and BUPA gave the 
information in the policy sales call.
Mr Ps policy  renewed on 1 June 2018.  BUPA calculated  the NCD for the renewal looking at 
claims it paid within  the period of 1 April 2017  and 31 March 2018. BUPA had paid two 
claims within that period,  totalling £300, although  the claims were  for a consultation and 
treatments in February and March  2017.  
Mr P says he interpreted the information BUPA gave throughout the life of the policies to 
mean calculation  was based on treatment  dates and he hadnt  claimed  between  1 April 2017  
and 31 March 2018. He says his interpretation is reasonable because he and BUPA  dont 
have control over how long it takes medical practices  to send their bills.
But I think the wording  about how BUPA will calculate the NCD is clear enough that the 
relevant date is when  BUPA paid the claim. The note to make the policyholder aware  that it 
may take some weeks between treatment and BUPAs approval  of payment doesnt support 
Mr Ps interpretation.
Also BUPAs  2014 and 2015 NCD leaflets say:
How will claiming impact my No Claims Discount level?
The No Claims Discount  is only based  on claims paid by BUPA and so any claim you 
make wont  be taken  into account until the payment has been processed.
BUPA didnt  unreasonably  delay in paying the invoices once they were  received. I think 
BUPA calculated the NCD fairly  by referring to the claims it paid in April 2017.  
As to the excess, Mr P refers to the 2014  NCD leaflet that says:
In addition, any claims we pay for you during the calculation period that fall entirely 
within your excess will not be counted.
Mr P believes that wording means BUPA acted unfairly in not taking his £500 yearly excess  
into account against the £300 for treatment it paid.
But I think BUPAs documents throughout the life of the policies are clear  that the excess  
document needs to be read alongside the policy terms for excesses  generally  and the policy 
definition of year. The information shows that the calculation of the NCD is considered as 
different, and separate to, the excess period.
Mr P £500  policy  excess applies each policy year and its clear from the documents that his 
policy year is 1 June to 31 May. Thats not the same period BUPA  uses  to calculate the NCD 
which is also clearly set out.  
Ref: DRN67965063Ive seen Mr P's detailed  comments about  the effect the overlapping NCD and excess 
periods may have  and how thats  not explicitly explained by BUPAs documentation. But 
I think the documents are clear that the excess period  isnt the same as the NCD calculation 
period and if Mr P had concerns  about how the periods impacted on each he could have 
asked BUPA.
I dont think BUPAs been unreasonable to not highlight to Mr P how to make claims in order 
to keep his NCD  as low as possible. In addition, each policy renewal is effectively a new 
sale and I understand the policy sale was non-advised  which  means BUPA  didnt have any 
responsibility to make  sure the policies were right for Mr P.
BUPA has said its not going to change the way the excess applies to cover later claims 
made in the policy  year.  One reason it gives is that could mean Mr P paying  the equivalent 
of two excesses within  one policy year. I cant say BUPA must change the way it calculates 
the NCD for Mr Ps policy only.
I think BUPA has fairly applied the policy terms in Mr Ps case.
I appreciate Mr P believes BUPAs pricing  model has worked  against  him and he's unlikely 
to be able to change to another insurer without losing cover for existing medical conditions. 
But I cant reasonably  conclude that BUPA has acted unfairly.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6796506