K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained he was given unsuitable  advice by Pension Transfers  Limited (PTL), 
an appointed representative (AR) of Kingsway Wealth Management Limited (Kingsway),  to 
transfer his personal  pensions  to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP).  Mr D then 
invested in an unregulated overseas property  fund (Cyprus Two). 
background
Mr D says he was referred  to PTL by a regulated firm (Firm  A). PTL wrote to Mr D on 27 May 
2010. The letter said Mr D had been  introduced  (not by Firm A) but by a Mr B who worked 
for an unregulated business and who was also an adviser with a regulated firm (Firm B), an 
AR of a network. PTL said Mr D wanted  to review his pension  arrangements.  His objectives  
were to consolidate existing pension plans;  greater investment fund choice;  better 
investment performance; and to invest in a specific investment  property. His risk profile  
was medium. PTL said its advice  focused solely upon the viability of the transfer of [Mr Ds] 
personal pensions  into a SIPP and that investment  advice is to be subsequently provided 
by [Mr Ds] own financial adviser.
PTL recommended a transfer to a SIPP. PTL said, before proceeding, Mr D should confirm  
the SIPP provider  would  allow the specific investments he wished to make and, if not, the 
transfer shouldnt  proceed.  Once  the funds were transferred,  theyd be held in cash, pending 
Mr Ds investment decision. PTL wasnt offering advice about the investment of funds. Mr D 
needed to speak to his own financial adviser as cash might not match his risk profile.
Mr D signed a form on 8 June 2010  confirming  he wanted to proceed.  He acknowledged 
receipt of the suitability  report and that he understood PTL wasnt  offering investment advice. 
He signed the SIPP application  form on the same date. Mr B witnessed his signature. And 
the advisers details  (at section 6 of the form)  showed Mr Bs regulated  firm although the 
named adviser  wasnt Mr B.
Mr B called PTL on 30 June 2010 to check it had received the form and Mr Ds ID details 
(which Mr B had certified). PTL told Mr B it would be four to six weeks for the funds to be in 
the SIPP to be held in cash pending  their investment decisions with the SIPP provider only 
taking instructions from the regulated  advisers.
The SIPP provider wrote to Mr D on 14 July 2010 confirming the SIPP  had been set up and
transfer payments  requested. A total of £101,562.90  was later transferred into the SIPP.
Part 1 (authorised  financial advisers details)  of the application  form for the Cyprus  (Two) 
investment showed  Firm A, the individual advisers name (Mr A), Firm As FSA reference 
number and contact  details. It was signed by Mr A and dated 1 September 2010.  Part 4 was 
about commission. It had Mr As name, Firm As reference number, bank details and stamp.    
Firm A sent the application form to the SIPP provider on 7 September  2010 with a letter  
signed by Mr D dated 1 September 2010.  He said he wanted to change the adviser  details 
and future  servicing  rights  of the Cyprus (Two) investment to Mr A. But the business  named 
wasnt Firm A although the address was the same. I think it was unregulated.  
Mr D signed the SIPP providers unquoted share  purchase declaration on 10 September  
2010. He said he was aware that unlisted shares  were a high risk investment; there was a 
possibility that he could lose all of his investment; and that he entered  into the investment 
Ref: DRN69473792entirely at his own risk. He also indemnified  the SIPP provider  and confirmed hed taken 
appropriate legal and financial advice but hed had no advice  from the SIPP provider.
In August  2016  Mr D, through his representative, complained to Kingsway that hed been
given unsuitable  advice by PTL. Kingsway didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr D referred it to us. 
Kingsway initially  said the complaint had been made  too late and we couldnt  consider it.
I issued a decision in January 2017. I didnt agree the complaint was out of time. Although
Mr D had complained  more than six years  after the advice had been given, I thought hed 
complained within three  years of when he became aware (or ought reasonably to have 
become aware) he had cause for complaint. So we could consider the complaint.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. He said PTL was aware Mr D intended to use the 
SIPP to invest in commercial property. PTL advised  Mr D about  the suitability of the SIPP 
but not the investment.  PTL should have advised Mr D about the intended  investment.  
In response Kingsway said it was unfair  that Mr D had taken  advice from three regulated 
firms but it was only PTL that had been  found at fault. PTL had thought the commercial  
property would be in the UK, not overseas. Mr D had been directed to the investment by 
another adviser, four months after PTLs advice.  Kingsway also said the adjudicators view 
contradicted a decision made on another, similar, complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2017.  But my views later changed about redress 
and I issued a further provisional decision on 17 May 2018.  I upheld the complaint. I said 
Kingsway should  compensate Mr D for losses hed incurred both as a result of transferring to 
a SIPP  and investing the bulk of his pension fund in Cyprus (Two). In summary my 
provisional findings were: 
The regulator had told Kingsway  in December 2008 that, where  one firm was giving 
advice about the product and another about  the funds, it was difficult  to separate  
advice on the merits of joining a SIPP from the merits of particular  investment  assets  
to be held under that SIPP compared  to the funds and benefits  of the ceding 
scheme.
The alert issued  by the regulator in January 2013 post dated PTLs advice. But it 
restated the existing  position and reflected the principles  which  applied in 2010.
PTL couldnt  give advice about  the suitability of a SIPP  without considering how Mr D 
planned to invest.  Mr D may have thought that PTL was only advising on the 
suitability of the pension vehicle. But PTL couldnt seek  to limit its advice in that way.
PTL apparently thought Mr D wanted  to invest in UK commercial property. But PTL 
didnt explore exactly what Mr D planned  to invest in. PTL didnt think  it needed to 
know. But PTL couldnt give suitable  advice without considering  the underlying  
investment. If thered  been  some  discussion  PTL would have found out that Mr D 
intended to invest  in a high risk, unregulated overseas property fund.
The recommendation letter mentioned investing in residential  property  through a 
Genuinely Diverse  Commercial Vehicle  an unusual,  non-mainstream  investment. 
Cyprus (Two) involved the development of residential apartments in Cyprus. It wasnt  
clear why that sort of investment would be specifically mentioned unless Cyprus 
(Two) had already  been identified as the likely investment. 
Ref: DRN69473793Mr D was a medium  risk investor.  PTL should have realised that Cyprus (Two) wasnt  
suitable for him and didnt match his stated  attitude to risk.
Investing all Mr Ds pension provision in UK commercial property wouldnt have been 
suitable anyway.  M D apparently wanted greater  investment  choice and higher 
returns. That might include access to more specialised  property investments  which  
would generally  involve higher risk. PTL should  have discussed  that further with him, 
including whether he had the capacity for loss that might result. 
The projection comparing Mr Ds current pensions with the proposed  SIPP suggested  
hed be better off by not transferring. 
I didnt think a SIPP was suitable for him.
PTL wasnt the only party  involved. PTLs letter indicated Mr D was introduced by an 
unregulated firm. But the individual was also an adviser with Firm B (an AR of a 
network) who completed the SIPP application.  And the Cyprus (Two) application was 
completed by Firm A, another  regulated  firm. The SIPP provider is also regulated. 
But my view was that PTLs role was crucial. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Kingsway said wed failed to give any consideration to advice given by Mr Ds investment 
adviser, an AR of another business, on the basis that the advisers  principal wouldnt be 
liable for the advice. That was inconsistent with other decisions wed issued and didnt reflect 
the correct legal and regulatory position.  Kingsway had obtained a counsels opinion about 
the liability of principals for ARs under section 39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and the common law of agency. The main points were:  
In TenetConnect  Services Limited  v Financial Ombudsman [2018] EWHC 459 
(Admin) the AR had fraudulently misappropriated the proceeds  of the investment. 
TenetConnect argued the advice, about investing  in a property in India, was 
unregulated. The property wasnt a specified investment and so not business it had 
accepted responsibility for under section 39. It had only authorised its AR to advise 
on regulated investments dealt in by Tenet.  
The court rejected those arguments.  It wasnt possible to draw  a bright-line distinction 
between the regulated and unregulated  advice.  Where two kinds  of advice are 
connected, and are part of one broader activity, then the whole of that activity will be 
regulated. And, if the ARs acts were in the course  of carrying  out a regulated  activity,  
then the principal is liable under section 39(3). The terms of the AR agreement will 
not restrict that liability  it only operates between  the principal and the AR and 
doesnt affect the legal relationship between the principal and ultimate customer. 
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [2000]  Lloyds Reports P.N. 412 the consumer had been 
advised to enter into a package of transactions, including mortgaging his house. The 
advisers principal argued it wasnt responsible for anything  that wasnt  investment 
business or connected to its own products. But the court said investment business 
would encompass  advice as to associated  or ancillary transactions even where the 
latter were unregulated.  
Ref: DRN69473794In Ovcharenko  v Invest UK Ltd [2017]  EWCH 2114 (QB) the court didnt accept that a 
principal could evade liability because the contract had expressly forbidden the AR 
from certain activities or said the AR couldnt do anything which breached  legal 
requirements or limitations. The AR agreement wasnt entirely irrelevant   the 
principal must have authorised the AR to carry on the relevant category of regulated  
activity. But those  are to be taken at the level of generality defined  in the Regulated  
Activities Order  (RAO) to determine principal liability under section 39(3).  Any 
contractual terms which purport to restrict the ARs authority to a more limited  range 
of activities or investments will only be effective as between  the principal and the AR. 
Outside the statutory regime principals could be held liable under the common  law of 
agency. Where agency arises  (as in the Martin case) the principal will be liable for 
the acts and omissions of the AR within the scope of his actual or apparent authority. 
Kingsway also said my revised  provisional decision was based  on three propositions.  Ive set 
them out under  Kingsways headings and summarised what  Kingsway says about each.   
1.[PTL] had a duty to have regard to the intended  underlying investment when advising 
on the suitability  of the SIPP.
PTLs contract made it clear  to Mr D what services were and werent being offered. 
PTLs authority to offer regulated advice arose solely as an AR of Kingsway.  The AR 
agreement restricted the services  PTL was authorised to provide. It would have 
breached the AR agreement had PTL purported to advise on designated  investments 
other than the SIPP itself. 
Nothing in COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) required PTL to advise on the 
underlying investments.  It couldnt by contract exclude its regulatory  obligations  
(COBS 2.1.2R).  It was bound by the clients  best interests rule (COBS 2.1.1R and 
COBS 2.1.3G). COBS  2.2.1R required a firm to provide information so the client  
could understand  the nature and risks of the service and the specific  type of 
investment being offered. PTLs documents  were clear. It didnt seek to restrict or 
exclude its regulatory obligations.  
Mr Ds investment adviser was bound  by COBS 14.2.3R. A firm that personally 
recommends a retail  client  hold a particular asset in a SIPP must  provide that client 
with sufficient information to make  an informed decision whether to buy or invest. 
PTL didnt purport  to advise Mr D that he hold a particular (emphasis added)  asset.  It 
knew advice on the particular underlying asset was being provided by another  firm. 
COBS 2.4.10R says a firm doesnt have to send information to a client if it takes 
reasonable steps to establish  it has been or will be supplied  by another person. 
Under COBS 2.4.6R a firm may reasonably rely on information provided to it in 
writing by another person.  The limited  service PTL provided was permissible and 
reasonable in the light of the COBS requirements  at the time.  
The regulator undertook two thematic  reviews: the quality  of advice on pension  
switching (December 2008); and the activities of SIPP operators (September 2009). 
Kingsway implemented (as a matter of good risk management and not because  the 
report applied) the measures set out.
In summary, the investment adviser was responsible for the suitability of the 
underlying investment;  PTL disclosed to Mr D the scope of the service it provided; it 
Ref: DRN69473795only dealt with regulated firms or their ARs; it was entitled to rely on the 
recommendations given to Mr D by his investment adviser (who  was paid for that 
service). PTL didnt  have to have regard  to the underlying  investment when advising 
on the suitability  of the SIPP. 
2.Had [PTL]  had regard  to the underlying  investment  (even generally as commercial 
property) it should have advised that the transfer  was unsuitable. 
The investment  adviser  was responsible  for the advice he gave. PTL didnt have the 
authority to carry on the regulated activity  of advising on investments. So it restricted 
its advice (as the regulator was aware and in line with industry practice) to the 
suitability of the SIPP and used hypothetical data for comparison purposes,  which  
was a standard and compliant process. A firm advising  only on the investment  
vehicle (a SIPP) wasnt required to collect details of the destination investment or 
advise on it. That made  sense  for the client. Otherwise there  might  have been two 
personal recommendations from two regulated firms with no means  of choosing 
between them if they differed. It was pointless  to identify  the destination investment 
at a stage in the process when the client wouldnt have  known  if it was possible for 
the transfer to even  proceed.
Advising on a generic investment such as commercial property would have been 
insufficiently certain to constitute  regulated advice and raised issues as to whether 
such advice was within  our jurisdiction. 
If PTL had made a personal recommendation about the specified investments and 
that recommendation was unsuitable (notwithstanding PTL being  in breach of its AR 
agreement) Kingsway  would have been  liable to Mr D. But that isnt what  happened. 
3.If [PTL] had advised the transfer was unsuitable, Mr D wouldnt have gone ahead.
Mr D had a medium risk profile. But hed proceeded with the Cyprus  (Two) 
investment despite  having signed a specific  acknowledgement  that unlisted shares 
were high risk; he could lose all of his investment; and that he entered into the 
investment entirely  at his own risk. Mr D had been  contributorily negligent  and that 
should be taken  into account. 
Kingsway made some  further comments.  In particular it said the SIPP had been set up and 
the funds held in cash for four months. Firm A was to review  the SIPP and the investments 
within three months of being appointed. Kingsway  referred to another  complaint. It also 
wanted Mr D to make a subject access request (SAR)  to the SIPP  provider. 
We explained that wed already got the SIPP providers file. We shared  it with Kingsway. It 
included two letters that Kingsway had queried.  We also said we might need to consider an 
award for future SIPP fees. 
In response Kingsway referred again  to the involvement of other regulated firms.  The SIPP  
application showed Mr Ds adviser  was Firm B, an AR of a regulated  firm. And the Cyprus  
(Two) application form named an adviser with Firm A.  Mr D confirmed  to the SIPP  provider 
that hed taken legal and financial  advice  about  the investment. The SIPP  provider wouldnt 
accept the investment unless it came from an authorised individual. Firm A, a regulated 
business, had recommended the investment and arranged it. 
Ref: DRN69473796About the SIPP fees, Mr D has told us that the SIPP provider agreed in July 2017 to refund 
the annual fee and to treat the value of the Cyprus (Two)  investment as zero. The SIPP 
provider wont be charging annual fees or issuing annual statements.   
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im required to determine a complaint by 
reference to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
In considering that in a particular case, I have to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.  
Ive paid particular  attention to what Kingsway  has said in response to my provisional 
decision. Kingsway  has referred to other complaints weve looked  at and how these have 
been decided.  We aim for consistency.  But we decide complaints  on the basis  of their 
individual facts  and circumstances.  Complaints which may seem similar may be decided 
differently. There may be a range of different approaches that might reasonably be taken in 
a particular scenario.  
Kingsways objections centre on the fact that other parties were involved and that those 
parties, or two of them  at least (Firm  A and Firm B, an AR of another  firm),  were also 
regulated firms (as was the SIPP operator).  Ive considered carefully the involvement of 
other parties. 
Mr D was introduced to PTL by Mr B. But it seems he wasnt then acting for Firm B but on 
behalf of another, unregulated, business.  It isnt clear why Mr B didnt  deal with the transfer 
to the SIPP  in his regulated capacity. It may be, as Kingsway suggests, there were  
limitations on what Mr B/Firm B was permitted to do under  the terms of the AR agreement  
(which I havent seen). But for whatever reason Mr B/Firm  B didnt  deal with the matter  and 
instead referred him to PTL who recommended that Mr D transfer. 
After that Firm B was involved in setting up the SIPP  Firm B completed the SIPP 
application form although that was then returned to and submitted by PTL. And Firm B was 
going to be the adviser  for the SIPP going  forwards. 
Firm A was then involved  in arranging  the Cyprus (Two) investment. Firm As permissions 
included advising on investments. Firm A may have  advised Mr D about the investment. Its 
also possible  that he got advice from one of the other parties involved, including  Firm B or 
from an unregulated  entity.  
But Mr Ds complaint is made against Kingsway.  And although its unclear what advice, if 
any, Mr D got from other parties, theres no dispute that he did get advice from PTL  that he 
should transfer. So, although  Ive considered  the parts played by others, Ive focused  on 
what PTL did  in particular on whether PTL gave Mr D suitable advice and, if not, what 
would have happened if PTL had given  suitable  advice.  
Ref: DRN69473797Ive considered what Kingsway has said about PTL breaching its AR agreement had it 
purported to advise  other  than just on the SIPP itself. The agreement  specifies the activities 
which Kingsway authorised PTL to carry out.
Activity Investment
 Dealing in investment as agent  (article 21 of the
Regulated Activities  Order ("RAO")
 Arranging deals in investments (article 25 of the  RAO)
 Advising on investments (article  53 of the RAO) Personal  Pension
 To Transfer a Value to another Pension  Scheme  To Hold in Cash
Kingsway has tried to draw a distinction  between  advice  to transfer from one pension 
arrangement into another and advice that may be given in relation to personal  pensions 
generally. But the activities listed in relation to personal pensions refer to the relevant  article 
under the RAO  for instance, article  53 refers to advising  on investments. Theres no 
discrete or separate  article in the RAO that only relates to transferring a value to another 
pension scheme. Further  to this, a SIPP is a type of personal pension  and the AR 
agreement did allow PTL to advise on investments in a personal  pension. 
Its also clear  that the investments were  linked to the advice to transfer  the purpose of the 
transfer was so that the investment in Cyprus  (Two) could be made. If Kingsway is 
responsible for the advice to transfer  to the SIPP, it is responsible for the linked investment 
too. It was part and parcel of the advice  to transfer.  Thats consistent with the position  taken  
by the courts  in Martin v Britannia  Life and, more recently, TenetConnect v Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
I appreciate that the intention behind the AR agreement was to limit the scope of PTLs 
activities. This was the business model Kingsway was trying  to pursue. But Kingsway had 
already been warned by the regulator about its plan to do this. I dont think it was open to 
Kingsway to seek to limit its advice as it sought  to do. 
PTL did say in its recommendation letter that it wasnt offering advice about  the investment 
of the funds transferred to the SIPP  which would be held in cash   and Mr D would need to 
speak to his own adviser  about investing  in line with his risk profile. But, as PTL accepts, it 
cant exclude or limit its regulatory obligations. 
I agree  there was no express COBS  provision saying advice on the intended  underlying 
investments must be given. But the FCAs December 2008 letter and its January 2013 alert 
set out the regulators view  that the suitability of the intended underlying  investments forms 
part of the advice about whether to transfer to a SIPP. The alert post dated PTLs advice. 
But it didnt follow any change to the regulations. It just restated the principles which  applied  
at the time the advice was given.  And the alert was issued because  it had been  brought  to 
the regulators attention that some financial advisers were  giving  advice on pension transfers 
Ref: DRN69473798or switches without assessing the advantages  and disadvantages of investments proposed 
to be held within the new pension. About that the alert said: 
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
I think thats very clear. So I maintain, despite  any intention  for another regulated adviser  to 
give investment advice, that it wasnt possible  for PTL to advise on the suitability of the SIPP  
without taking into account how the fund was going  to be invested. It follows I dont agree 
with what PTL says about  its COBS  obligations and those of other advisers making  it 
possible for PTLs advice to be restricted to the suitability of the SIPP itself. 
Im not sure how much PTL knew about the intended investment. Cyprus  (Two) isnt named. 
But PTL knew Mr D wanted  to invest in property. And, as I said in my provisional decision,  
the recommendation letter mentions possible investment  in a Genuinely  Diverse Commercial 
Vehicle  an unusual non mainstream investment. The letter  also pointed out that Mr D 
needed to check  that the SIPP provider would allow the specific  investments he wished to 
make. I think that indicates that PTL knew the intended investment wasnt what might  be 
termed a mainstream regulated property based  fund (although I dont think  even that sort of 
investment would have  been suitable  for Mr Ds entire SIPP  fund). 
Kingsway has stressed that the funds  were to be held in cash  pending  investment  advice 
from another (regulated) firm. The Cyprus  (Two) investment wasnt  made  until some four 
months after PTLs recommendation (on 27 May 2010). Some of the time was taken in 
establishing the SIPP and getting the transfer  values paid in. That took until towards  the end 
of July 2010. By the beginning of September 2010 the investment in Cyprus (Two) was 
being arranged.  It was completed  on 10 September  2010. I dont regard that sort of 
timescale as unusually lengthy or such that might mean that the investment should be 
viewed as separate and distinct from the transfer.    
The situation  might  be different  if PTL understood that Mr D was going to invest differently, 
for example in more conventional and lower risk funds and Mr D then did something else.  
But that isnt what  happened here. 
Ive thought about what PTL says about Mr D having  some responsibility for going  ahead 
despite the warnings  hed been given in particular the SIPP providers unquoted share 
purchase declaration.  But Mr D was acting on a positive recommendation from PTL that - 
despite the risks  he should transfer.  I dont see why hed have looked  much beyond that. 
I maintain that if PTL had advised  Mr D against transferring and risking  the bulk of his SIPP  
fund in a high risk, unregulated investment, Mr D would have thought again and decided 
against transferring.  
As Ive acknowledged, several parties  were  involved in Mr D transferring his personal 
pensions to a SIPP and investing in Cyprus (Two). But I maintain that PTLs role was pivotal. 
Theres no dispute it recommended the transfer  to the SIPP. That meant  Mr D was able to 
invest in Cyprus (Two).  The losses hes sustained as a result of that investment flow directly 
from the advice  to transfer to the SIPP, which advice was unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN69473799Kingsway should  compensate Mr D on the basis I set out in my provisional decision. If 
Kingsway considers that other parties  are also to blame then, if it pays Mr Ds losses  in full, it 
can take an assignment of rights  from him. It would  presumably  then be open to Kingsway to 
pursue those other parties, if so advised. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr D in the position hed probably be in now if hed been given suitable 
advice. I take the view that hed have invested  differently.  I cant say precisely what  hed 
have done instead. But Im satisfied  that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr Ds circumstances and objectives  when he invested. 
what should  Kingsway do?
To compensate Mr D fairly Kingsway must:
compare the performance of Mr Ds investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment;
pay any interest as set out below;
pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and upset  hes suffered in consequence of Kingsways 
unsuitable advice.
Mr D still has the SIPP but he isnt incurring on going SIPP  fees. So I dont  need  to 
make any award  for those. 
Redress should be paid into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should  allow  for the effect of
charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the pension
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a deduction of 15%. The
payment would otherwise have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would
be tax free and the rest would have been  taxed  according to Mr Ds likely  tax paying status
in retirement  presumed to be 20%.  And so the 15% deduction adequately reflects  this.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
The actual value  of the Cyprus (Two)  investment should be assumed  to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. I assume, as the SIPP provider  accepts that the value  of the investment is 
zero that, if Mr D wishes/is so advised, he can transfer to another pension  arrangement.  So 
theres no need for Kingsway to take ownership of the Cyprus  (Two).  But Kingsway may still 
Ref: DRN694737910wish to require that Mr D gives  an undertaking to pay to Kingsway any amount he may 
receive from the investment in the future.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations
simpler, I will accept  if Kingsway totals  all those  payments and deducts that figure  at the end
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ds circumstances and risk attitude.
 Mr D hasnt yet used  his pension plan to purchase an annuity.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Kingsway Wealth Management  Limited should compensate Mr D 
as Ive set out above. 
Kingsway Wealth Management  Limited should  provide  details of its calculations to Mr D in a 
clear and simple format. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Lesley Stead 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6947379