K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs decision to reject  a claim 
she made under her home  insurance  policy.
background
In September  2018 Mrs P made a claim to her insurer, RSA. She said the ceiling inside a 
front bay window had collapsed  as a result of a storm. 
RSA instructed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor said there was no evidence 
of storm related damage. So RSA rejected Mrs Ps claim. 
Mrs P asked us to look at her complaint. The investigator  said the storm conditions at the 
time of the event  met RSAs definition to consider the claim.  But he didnt  find that the 
damage was consistent with damage  a storm typically causes. He was satisfied that RSAs 
decision was reasonable as the damage  appeared to have occurred gradually over time.  
Mrs P didnt agree. She said she made claims in similar circumstances with different insurers 
before and the claims were met. She believes a storm  was the main  cause of the damage. 
Mrs P asked to discuss her case with an ombudsman. I discussed Mrs Ps case with her and 
Mr P. She remained unhappy  with my view that RSA had acted reasonably.  She asked for a 
copy of the surveyors  audio recordings and report. We sent a copy of both to Mrs P and 
gave time for her to provide any further  comments. 
Mrs P hasnt provided any comments about the call recordings or report. But she has 
referred to case studies on our website.  She says these are similar to her circumstances and 
are complaints we have  upheld. She doesnt agree that RSA has done enough to support its 
decision, particularly  when it doesnt  clearly  show what  is excluded under its definition  of 
storm damage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Our investigator explained that when we look at complaints related to storm damage,  we 
consider the following:
Did storm  conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have
happened?
Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage?
Were likely to uphold  a complaint if the answer to all three  questions  is yes. However if the
answer to one of the questions is no were unlikely to uphold a complaint. I cant  comment  
on how an insurer has settled previous claims. Each  claim is considered on its own merits 
and in line with the policy.
Ref: DRN64338852RSA instructed a surveyor to inspect Mrs Ps property. The surveyor  took photos of the front 
bay area. He reported that the damage  was caused by ingress  of water.  RSA provided audio 
recordings which the surveyor made while inspecting the area of damage. In summary he 
said the flat roof didnt show any signs of wear and tear and there  was no evidence  of storm 
damage. He reported that the bay itself was showing signs of age, starting  to go a bit rotten 
and the timber was starting to decay. He said the damage was consistent with possible 
running water through the front elevation  and through the flat roof flashing area - finding  a 
way to the front bay area. The surveyor explained that Mrs P didnt agree to him inspecting  
the inside  of the home. So his inspection was limited to the outside. He said Mrs P said there 
was no internal damage. 
He concluded  that there  was no evidence of storm damage and he explained his decision to 
Mrs P. Mrs P said she didnt agree and intended  to dispute his findings  with RSA. 
RSA doesnt specify an exclusion  for wear  and tear under the storm damage  definition. But 
under its General Conditions and Exclusions of the policy, RSA says:
The following apply  to the policy as a whole, regardless of the specific  cover  you 
have selected.  For full details of these  and other exclusions and limits, please read 
the policy document.
No cover is provided for wear and tear, maintenance or anything that happens 
gradually.
I think based on the surveyors findings, the damage was most likely caused  by wear and 
tear. 
As Mrs P didnt accept  the surveyors findings,  RSA said it would reconsider her claim if she 
provided a report which  supported  her claim from a suitably qualified surveyor. I think this 
was a reasonable approach to take.  This would allow Mrs P the opportunity  to provide 
evidence of equal weight which we would expect  RSA to consider. I havent  seen any 
evidence from Mrs P to contradict the surveyors findings. So I think it was fair and 
reasonable for RSA to rely on the surveyors report when reaching  its decision.  
So in consideration of the three questions we ask; I think there were storm conditions  at the 
time of the event.  But that isnt enough  to say that Mrs Ps claim for storm damage in this 
case should be met. There isnt enough evidence to show  that the damage Mrs P claimed 
for was caused by a storm. Therefore there  isnt enough to safely  conclude  that storm 
conditions were the main  cause for the damage. 
I understand Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision. But this means  I think  RSAs 
decision to reject her claim - based on the information it had - was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN64338853my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 October  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6433885