K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Miss L says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss L opened a store  card account  in a shop in 1997. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Miss Ls store card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included life cover  and purchase cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators  view,  so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Miss Ls case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss L says it wasnt made  clear  to her that the PPI was optional. And she says it was 
added without her knowledge.  Ive seen  a copy of Miss Ls application for the store  card. 
It includes a section  headed Account Cover. Account  cover  was a form of PPI. Under 
the heading, theres a summary of what the cover was for. This is followed  by Yes,  
I would  like to protect  my Account with Account Cover (subject  to eligibility). Please debit 
my Account with the relevant monthly premium  until further  notice. It then says 
Tick Here. Theres a tick on Miss Ls form. Next to that theres a space to sign, which  
has been left blank.
Although Miss L didnt  sign specifically to take the PPI, she did sign the application  form. 
I think the way the cover  was presented on the application form made  it clear  that it was 
optional. And Im satisfied, on balance,  that the Account Cover  option was ticked  
because Miss L wished to take the cover   although I can understand why she may no 
longer remember this, so many years later.
FICL  didnt advise Miss L to take out the policy. So it didnt  have to check if the policy  
was suitable for her. But it still needed to make  sure it gave Miss L enough information to 
enable her to decide  for herself  if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means shed 
have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
Ref: DRN64461682Miss Ls told us shes unsure how much sick pay shed have been entitled to from her 
employer at the time. And she says she had no other means she could  have used to 
make her store  card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job.
If Miss L had made a successful claim on the PPI, it would  have paid a monthly  benefit  
15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would  have  done  this each month until 
her credit  agreement ended, or she returned  to work, or the outstanding balance  had 
been repaid- whichever was the earliest. So it would potentially  have covered her for 
longer than shed  have  been entitled  to full sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid 
out in addition to any payments Miss L received  from her employer.
I accept that its possible the information  FICL  gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been. Miss Ls representatives have commented specifically that no 
explanation was given that the policy would add extra costs to Miss Ls monthly  
payment. But Im satisfied  that it would have been clear from the application form that 
there would  be monthly premiums  to pay for the cover. And Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that the policy was unaffordable for Miss L.
Ive concluded  that Miss L chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  as if she wanted  this 
type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. She was eligible for the 
policy, and doesnt appear to have  been  affected  by any of the main things it didnt cover 
(for example provisions about unusual working  arrangements or existing medical 
conditions). Miss Ls representatives have pointed  out that she was working part-time. 
But the policy would have covered her as long as she was working  at least 16 hours  per 
week- and based on what Miss Ls told us, she met that condition.
Taking everything into account,  Im not convinced  that better information about  the PPI 
would have put Miss L off taking it out. So I dont think shes  lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6446168