K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains Tesco Personal  Finance Plc wont refund him for a photography and
modelling package  he paid for using his credit card.
background
Mr Hs daughter saw an advert  for a modelling  shoot and sent a photograph  of Mr Hs son to
a studio. Mr H was then contacted and was invited with his son to attend a photoshoot
session for Mr Hs son. They were then introduced  to a representative  of a modelling
company, (that Ill call L) in August 2017.
Mr H says they returned to L later the same  day for a meeting, where they were met by a
senior model  consultant. According  to Mr H, the consultant said they were an employment
agency and promised them the following:
she would personally represent his son
she would get him three to five jobs a month  at a rate of £3,000 to £5,000 for each
shoot
she would organise most of the work for his son in their home town  but would
reimburse all expenses  incurred if they needed  to come to London
if they couldnt do a job, she would sort it all out
Mr Hs son could keep the clothing worn by him during the modelling shoots
Mr H was offered a choice  of three  packages and says the Platinum package was offered
because L had such faith and belief  in his son. So Mr H paid for the cost of this package  on
his credit card on 14 August 2017,  which came  to £4,550. Mr H says he expressed some
concern about  this cost as it was high and he couldnt afford this but was assured this would
effectively be repaid within a matter  of weeks due to the work his son would get.
Mr H says he then didnt  hear anything further from the senior consultant  despite him calling
and sending her e-mails.  He was then contacted by someone at L who told him another
consultant would be their contact.  Although  Mr H felt this wasnt what had been agreed, he
says he was assured  that everything  that had been promised by the senior consultant would
be carried out. Mr H felt that this didnt happen  however. So he contacted  Tesco about this.
Tesco looked into Mr Hs claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
However, they turned the claim down. And Tesco maintained they were correct to do this
when Mr H then complained to them.
Our investigator took a look at things but didnt uphold the case. In summary, she felt that
the services offered by L under the Platinum package were received and continued to be
available for the contracted 12 month period. She also felt there  wasnt any evidence  that L
had misrepresented the contract to Mr H or that theyd promised a modelling contract.
Mr H didnt agree and said a number of things promised and agreed  under the contract
hadnt been honoured which meant the contract hadnt been  fulfilled. And he maintained
hed been given false promises about  what services  would be offered by L.
Ref: DRN61417562I issued a provisional decision on this case on 17 April 2019. My provisional findings  said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where necessary and/or 
appropriate, I reach my decision  on a balance of probabilities  that is, what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence  
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
When considering  if Tesco acted fairly  and reasonably in declining  Mr Hs request for 
a refund I take into account relevant law. In this case, Section 75 of the Consumer  
Credit Act 1974 makes Tesco responsible  for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In this case,  L was the supplier of the goods and 
services. 
Firstly, Im satisfied that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier link was in place for 
Mr H to make a Section  75 claim. The contract  paperwork  was signed by Mr H and 
his son was a minor  at the time. It was Mr H who was contacted and invited with his 
son to discuss what services  they would offer. Mr H has also said that he was the 
one asking L questions about what was promised under the contract and that he led 
the negotiations. I think  that likely  to have been the case bearing in mind that Mr Hs 
son was a minor.  So all in all Im satisfied that Mr H was the party contracting with L. 
And the credit card payment was made to the same  company that was shown on the 
contract paperwork.
Turning to the case itself,  Mr Hs more recent submissions to us indicate that he feels 
L didnt fulfil the contract  he signed. However,  having looked at all of the submissions 
from Mr H, it appears  to me that his grievance  with L stems  more from what  he 
believes he was promised  when  he originally met with them  for the photoshoot. Ive 
listed these particular points in the first page  of my decision. So I think  Mr H is 
actually saying that he feels the package  was misrepresented to him. 
So what  I need to consider is whether or not L, as the supplier, misrepresented  the 
package to Mr H by making false statements of fact. And, if I find that they did, I then 
need to consider whether  this induced Mr H to enter  into the contract  with them,  to 
the extent that he wouldnt have done so had the representations not been made. 
Mr H has given a very detailed account  of what happened when he met with L with 
his son after the photoshoot. I find what Mr H has said to be compelling, plausible 
and persuasive. And I find his actions after he entered into the contract to be highly 
consistent of someone who has since found  out that what he was told wasnt true. 
Mr H describes being shocked  at the amount of the package but says he was 
reassured by L telling him that he would make this back very shortly.  The amount of 
the package wasnt  cheap; it came  to £4,500. I think that it is a significant amount to 
pay for just for a modelling shoot.  So this lends some credence to Mr Hs version of 
what he says he was promised.
Ref: DRN61417563Mr H says he was concerned about  entering into such a cost and I think  it more likely  
than not that he was given a reassurance by L that he would make this money back. 
Mr H has given a very detailed account  of what the senior consultant  told him and 
this has remained consistent throughout. I can see how this sort of representation 
wouldve enticed Mr H into agreeing to pay a lot of money despite reservations about  
how they could  afford  this. And Im not currently persuaded that Mr H has now said 
this because he has since changed his mind about the contract. 
I also think that Mr H was told by L that they were an employment  agency, when it 
fact they werent.  That goes a long way to explaining why Mr H agreed to pay such a 
large amount of money,  and why he thought that this would be ultimately  reasonable 
to pay despite  the cost.  I think  Mr H was reassured that L would be prioritising  his 
son as their client and looking to book modelling sessions directly with other  
businesses in that industry. I note also L e-mailed Mr H to say that he would be 
updated when  castings are available which I think supports  his assertion that 
guarantees of work were  being given. 
I note also that Mr H says he was required to pay the sum immediately, asked 
whether he could think about  it, and was told he needed to make a decision there 
and then. I think it more  likely  than not this happened and that the particular promises  
that were made to Mr H ultimately induced him into agreeing to enter  into the contract 
and that he felt somewhat pressured to make a decision.
I accept the contract  outlined a number of services  that formed  part of the Platinum  
package, such  as website edits and an agency  application process. I also accept  that 
some of these services were  provided.  However, what I am looking at here is the 
circumstances under which Mr H agreed  to enter  into the contract. Mr H was 
promised a lot more such as, most notably,  guaranteed work and Im not satisfied 
that the promises were  fulfilled. Indeed,  instead of the promised aftercare - it seems 
Mr H struggled  to get any further meaningful  contact  with L at all. And although it 
looks like L did put Mr H in touch  with a modelling agency, it doesnt  look like any 
work or follow up came from this. That was far from the guaranteed work Mr H says 
he was promised and which  on balance I think he was promised.  
In addition, we contacted  L to find out more about  what happened and the services it 
promised and actually  provided. It promised to get a manger to contact  us, but no-
one did. So I have  nothing  from it to refute  what Mr H has said. 
Having taking all of the evidence into account, I think  it likely that L misled Mr H in 
exchange for the payment  of £4,550  and had it not been for the false  promises  L had 
made, Mr H wouldnt have  entered  into the contract.
So this leaves me to determine what would be an appropriate remedy  for Mr H. Mr H 
is prepared to accept  that he should pay for the services he actually got from L, and 
puts that figure at about £1,000. That seems to be a reasonable  amount bearing in 
mind L did perform some  services  under  the contract, for example they created a 
website for Mr Hs son, did the photoshoot  and provided images from that shoot. 
So I currently intend to instruct Tesco  to rework  Mr Hs credit card so that a payment 
of £1,000 was made to L on 14 August 2017 rather than the £4,550 that was actually 
paid. 
Ref: DRN61417564I asked the parties  for their comments on my provisional decision.
Mr H replied saying he was completely satisfied with my findings  and the outcome of our 
investigation. Tesco didnt  reply. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr H nor Tesco have added anything which persuades me to depart from my original 
findings (as shown  above). Therefore, I uphold this complaint  for the same  reasons I gave in 
my provisional decision. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint  and direct Tesco Personal Finance Plc to rework Mr Hs credit 
card as if a payment  of £1,000 had made to L rather than £4,550  - where this recalculation 
results in a credit balance,  the bank should  pay Mr H interest on that amount at a rate of 8% 
simple per year, from the date that credit balance arose to the date of settlement.
If Tesco Personal Finance Plc considers it is legally required to deduct  tax from the interest 
award it should provide Mr H with a certificate of tax deduction so he can reclaim this from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6141756