K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr G took out in 1997  when he applied for a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr G disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
Mr G mainly says that the PPI wasnt something he ever wanted or needed and it wasnt  
suitable for him. Mr G also told us he had other means he couldve relied on to make his 
credit card monthly  repayments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I dont know what mightve  been discussed about  the PPI. But the application form Mr G 
completed made it clear  that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI. Under the heading 
OPTIONAL FEATURES hes ticked to say he required PPI. Mr G couldve left the box blank 
if he hadnt wanted PPI. 
I can understand why Mr G has forgotten now as this was a long time ago. But I think its 
likely that Mr G wouldve been able to see at the time that the application form showed that 
having the PPI was a matter of choice  - and he chose to take it, signing the completed 
application at the end to confirm the information  on the form.  
Although Mr G thought  hed taken out the PPI during a meeting, Lloyds couldnt confirm  this 
from its records. But Lloyds said that it would look at this complaint as if it had advised Mr G 
personally to take out the PPI. This means it not only had to give him important policy 
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr G. 
PPI wouldve  covered him for accident or sickness for up to 12 months per claim.  Ive taken 
into account that Mr G told us he wouldve been able to rely on getting 12 months  full sick 
pay from his employer. But it would  be very unusual for someone to be guaranteed to 
receive full sick pay for a whole year. He hasnt sent us any further information to show  that 
hes right about this. So I think its likely that PPI wouldve provided Mr G with better cover 
than he couldve depended on getting  from his employer. And the policy wouldve paid out 
on top of any sick pay. This couldve been  a useful benefit at whats  likely to have been a 
difficult time if Mr G needed to claim as he mightve had extra  costs  if he was ill or disabled. 
And as well as this, the policy  wouldve  also paid out in the event  Mr G lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. So, overall, I think the policy was suitable for Mr G. 
Ref: DRN63231432Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr G made a claim.  But Mr G chose to take out the policy when  he didnt 
have to  so he seems  to have wanted  this type of cover.  I cant see that he wouldve been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions or limitations. Mr G couldve cancelled  the policy  at 
any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay for the benefits it 
offered him.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely Mr G wouldve made a different decision if better  
information had been provided.  On balance, given his circumstances and the benefits the 
policy offered him, I think he still wouldve taken  out the policy.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6323143