K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Allianz Insurance Plc has withheld VAT they paid to their 
contractor from their home insurance claim settlement and about the poor service they 
received during the handling  of their claim. 
 
background
Mr and Mrs Ls domestic sewerage plant was damaged as a result of a prolonged power cut. 
Due to the risk of contamination they arranged an immediate repair that was carried out the 
following day. They then made a claim to Allianz  under  their home  insurance  policy  for the 
cost of repairs  both parts and labour. 
Allianz accepted  the claim but asked  for an invoice as proof  of what  had been paid, 
specifically for receipts for the materials the contractor has purchased, a contact number for 
the contractor and an invoice number. Mr and Mrs L obtained an invoice from the contractor 
(totalling £525.29) which included an invoice number. They  also forwarded their contractors 
comments to Allianz. He said:
"I've been searching through piles of paperwork and folders since our earlier  conversation 
and while  in the throes of discarding reams  of rubbish, I remembered the Drive Motor  unit 
came as a job lot, cash sale a few years ago and without any paperwork or guarantee, so I 
cannot supply  what your insurers want in that respect."
Allianz said the claim settlement amount would be £525.29 minus  £56.55  (the VAT element 
on the invoice  in respect of the parts)  and the £100.00 policy excess.  The total claim 
settlement amount came to £368.74.  
Mr and Mrs L complained  to Allianz about  its refusal to pay the VAT element on the invoice. 
They also complained that one of Allianzs  employees had abruptly terminated a phone  call 
with them.
Allianz looked into their complaint and upheld  it in part. It said the manner in which  the call 
had been terminated was unacceptable.  It said this wasnt the behaviour it expected of its 
staff and feedback  had been given to the staff member concerned.  But it said it wouldnt be 
paying the VAT element  on the invoice without documentary evidence that it was paid by 
their contactor when  he purchased the part. It said as such evidence hadnt  been provided 
its position remained the same and it wouldnt pay the VAT as claimed. It apologised for 
failing to meet their expectations and that they hadnt always  been provided  with the high 
level of service they could  expect.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Allianzs  investigation  Mr and Mrs L complained to this service  
about its refusal to fully reimburse them for the total value  of the invoice. They also 
complained about the fact that Allianz  had upheld  their complaint about the phone  call but 
hadnt paid them any compensation for the distress the abrupt termination  of the phone call 
had caused them. Our adjudicator investigated  their complaint but didnt recommend that it 
was upheld. He thought  Allianz had treated them fairly. 
Mr and Mrs L disagreed and asked for their complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN60348942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the phone  call
Allianz has accepted  that the phone  call in question  was terminated in an unacceptable  way. 
I agree  that the phone call was generally  conducted  appropriately and that the agent couldnt 
be expected to remain on the call indefinitely. A full explanation of the overall  position  and of 
what it could mean  for them was provided.  I can also see that the agent  followed up what 
was promised during the call. 
So whilst I can appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ls distress  at the termination, I have to weigh that 
against the overall content of the call and the fact that Allianz has accepted the termination 
itself was unacceptable and has apologised. 
When considering  what,  if any, compensation should be paid by a business for any distress 
and inconvenience  caused to a consumer we look at everything  that has happened and 
assess what we think would be fair compensation overall. Sometimes an apology  is enough 
and other  times, taking  the circumstances of the complaint  into account, we think  the 
business needs to pay a consumer some compensation. On balance  I think  that by admitting 
that the termination of the call was unacceptable  and apologising, Allianz has done enough. 
I don't think the distress  caused to Mr and Mrs L was significant enough for me to fairly ask 
the Allianz to pay them  any compensation. 
the VAT element of the claim
Its unclear from the invoice supplied and the contractors comments provided whether the 
sale of the replacement part to him included any VAT element. Ive not seen any clear 
evidence that Mr and Mrs Ls contractor was entitled to incorporate on the invoice the VAT 
element for the replacement part as he did. Consequently, I dont think that Allianz  
unreasonably questioned  why it appeared on the invoice and whether or not Mr and Mrs L 
(and then by extension, Allianz) were liable to pay it. Without clear evidence  that the VAT 
was an actual cost incurred by Mr and Mrs Ls contractor when he paid his supplier,  I cant  
reasonably require Allianz to pay it. 
Whether the contractor is registered for VAT or not isnt relevant. In order  for me to require 
Allianz to pay the VAT element invoiced in relation to the replacement  part I would need to 
see evidence that Mr and Mrs Ls contractor had been charged it at the time of purchase and 
thereby correctly passed the cost on to them. As I havent seen such  evidence it wouldnt  be 
reasonable for me to require it to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60348943
Ref: DRN6034894