K820x#14complaint
Mrs W took out a packaged bank account with National  Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) in 
2000 and she says it was mis-sold.
background
Mrs W took out a fee free account with NatWest in 1991.
She then upgraded to an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in August 2000  for which  she paid 
a £6 monthly fee.
Mrs W downgraded to a fee free account  in June 2007.
Mrs W says that the AGA was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that NatWest mis-sold the AGA.  Mrs W disagrees so the case 
has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W and NatWest agree the AGA  was sold in a meeting  in a branch. Mrs W says that she 
was told the AGA would be better for her but she wasnt  told about the fees.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Mrs W knew she had a choice whether to take out the 
AGA, and whether  she chose to do so. I think she did and Ill explain why.
Mrs W had used a fee free bank account with an overdraft  with NatWest for many  years 
before she took out her AGA.  So at the time of the sale, I think  its more likely than not that 
she was aware that there was a range of fee free bank accounts  available from both 
NatWest and other banks  and financial  institutions. 
I believe the AGA  benefits  in June  2000 included travel insurance, commission  free foreign 
currency, extended warranty cover, purchase  protection; better interest  rates for overdrafts, 
loans, and mortgages; discounts  on electrical  goods and a range of other offers. These  
benefits were substantial and I think its more likely than not that Mrs W would  not have 
expected to receive these for nothing.
So in my view Mrs W knew  she had to pay a monthly fee for the AGA, knew  she had a 
choice whether to pay the fee or not and she chose to take the AGA  out. 
NatWest says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AGA to Mrs W personally or advise her to take it out. Mrs W says that NatWest did advise her 
to take it out. 
Ref: DRN66382832I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mrs Ws needs and circumstances  or suitability checks to show  me clearly  
that NatWest did make  a personal recommendation to her. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mrs W and explaining the benefits of the AGA, NatWest  may have 
said or implied that it was good idea to take out the AGA. But this isnt the same as giving a 
personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of NatWests sales  
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that NatWest  sold the AGA to Mrs W on 
an information only basis. 
This means  NatWest did not have to ensure that the AGA  was suitable for Mrs W, but it did 
have to provide  Mrs W with good enough information about  the AGA  so she could make  an 
informed decision about whether to have it or not.
And I think it did. I say this for the following reasons.
The initial cost of the AGA was £6 per month, and Ive listed above the range benefits.
I think its likely NatWest wouldve described  the AGA to Mrs W at some  length as it was trying 
to sell the account to her. I think the AGA would have been of interest to Mrs W. Mrs W was 
running an overdraft  at the time of the sale and continued to do so afterwards, hence  
benefiting from the better rates. NatWest has also provided evidence  that she later took out 
loans and probably benefited from the better interest rate on those too.
And I can see nothing in Mrs Ws personal circumstances that would have stopped her using 
the AGAs benefits;  it was for her to decide what she wanted to use.
So, in my view Mrs W knew she had a choice about  the AGA  and she chose to take it out. And 
I dont think there is anything NatWest didnt tell her that would have changed her mind and 
put her off taking out the AGA.
my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6638283