K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a default put on his credit  card account  by Sainsburys Bank Plc.
background
Mr M said Sainsburys put a default  against  his credit card account in 2017.  Hed suffered a 
severe illness in 2016.  And hed had to close his business. Mr M said he continued to repay 
Sainsburys for a while.  But his health  didnt  recover. So he wrote to the bank in February 
2017 to advise them of the situation.
Mr M said the bank didnt reply to his letter. It eventually contacted him in May 2017 but 
didnt appear to have received his correspondence. He had further communication problems  
with Sainsburys in the following months.  
Mr M said he explained his situation to Sainsburys.  But they couldnt agree a repayment 
plan. And it wouldnt  send him confirmation of how the balance had arisen. It only told him 
what he owed by telephone. Mr M would like to reach an arrangement  with the bank. But he 
wants confirmation of the outstanding balance. And he wants  the default removing from his 
credit card account.
Sainsburys said it tried to contact Mr M when he stopped making  payments to the account.  
It discovered hed moved abroad and wrote to him there.  Mr M complained hed not had any 
responses to his previous letters. But Sainsburys said it hadnt received them. To help Mr M 
the bank refunded charges and interest on his credit  card for a number of months. But he 
hadnt wanted to complete an income and expenditure form. And it wasnt able to reach  an 
arrangement with him.
Sainsburys said it wrote  to Mr M at his new address in July 2017 to give notice of default. 
The default  was applied to the account on 14 August 2017. The bank said the default had 
been applied  correctly and in line with its policy.  But there were occasions  when  its service  
hadnt been of the highest  standard. Mr M had been given misleading information and not all 
of his points had been addressed. So it paid Mr M £500  compensation  for its poor service.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Sainsburys  response.  So he contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see Sainsburys had been in touch with Mr M 
overseas in May 2017. It was agreed  he would pay £20 each month once hed cleared the 
arrears. But the account went  over its limit. And a notice of default was sent to Mr M in July 
2017. She felt Mr M was aware the default might  be placed on his account. And she didnt 
think Sainsburys had made any errors.  Mr M didnt  agree. So hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear of the health problems Mr M has experienced.  And the impact this has 
had on his life and business.  Mr M has raised a number of issues with this service. But this 
complaint is about  the default  applied to his credit card account and whether Sainsburys 
followed its procedures correctly. So Ive looked very carefully at everything  Mr M and 
Sainsburys have said. 
Ref: DRN62821592I dont have any reason  to doubt that Mr M sent the letters to Sainsburys. But for some 
reason the bank didnt receive  them. And Mr M says he didnt receive  any correspondence 
from Sainsburys about his account or the notice  of default. 
I can see the account statements were sent to Mr Ms UK address until April 2017. Hed 
been making payments to the account  but they stopped in February 2017. The statements 
for May 2017  onwards  were addressed to Mr Ms overseas residence. And they show the 
balance and any charges or interest applied  each month.
Mr M has acknowledged he is responsible for the outstanding  balance.  And I cant really say 
Sainsburys hasnt tried to make him aware of the situation. Mr M was sent monthly  
statements. And the bank wrote to him on 4 August 2017 to confirm the balance on the 
credit card was £5081.93  with the most recent payment received for £20 on 28 July. 
I do appreciate Mr M wanted the bank to suspend  the default while he resolved a number of 
matters. But Sainsburys doesnt have to do that. It felt it was the appropriate course of 
action after Mr M stopped making the contractual payments  towards his account.
From what  Ive seen I cant say Sainsburys applied the default unfairly. It acted  within the 
terms and conditions of the account.  Although it didnt receive Mr Ms correspondence  it was 
able to contact  him overseas. Mr M shouldve received monthly statements in the UK and 
then abroad detailing his account balance and any interest and charges. And his 
correspondence suggests he was aware a default might be placed on his account.
Sainsburys applied the default six months after the first payment had been missed,  although 
the terms allowed  for a default to be placed  after three months. And it gave the necessary 
notice before applying the default.  So I think Sainsburys  has followed its procedures 
correctly. I know Mr M says he didnt receive the letters or statements. But Ive not seen 
anything to suggest they werent sent  any more than I dont doubt Mr M wrote to 
Sainsburys before  he moved abroad.
I wouldve  expected  Sainsburys  to respond  positively and sympathetically once it became 
aware of Mr Ms poor health and financial circumstances.  And I can see the bank refunded  
interest and charges for a number of months to help the situation. But it wasnt  able to reach  
a suitable arrangement with Mr M to move  forwards.  
Mr M says he wants to reach an agreement with the bank. And I realise it is difficult to 
discuss matters with Sainsburys  now he lives abroad. Its expensive to telephone and calls 
can last a long period  of time.  But Mr M would need to provide his current income and 
expenditure to enable  Sainsburys to determine  an appropriate course  of action if he wants 
to reach  an affordable repayment plan.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But, based on what Ive seen,  
Sainsburys has followed its procedures properly when applying the default to his account 
when he was unable  to make any further payments. And I think its made reasonable efforts 
to keep Mr M informed. So I wont be asking the bank to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN62821593Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6282159