K821x#15complaint
Mr K and Ms M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wouldnt offer them a 
further advance  on their interest  only mortgage.
background
Mr K and Ms M have  an interest only mortgage with Halifax. It has around 12 years  left to 
run on the term.
Mr K and Ms M say their property needs some works doing  rear doors  are no longer 
secure and need  replacing, as does the roof  so they applied  to Halifax  for a further 
advance on their interest only mortgage.  They  wanted to borrow £50,000.
Halifax considered  their application.  It said it would only consider offering further lending if 
the entire mortgage was converted to repayment terms from interest only terms. It said this 
was because Mr K and Ms M didnt have an acceptable repayment strategy for their existing 
interest only mortgage.
Mr K and Ms M complained. They said it wasnt a fair decision. They had substantial 
incomes. Their loan to value was less than 50% and the further borrowing would only take 
them to just over 50%. They did have a repayment strategy  Ms M retires towards the end 
of the term, at which point  they will move  house and downsize. They have plenty  of equity in 
the property and are planning to move to a new area so this is a plausible plan. And, Mr K 
said, Halifax had offered to lend him £50,000 as an unsecured loan at twice the interest rate 
 which  shows, he said, that it was only interested in making as much money out of them as 
it could.
Our investigator thought that Halifax should  have been willing  to consider a further advance 
on repayment terms, with the main  mortgage  remaining on interest only. He said it should 
now re-consider the application on that basis, and be prepared to lend on that basis  if its 
other criteria  (such  as affordability) are met. Halifax didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
I agreed with the investigator as to the outcome. But because my reasoning  was different, I 
issued a provisional decision so the parties  could comment on my thinking. I said:
Ive considered all the evidence  in this case. Having  done so, I dont think Halifax 
offered to lend Mr K and Ms M £50,000  as a secured loan. Theres no evidence  that 
they ever applied for an unsecured loan,  or that Halifax considered an application. 
The screenshot Mr K has provided is taken from his online banking, where Mr K has 
put some  basic details into Halifaxs online calculator. The calculator has said we 
think you could afford  up to £50,000  the screenshot Mr K has provided doesnt 
show the whole of the webpage. But I think it would also have shown that this was an 
estimate, based on some very basic initial information, of the maximum it might  lend 
in some circumstances.  It certainly  isnt a guaranteed offer of lending;  at best its an 
invitation to make an application,  and little more than an advertisement. I dont think 
this is evidence that Halifax was prepared to lend Mr K £50,000 on an unsecured  
basis, or that this was the reason it refused a further advance  on the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN67522302It seems  to me that Halifax refused to consider this application  or, at least,  refused  
to consider it while the main mortgage  remained on interest only terms  was 
because of concerns  about Mr K and Ms Ms repayment strategy. 
Halifax says they applied for the mortgage originally with a strategy of using 
investments and investment properties  to repay  it. Mr K and Ms M say thats not 
correct. Thats not a dispute  I need  to resolve  in this case. Thats because the 
important point here is Mr K and Ms Ms current intentions, not whatever their 
strategy may have  been originally. I think its clear  that Mr K and Ms M plan to repay 
this mortgage  by selling the property and downsizing.
I think that as a matter  of regulation, Halifax could  have  offered Mr K and Ms M a 
further interest only advance on their mortgage   subject to affordability. Sale of the 
mortgaged property, provided theres enough equity in it to purchase another after 
repaying the mortgage, can be an acceptable  repayment strategy. 
However, thats not to say that Halifax should  have offered  it. The regulators rules 
around interest only repayment  strategies  are, it seems to me, a minimum standard.  
A lender is free to have tighter  restrictions than set out in the rules  if doing so 
matches its commercial risk appetite. The rules require a lender to have a lending  
policy, meeting at least the regulators  standards,  and to follow  it in making lending 
decisions.
Its therefore reasonable for Halifax to have  its own lending criteria, and to apply 
them to applications  for lending, including  further  lending. 
The problem here, in my view, is that this isnt what happened in this case.  I dont 
think Halifax fairly applied  its own criteria  to this application. 
Ive carefully reviewed Halifaxs lending criteria for interest only mortgages.  Sale of 
the mortgaged  property is allowed, but only where the applicants income is above a 
minimum value,  and where the loan to value is not above 50%, with a minimum 
equity requirement  of £300,000.
Mr K and Ms M dont  meet those criteria, since their combined income is not above 
the minimum value and the proposed  further  advance would take their borrowing 
over 50%.
However  and this is the part Halifax doesnt  appear to have considered  those are 
the criteria for new borrowers.  The lending criteria document also says that for further  
advance applications,  the minimum values dont  apply.  So Mr K and Ms M dont need  
to meet  the minimum  income  value  criterion  (though  they would still need to show  the 
borrowing would be affordable). And while the minimum loan to value on interest  only 
terms is 50%, the policy also says that further  borrowing  on repayment terms may be 
used to take the loan to value up to 75%.
What this means is that according to Halifaxs own criteria on interest only lending, 
Mr K and Ms M were  eligible  to apply for a further advance, keeping their main 
mortgage on interest only terms  provided  the further advance was on a capital 
repayment basis. Mr K and Ms M have confirmed they were prepared to borrow  on 
this basis.
Ref: DRN67522303I therefore dont  think that Halifax has fairly followed its own lending  criteria in this 
case. And to put matters right, it should  re-consider this application. Mr K and Ms M 
will still need  to satisfy  Halifaxs  other criteria  including affordability,  and the value 
and suitability of their property  but if they do, Halifax  should  not use their 
repayment strategy as a reason to refuse  to lend a further advance  on repayment 
terms, keeping the main mortgage  on interest only.
Halifax accepted  my provisional decision.  It said it would arrange for a mortgage adviser to 
contact Mr K and Ms M to take them through a fresh application to be considered  properly.
Mr K and Ms M also accepted my proposed outcome. But they wanted to stress that selling 
the property and downsizing has always been  their repayment strategy  and further 
borrowing on repayment terms that would be paid off by the end of the term wouldnt get in 
the way of that. And they accepted  that there was no guarantee they would have got a 
personal loan,  but they said it was highly likely to be approved according to what they were  
told at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has sent a different screenshot to the one sent before, showing a personal loan was 
highly likely to be granted. Although this isnt a guarantee, it does show an initial  automated 
check suggested they would be able to get a personal loan. However, I still dont think this is 
really relevant. Unsecured personal loans are different products, assessed  in different ways 
and with different  risks,  to mortgages. And a personal loan wasnt  what Mr K and Ms M really  
wanted.
The central point  here is that Mr K and Ms M wanted to apply  for a further advance on their 
mortgage. Halifax refused  that application   but in doing so it didnt apply its lending  criteria 
properly. 
Its agreed to look again, this time following the criteria in the right way. I think thats a fair 
outcome to this complaint. As I said, this doesnt mean Mr K and Ms M will definitely be 
approved for further borrowing  this decision was only about  whether they were  able to 
apply. They would  still have to pass affordability  and show  their property was good  security 
for the further  borrowing, among other factors. But at least now their application will be 
considered fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. Bank of Scotland  
plc trading as Halifax should reconsider Mr K and Ms Ms application, correctly following its 
lending criteria.
Ref: DRN67522304Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6752230