K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Lloyds Bank Plc didnt  help them manage with their overdraft when 
they were experiencing a time of financial difficulty. They  think  they should be refunded 
overdraft charges from this time. They also say the charges were disproportionate.
Background
Mr and Mrs G have had a current account with Lloyds for some  time. Attached  to this they 
have an overdraft with an approved limit of £600. This limit increased from £500  in June 
2014.
Before November 2017 Mr and Mrs G were charged  a monthly usage fee of £6, in addition  
to interest if they used  their overdraft. They were also charged  unplanned overdraft fees if 
they went into an unplanned overdraft.
Mr and Mrs G say they started to encounter financial difficulty from 2010  as a result  of a 
downturn in business for Mr G, who is self-employed.  They  say they had to rely on credit  and 
help from family to get by. This caused them to build up a substantial debt. They say Lloyds 
shouldve understood something  was wrong.  Theyd  been  using their overdraft continuously 
and had gone over their planned limit.
In 2014 Lloyds refunded £35 in charges. Mr and Mrs G say an annual  refund of charges 
shouldve taken place  each year. They complained  to Lloyds in February 2016 about  the 
charges and the lack of help from Lloyds.  Lloyds issued a final response letter, but this was 
only in relation to another complaint issue Mr and Mrs G had also raised at that time.
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to us. While the complaint has 
been with us Lloyds realised theyd  failed to address the complaint adequately in 2016.  As a 
result, they credited £150  to Mr and Mrs Gs account  for the poor service theyd received. 
They also refunded £181.04 in charges from the time theyd complained  in 2016 until 12 
June 2018. 
Mr and Mrs G chose to continue  their complaint. They say they think  they should be entitled 
to more than this.
Our investigator decided  not to uphold their complaint. They  found:
-A Supreme Court ruling  in 2009 found that unplanned overdraft fees didnt amount to 
penalties. The fees werent based  on the cost associated with an individual  customer 
but were costed based on the provision of current accounts to all their customers. 
The law is one of the things we need to take into account as part of our fair and 
reasonable remit. So based on the court ruling  it was unlikely the unplanned  
overdraft fees Mr and Mrs G had been charged were disproportionate.
-Lloyds should  treat customers fairly  who are experiencing  financial difficulty. But Mr 
and Mrs G hadnt made Lloyds aware of the difficulties they were experiencing. While 
they had been refunded charges in 2014, this didnt mean  Lloyds wouldve 
understood what was happening. This was because it isnt unusual  for a bank to 
refund fees to long standing customers.
-Thered been  occasions when Mr and Mrs G had gone  into an unplanned overdraft. 
But the extent  of this wasnt enough for Lloyds to have understood  something  was 
wrong and for them to have  got in in touch to see how they could help
Ref: DRN60940722-Mr and Mrs G had likely asked for an increase  to their overdraft  limit in June  
2014.This was probably to avoid the unplanned overdraft fees theyd been charged 
before. From late 2014 Mr and Mrs Gs account appeared to go into credit  most 
months and except for a seven month period in 2015 when there werent any further 
occasions when  they went into an unplanned overdraft.
-Even if Lloyds had understood Mr and Mrs G were experiencing problems, this didnt 
mean they shouldve  necessarily refunded  them all their charges. Lloyds mightve 
thought other actions  more appropriate,  such as removing the overdraft and offering 
them an arrangement to pay to pay off their debt. This couldve resulted in Mr and 
Mrs Gs credit file being impacted.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed.  They say they went into a branch in Newcastle at one point for a 
review of their account. During this meeting Lloyds were made  aware of their situation but no 
further help was offered. Their situation  had begun to improve  in 2014,  but this doesnt mean 
Lloyds shouldnt have  helped them more before this time. The recent  fees theyd refunded 
werent enough to make  up for their lack of help.
The complaint has now been referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G complaint  relates to a period of time when they were experiencing financial 
which has now since passed.  They think they should  be refunded all the overdraft charges 
they incurred during  this period. But they also think some of those charges; namely those 
they incurred when they went into an unplanned  overdraft were disproportionate.  I think its 
best to address these two aspects separately.
were the unplanned overdraft fees unfair?
Our investigator was clear on why the unplanned overdraft fees Mr and Mrs G were charged 
are unlikely to be unfair because of how much they cost.  The Supreme Court found  that 
such fees cannot be said to be penalties. A penalty  in this sense would be a term which  is 
unenforceable.
The law is something I must take into account  as part of my considerations. And I havent  
seen anything about the level of fees Mr and Mrs G were charged  which  would lead me to 
depart from the understanding  of the court.
did Lloyds do enough  to help?
Ive no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs G when they say they were  experiencing financial 
difficulty. I can see there have been  periods of time when they often went  over their planned 
overdraft and were charged  unplanned  overdraft fees as a result. I think these fees wouldnt 
have helped their situation. Its possible too that they went  into a branch to discuss their 
situation. And this might  be why they were  refunded £35 in 2014.
Ref: DRN60940723One of Lloyds responsibilities  to is to see how they can assist customers who are 
experiencing financial problems, taking into account  their individual circumstances. Looking  
at Mr and Mrs Gs account history I think there  were  occasions when they shouldve got in 
touch to see what their situation was. I say this because I think frequently incurring 
unplanned overdraft  fees is something they shouldve noticed.  And its likely to be something  
most customers would  want to avoid, including Mr and Mrs G.
But had Lloyds got in touch with Mr and Mrs G, its not at all clear what  assistance they 
shouldve offered or indeed whether Mr and Mrs G wouldve  been  happy with it. Mr and Mrs 
G say Lloyds shouldve  extended their overdraft  limit to £600 pounds  earlier  than they did. 
But while Lloyds should have regard to what their customers  want  when seeing how they 
can help, this doesnt mean they must agree to it. 
Lloyds may have thought other  solutions  were more appropriate in Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances. This mightve included  the removal of the overdraft  and a formal payment 
arrangement recorded  on their credit file. After all Mr and Mrs G say they were experiencing 
problems over some time. So I think this indicates  a longer term solution may have been an 
appropriate consideration, rather than only refunding  charges or increasing their 
indebtedness.
So I think Lloyds shouldve been  more pro-active in the past with Mr and Mrs G. But I dont 
think its clear  theyve  suffered a financial loss as a result of that inaction. Im pleased to hear 
Mr and Mrs Gs situation has now improved, but I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything 
more than theyve  already  done  with regards to compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6094072