K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that PSA Finance UK Limited registered adverse information  on her credit  
file which  has affected her ability to obtain credit.
background
In July 2017 Miss D was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with PSA.
In September  2017 Miss D was involved in a car accident.  The car was recovered to a 
compound for assessment of the damage.
In October  2017 Miss D contacted PSA and told them that her insurance  company had 
voided her policy due to the circumstances of the accident.
PSA said the car was worth £600 and therefore uneconomical to collect. It terminated the 
agreement which resulted in Miss D becoming  liable for the total outstanding balance.
Mrs D couldnt pay the outstanding balance  in full immediately so PSA set up a repayment 
plan. It recorded  a default on Miss Ds credit file starting on 24 September  2017 (the date of 
the accident) and also recorded late payments in October and November 2017.
Miss D says she was contacted later by a person who had purchased the car for £3000. 
Miss D is unhappy that adverse information  has been recorded  on her credit file. She says 
that following  the accident PSA stopped taking payments but she never cancelled her direct 
debit instruction and has made payments on time under the payment arrangement.  Miss D 
says the default  on he credit  file is preventing her from obtaining credit.  She wants it 
removed.
During the investigation PSA acknowledged that the late payment markers for October  and 
November 2017  were incorrect and removed these.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the default  had been correctly 
recorded because  Miss D had breached her agreement when her insurance policy was 
voided. The investigator said the agreement  was also breached  when the car was declared  
a total loss and the agreement terminated, because  the total outstanding balance fell due 
but wasnt paid.
In relation to the sale of the car the investigator  said PSA gave up its legal interest  in the car 
when it was declare  a total loss and terminated the agreement, so it wasnt responsible for 
anything that happened to the car after this.
Miss D didnt agree. She felt she was being treated unfairly by PSA and said she had done  
what it asked her to. She said the car had been  sold without her knowledge.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64567692Ive looked at Miss Ds credit file and I can see that a default was registered starting on 24 
September 2017. Late payments were recorded  in October and November 2017 but these 
have now been  removed.
Ive considered the reasons why the default was registered. PSA has explained that the 
default was registered because Miss D breached her agreement.
Looking at what happened I can see that the agreement was breached  as a result  of Miss D 
driving the car under the influence of alcohol.  The circumstances of the accident meant that 
Miss Ds insurance policy was voided by her insurance company.
The terms of Miss Ds agreement with PSA say that she must comprehensively insure  the 
car. Because Miss Ds insurance  policy was voided, this put her in breach of the agreement.
A second breach of the agreement happened  when  Miss Ds car was declared a total loss. 
PSA terminated the agreement. This action was in accordance with the terms of the 
agreement, which say that the agreement will be terminated if the car is written off. The 
effect of termination  was that the total amount outstanding under the agreement fell due 
immediately. Because  Miss D wasnt able to pay this sum immediately, PSA registered  a 
default.
I can see that PSA wrote to Miss D in November 2017 asking her to pay the outstanding 
balance. The letter also explained that if PSA had to take any steps  to recover  monies due 
under the agreement it can register  a default. Miss D didnt pay the outstanding balance 
immediately. So when  PA agreed a repayment  plan with her this amounted  to taking action 
to recover monies due under the agreement. Because of this Im satisfied that PSA was 
allowed to register the default.
I understand why Miss D feels  that there shouldnt be a default  registered on her credit file 
because shes made all of the payments under her repayment agreement on time. But as 
Ive explained  above, the default doesnt  relate  to payments under the payment agreement.  
It relates to Miss Ds breach of the agreement by having no insurance and by not paying the 
total sum outstanding following termination.
In the circumstances, Im unable to say that the default has been registered  incorrectly.  PSA 
is under  an obligation to report  accurate information  to the credit reference agencies  and Im 
satisfied that the information reflects what has happened  on Miss Ds account.
Ive taken account of Miss Ds comments about  PSA not assessing the damage to the car 
and selling it at auction without giving  Miss D the chance to pay for repairs. This didnt form 
part of Miss Ds complaint  so she will need to raise this with PSA first and give it an 
opportunity to investigate. 
In relation to the sale of the car at auction, I can see that PSA surrendered its legal interest  
in the car when  it was declared a total loss. The car became the property of the compound  at 
this point and it would  have been a matter for them as to whether they repaired the car and 
sold it at auction.  I havent  seen any information to confirm the sale price of the car but in 
any event, and for the reasons Ive explained,  the sale price of the car at auction isnt 
something for which PSA were responsible.
Ref: DRN64567693my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6456769