K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr P took receipt of a used car in September 2018. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. At the point of supply the car was about  three  years  old 
and had already  completed about  41,000 miles.
Mr P had some problems with the car. He complained to VWFS  that:
despite asking  for lights and levels  to be checked prior to delivery the Ad Blue ran out 
after 350 miles;
the clutch and steering  rack needed replacing  in November 2018;
overspray on the bonnet was not adequately repaired despite him paying for a paint 
and leather package;
there are now problems with the sensors  and an intermittent  cut out.
But VWFS didnt think they needed  to take any further action.  They explained that the clutch 
and steering rack had now been repaired and the problems with the sensors  and intermittent 
cut out hadnt  been  investigated  or corroborated. They explained that the dealership had 
provided evidence  that the pre collection checks had been completed and they explained 
that the paint package  wasnt  financed  through the agreement they had with Mr P. They 
therefore forwarded his that part of his complaint to the dealership to consider.
Mr P was disappointed with their responses  so he referred his complaint to this service  and 
our adjudicator provided an opinion. She noted that the clutch and steering column issues  
were now resolved and she didnt  think  the sensor or cut out problems had been  
investigated by the dealership. She explained that even  if they were  she would need to be 
satisfied they were faults that were present when  the car was collected by Mr P and she 
didnt think there was evidence this was the case. She explained that the paintwork package  
was an arrangement Mr P had with the dealership and that hed therefore  need to pursue 
that part of his claim with them and overall,  she didnt think  it would be reasonable to 
suggest VWFS take any further action.
But Mr P disagreed with the adjudicator. He said it was clear the pre-delivery inspection 
hadnt been completed as, if it had, he would not have experienced the issues  he did. He 
said his complaint was about the finance  company but was also about  the dealership and he 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr P so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN61858332Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr P. The car here 
was around three years  old and had travelled about  41,000 miles. I think  a reasonable 
person would expect  some wear and tear on a vehicle of this age and mileage but not a 
significant amount.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.  
But VWFSs  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
The relevant  legislation  allows VWFS one opportunity to repair faults that are present on the 
car at the point  of supply. Mr P identified problems with the clutch  and steering column quite 
early on and I think its reasonable to assume  that they were therefore either present or 
developing at the point the car was supplied to him. VWFS repaired the faults and Mr P 
accepted the repair.
Mr P now says there are issues with the sensors and an intermittent cut out but Im not 
persuaded these  issues  have been  investigated  or corroborated. Id also need to be 
persuaded that the issues were present on the car from the beginning  or that they 
demonstrated the car had not proven to be suitably  durable. I dont have the evidence to 
suggest that was the case or that the faults are present.  
So, overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to suggest this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when supplied.
Mr P complains that the pre-delivery inspection checks were not carried out adequately but 
VWFS dispute that and have provided a copy of the pre-collection checklist from the 
dealership. I understand that Mr P says the Ad Blue would not have run out after only 300 
miles if the pre-collection checks  were adequate and if the dealership  had done  a thorough  
light and level check prior to collection.
Ref: DRN61858333I can see that the pre-delivery inspection doesnt say the Ad Blue was topped  up. I think its 
reasonable to assume that means  the level was satisfactory at that point (July 2018). It may 
not have been at maximum but Ive not seen evidence to suggest Mr P asked for the levels  
to be topped up to maximum.  And regardless,  I am not persuaded that this in itself would be 
a reason to reject  the vehicle.
The paint protection plan is not financed by the hire purchase agreement Mr P has with 
VWFS and its therefore not their responsibility  to resolve any issues  with it. I can see that 
VWFS have  referred that part of Mr Ps complaint to the dealership who will provide 
information about who he can escalate  the complaint to should he remain dissatisfied with 
their response i.e. this service or the Motor Ombudsman.
However, taking all of the information into account Im not persuaded that it would be 
reasonable to ask VWFS to take any further action  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6185833