K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc (as it is now) inappropriately advised  him to 
open an Abbey National  Retirement Investment Account (ANRIA). He says he was advised 
to contract  out of SERPS (State  Earnings Related Pension Scheme) and transfer benefits 
into the ANRIA from his former occupational  pension scheme  (OPS).
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 30 September 2020.  I set out the 
background and circumstances of the case in that decision. In summary, Mr S opened the 
ANRIA in 1989. At the time he was in his late 30s and earning around £9,500 a year. He 
transferred the benefits from his OPS into the account in July 1989. A transfer value was 
paid of £1,187. 
Mr S provided documentation  hed had from the OPS Trustees from the time he left 
employment and at around the time he was considering transferring out of the scheme. 
These suggested that the pension the OPS would have provided when Mr S reached 
retirement age was £1,015.96. 
I explained that there was some element of doubt  about the amount payable. And that we 
had tried to confirm the position with the OPS Trustees. But that hadnt  been possible. So Id 
had to make  an assumption  based  on all the evidence that was currently  available, and I 
was satisfied the likely figure was £1,015.96.
Santander had said the ANRIA was a non-regulated  product and no regulated  advice had 
been given. I noted Mr S had said that hed been  sold the product by an employee in the 
branch. I said a pension  transfer from a defined benefits scheme wasnt a straightforward 
transaction. And I didnt think it was the type of transaction that most ordinary investors 
would think about  arranging without some form of prompting and or encouragement.  
I said Mr S employment and background wouldnt suggest he had knowledge or experience 
in this area. And I thought  the firms own guidelines from the time suggested that although 
the ANRIA wasnt  regulated it was treated from a sales  viewpoint as though it was regulated. 
It could only be advised on by authorised reps. I said in all the circumstances I thought  it was 
more likely than not that Mr S had been advised whether the product was appropriate for 
him. 
Santander hadnt been able to provide a copy of the illustration that Mr S would have been 
given when the transfer was arranged showing what benefits he might  receive  from the 
ANRIA. However it had provided a copy of other illustrations given to clients at around that 
time. I therefore used  these to try and recreate the figures that Mr S would likely have been 
given.
The ANRIA  was a deposit-based scheme  and provided a return dependent  on the rates of 
interest the account  was paying  over time.  The illustrations would have provided two values 
based on interest rates of 12.25  and 9%.
I calculated that using the assumed annuity rate of 9% at the time,  the estimated income 
provided by the ANRIA  would have been around £2,034 and £961. I said these figures 
werent directly comparable with the £1,015 per year for the OPS. But I said the £2,034 
Ref: DRN68374012adjusted downward  for comparative purposes  to around £1,400/1,500 would still have been 
materially higher  than the £1,015 provided by the OPS.
I explained Id had to make  a number of assumptions as to the level of benefits that would 
have been estimated in 1989 for the OPS  and the ANRIA at retirement date. However, I 
thought what was key was that the level of pension estimated from the OPS was just over 
£1,000. Mr S had been in his late 30s at the time of transfer, so he had time to make further 
pension provision before he reached retirement age. 
Given the amount  involved, I didnt think Mr S would  have expected  to rely solely  on the 
pension from the OPS in retirement. So I didnt think it was inappropriate for him to take 
some risk with it. And at the time there appeared to be a reasonable opportunity to improve  
on the benefits otherwise provided by the OPS through the transfer.
So taking everything into account, in particular  the amount involved and based  on the 
assumption that £1,015 was the appropriate  figure estimated to be payable  from the OPS,  I 
didnt think the transfer would have  appeared to have been inappropriate at the time. 
In terms of Mr S complaint about SERPS,  I explained the factors that were  taken into 
account in deciding whether it was likely that someone would be better off contracting  out of 
SERPS. This included  the persons age, income and the schemes charges. I said taking all 
these factors into account, I didnt think it was inappropriate for Mr S to have contracted  out 
of SERPS given his circumstances  at the time. So my provisional decision was not to uphold 
Mr S complaint.
I invited Mr S and Santander  to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted  
me to take into account before I made  my final decision. Santander said it agreed with my 
provisional decision.
Mr S said he realised  it was a difficult case,  but still thought the motivation behind the sale of 
the ANRIA was commission and for the benefit of the firm. On the whole, he didnt think  the 
firm had acted in his best interests.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision as outlined above.
I realise Mr S is disappointed with my findings  and understand his suspicions about the 
motivation behind the sale of the product. However,  for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision and given the evidence  that is available, I dont think contracting out of 
SERPS or the transfer were  inappropriate given the particular circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN68374013my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6837401