K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about advice she was given by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc when she 
asked about voluntarily terminating  a conditional  sale agreement. 
background
Mrs B entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander in June 2016 to acquire a 
new car. She contacted it in May 2018  to ask how much it would cost to voluntarily terminate 
the finance  agreement. Mrs B was told she was almost half way through  the agreement. If 
she waited another month, she would  just have  to pay the collection fee. Mrs B was told to 
contact Santander in a month to discuss this further and to put her request  in writing.  Mrs B 
did this. The advice Mrs B was incorrect. She had to pay half of the sums due under the 
agreement rather than reach the half way point under it. 
Mrs B was contacted by the collections department In June 2018.  It advised Mrs B had a 
liability of £4250 plus refurbishment costs and a £70 arrangement  fee. Mrs B was 
unhappy at this as she had already sourced another  car and had paid a £200  
arrangement fee. She complained  to Santander . It offered a 25% reduction  on the 
termination fee. Mrs B is not happy with this. Santander has offered a further £100.  Mrs B 
brought a complaint to us to consider. 
The investigator considered Santander had made  a mistake which it had tried to put right. 
She considered that it should  refund the arrangement fee on Mrs Bs new car. 
Mrs B replied to say in summary that she would like Santander to allow  her to end the 
agreement at no further cost from 31 March 2019.  
Santander said if Mrs B wanted  to go ahead with a voluntary  termination,  it would discuss a 
repayment plan with her. Santander will pay half of the arrangement  fee as Mrs B should not 
have started to look for another car while her agreement with Santander was still continuing. 
Santander will reduce  Mrs Bs current liability by 25%, and pay £100 compensation. 
The investigator noted that in a letter dated  14 August 2018, Santander offered to reduce 
Mrs Bs liability by 25%. This was a figure of £1.062.50. The investigator  said this has now 
been change to 25% of current  liability. The two sums are different.  Santander should pay 
the first discount it offered. 
Santander replied  to say it will not offer the same reduction that was offered in 2018.  Mrs B 
did not accept  this offer. Mrs B has been  able to use the car for an additional eight months  
which will have increased the mileage and wear and tear on the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has accepted that it gave incorrect advice to Mrs B in May 2018 when she asked 
about the cost of voluntarily terminating her finance  agreement. Mrs B was told she only had 
to pay a further months  payment, when in actual  fact she had to pay £4,250  to end the 
agreement voluntarily. 
Ref: DRN64717352So its left to me to decide if the remedy offered is fair and reasonable.
Santander initially offered  to reduce the sums Mrs B had to pay before she could voluntarily 
end the agreement by 25%. This was equivalent  to £1,062.50. Santander also said it would  
offer Mrs B £100 compensation. It confirmed this offer in a letter to us dated 14 August 2018. 
Santander now says it is only prepared to reduce the sums Mrs B owes  by 25% of her 
current liability rather than the sum of £1,062.50 it originally offered. I do not consider it is fair 
for Santander to change  the reduction  it was prepared to offer Mrs B. I am aware she has 
had the car for a longer  period. Mrs B has however made payments under the agreement  to 
reflect this. I consider it is fair for Santander  to honour the offer it originally  made  for the 
incorrect advice it gave to Mrs B. She was told she could end the agreement  for a minimal  
charge when  in fact she still had over £4,000 to pay. On the basis of the incorrect advice, 
Mrs B started to look for other cars and she paid an arrangement  fee of £200. I agree with 
the investigator  that Mrs B should  receive  a refund of this sum.  She incurred it due to 
incorrect advice from Santander. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. Santander  Consumer (UK) should:
Reduce the amount Mrs B has to pay to voluntarily terminate the finance agreement  
by £1,062.50
Pay Mrs B £100 for trouble and upset
Pay Mrs B £200
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6471735