K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about a mortgage  endowment policy sold in 1994  to her and her then 
husband for which RMIS (RTW) LIMITED is responsible. She makes  a number of points 
(through a representative)  but in summary  says the policy was unsuitable  because  she 
wasnt informed about the risks involved  in taking it out. 
She also complains that she was advised to surrender  an existing policy. She thinks  that 
was bad advice.
background
The information available shows that Mrs Hs Mortgage Investment Plan came into force  
on 9 December 1994. This had a guaranteed death benefit of £66,400, a term of 25 
years, and monthly premiums of £92.70.  The plan is still in force.
The business initially  said the complaint had been brought too late under the rules  which  
apply. It said that Mrs H had received the required warning letters about the policy. 
According to the business  those letters start the time bar clock  which it said ended on 
27 February 2004. 
Mrs Hs representative disagreed. It brought the complaint here. It said that the first red 
high risk warning letter  relied on by the business  was not effective. That was, it said,  
because it didnt contain all the information  required  by the regulator. Therefore no effective 
deadline date had been given. The representative brought  the complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint. He thought that it was one we could consider. 
As the parties know  the business continued to disagree. As a result a decision was issued 
by me to the effect that the complaint was within my jurisdiction  to consider. To be clear I 
have looked again at the question of jurisdiction  and I am still of the view the complaint is 
one we can consider.
As a result of staff moves another adjudicator then looked at the merits of the complaint. She 
thought it should be upheld. In summary,  the adjudicator thought:
there was insufficient evidence  to demonstrate  that any binding guarantee had been  
given.
the policy was not suitable  because of the level of risk it presented.  She thought that 
level of risk was too high for Mrs H and her then husband. She thought if Mrs H had 
known about and understood the risks presented by this policy  she and her husband 
wouldnt have taken  it out.  To put it another way when Mrs H and her then husbands 
overall circumstances  were considered she thought  a policy investing 100% in a 
managed fund, lacking any guarantees or safety nets as it did, was too risky and didnt 
match the attitudes to risk of the clients.
however having  considered all of the evidence, the adjudicator didnt think the other part 
of the complaint should be upheld. That was a complaint that an existing policy  had 
wrongly been surrendered. She thought that on balance  the evidence  suggested  that the 
surrender was taking  place  against  the advice of the advisor.
Ref: DRN64320812the adjudicator  thought the business should  calculate  and pay redress as set down by 
the regulator - that is perform an RU89 calculation.
The representative accepted the adjudicators  view.  The business  didnt.  I think  it fair to 
summarise its response as being that:
Mr A and Mrs H had some investment experience. That experience  was in funds 
presenting a similar level of risk to the policy sold.
it thought that existing  savings which the adjudicator thought were being used to finance  
the house move were  not. It thought Mr A and Mrs H would have been able to replace 
those savings. That meant that any possible  shortfall could be met from savings.
earnings would increase  as the children  grew up.
underperformance of the policy would be offset by lower  interest  rates and mortgage 
costs.
an offer for the sale of the property was accepted,  despite  it resulting in negative  equity  - 
therefore Mr A and Mrs H were not risk averse.
we should  consider  the effect of the length  of time since  the sale and the warning letters 
sent in deciding what is fair and reasonable.
After further exchanges the business still thought the existing investments were  relevant and 
indicated a willingness  to take risks. It also thought that ages of Mr A and Mrs H meant that 
there would be time to deal with any shortfall. Also that overall it thought the 
recommendation was suitable.
As the parties couldnt  agree I have been asked to issue a final decision. The file has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint.
I will now explain why. Although I have  read the whole  file I will only refer to the evidence 
and arguments  which I think are directly relevant to the issues  here.  I have considered the 
effect of the length of time since the sale and warning letters sent.  The passage of time can 
of course have an effect on the quality and availability of the evidence.  This is not however a 
case where a policy  was surrendered a very long time ago. Often  in those cases there is 
little or no evidence available.
But this policy is still in force. It is a credible complaint and there  is clear  evidence both to 
support the sale and the complaint. It is difficult to see what  unfairness arises from us 
considering this specific complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there is insufficient  evidence to conclude  a legally binding 
guarantee was given  as to the performance of the policy. I do not doubt that the policy was 
spoken of in very positive terms and the benefits emphasised. However  there were also 
Ref: DRN64320813warnings and an illustration which explained  that the policy  was not guaranteed to repay the 
mortgage and demonstrated what would happen if returns  were poor.
As regards  the surrender of an existing  policy the position is far from clear.  As is often the 
case here the evidence is contradictory. Mrs H says she was advised to surrender the 
existing policy. The documentary evidence from the time suggests otherwise. That suggests 
that Mr A and Mrs H were advised  not to surrender  the policy. Of course I can never know 
what happened. All I can do is form a view based on the evidence  as to what  I think  is most  
likely to have happened but only uphold a complaint where I can safely do so. 
While it was not unknown  for advisors  to recommend that an existing policy be surrendered 
so a new or a bigger sale could be made to the advisors benefit  I dont  think  I can come  to 
that conclusion  here.  
In my view the nature  of the risk presented by a mortgage endowment  policy is quite 
different from other simple  investment  risk. A poorly performing  investment or one which  
performs badly at the time of its maturity  presents  a very different kind of problem to a poorly 
performing mortgage  endowment policy. 
When a mortgage  contract is entered into the consumer undertakes a contractual obligation 
to repay  the mortgage at or before a certain date.  To fail to do so is a breach of the terms of 
the mortgage. It can lead to arrears, charges, effects on credit  history and, ultimately, 
repossession of (often) a family  home. Those can be exceptionally  serious consequences. 
The failure of a savings or investment plan to perform well may be disappointing but is not in 
my view of the same  degree  as the failure  of a mortgage endowment policy.  
The fact that a consumer has existing risk based  savings, investment or protection policies is 
of course relevant to an advisor  when making  a sale. It may give an insight into whether a 
client has the understanding,  experience and willingness to take a certain level of risk. 
However because  of the issues I refer to above  I dont  think it is a simple  matter of 
transferring across an apparent agreement with a level of risk with savings to risk taken with 
mortgage repayment. Here, Mr A and Mrs H were in such  a difficult position  that they had to 
accept an offer which resulted in negative equity.  I think it highly unlikely they would have 
done that unless under great pressure and unless they felt they had to.
The file the business has produced is broadly complaint and much as I would expect from 
the time.  However  the attitude to risk assessment in that file doesnt  mention mortgages. Of 
course the business might say - what else could it be about?  However the review covers the 
whole of the consumers finances - not just mortgages. The assessment doesnt give any 
indication of the consequences of the choices the consumers were  making.
This policy was taken out in joint names,  with Mr A, but the policy  was assigned into 
Mrs Hs sole name in February 1999. Due to this, Ive considered both of their 
circumstances at the time of sale.
In summary  Mr A was working and Mrs H looking after their two children. They had some 
savings and a gift from their parents. The whole of life policy and savings  plans were  running 
at the time of the sale complained of here. They were not first time buyers. They  seem  to 
have been effected by the difficult property market at the time and had to (or felt they had to) 
accept a low offer for their last house which resulted in negative equity. 
Ref: DRN64320814I understand what the business says about that but I am not persuaded it reflects  anything 
other than people in a very difficult situation.  They were  already depending on a risk based 
policy to repay their mortgage and had the uncertainties of a house move  and negative 
equity. Quite why they should be advised to take on more risk (and as a managed fund not 
the lowest level of risk) is not, to me, clear.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct that RMIS (RTW) LIMITED calculate  and pay redress  as set 
out below. The business should  calculate redress using the formula set down by the 
regulator. That is commonly  known  as an RU89  calculation. That compares the position 
Mrs H and Mr A is in with the position she would have been  in had this policy not been sold 
and a repayment mortgage taken  out instead.  
The calculation should be performed to the date of this decision. It should be paid within 28 
days of Mrs H accepting this decision.  If it is not then interest at 8% should be paid from the 
date of this decision  to the date of payment. If the business is advised to deduct tax from any 
interest it may do so. If it does however it must  provide a tax deduction  certificate to allow  a 
claim for a refund to be made if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.  
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6432081