K820x#14Complaint 
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to make him aware  that he wasnt  
earning interest on his Santander current account.  
Background 
In 2016, Mr C opened a Santander 123 account.  As part of the account terms, he could earn 
interest on his credit  balance. In March 2019,  he complained  to Santander after realising he 
wasnt earning credit interest on his account balance. 
Santander responded to the complaint. It said that Mr C didnt receive  interest in some  
months because he hadnt met the criteria required as part of the account terms but did pay 
him £50 as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr C didnt accept Santanders response. He acknowledged that he didnt  always meet the 
criteria needed to earn interest  on the account but felt that Santander should have done 
more to make him aware of this. In particular, he said they should have text or emailed him 
about not meeting the criteria. Mr C also explained that he was paying £5 a month for the 
account and understood that he was paying this fee so that Santander could help him 
maintain the account.    
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She thought that Santander had acted in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account  and dealt  with the complaint fairly.  Mr C disagreed 
with the investigators  opinion,  so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
My Findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained above, Mr C recognises that he didnt  always meet  the criteria needed to earn 
interest on the account but feels that Santander should have done more  to make him aware  
of this. So, Ive looked into how Santander  made  Mr C aware of the eligibility criteria he 
needed to meet on the account. 
Santander have  provided us with a copy of the terms and conditions  that apply to the 
account. In this document it explains that you must  pay at least £500  into your account  every 
month and have at least two active direct debits in order  to be eligible for cashback  and 
interest on the account. Im satisfied that the terms and conditions  are clear enough for Mr C 
to understand  what was required  of him. 
Ive also reviewed Mr Cs bank statements. There is a summary at the top of each  statement  
which sets out if Mr C had earned  any interest  or cashback in any given month.  This is 
highlighted in a red box on each statement. These statements would have helped Mr C to 
see that there were  a number of months  where  he had failed to earn any interest.  
In addition to this, each statement also had the following message, To receive  cashback  
and interest you must pay in at least £500  a month  and have a minimum  of two active Direct 
Debits. This acted as a monthly reminder  of the criteria that Mr C needed to meet in order  to 
earn interest  on the account. There are some months where  Mr C didnt have two active  
Ref: DRN64547182direct debits and didnt pay £500 into the account  so he wasnt  eligible to receive interest. 
But I think Santander have given enough  information to show  Mr C that he wasnt  earning 
interest on his account. 
Mr C sent in three pages from Santanders  website. He explained that these pages 
confirmed that the account offered a facility of text and email alerts  and that he didnt receive  
any highlighting the fact he wasnt meeting the criteria on the account. Ive had a look at the 
pages Mr C has sent us. 
Although the website  refers to the account including text and email alerts it doesnt  say that 
this facility will be used to highlight when the criteria on the account isnt being  met. 
Santander have  confirmed that alerts  are usually sent to make customers aware of when 
they are likely to incur charges, for example  to stop a customer incurring overdraft fees. The 
website pages  dont refer to texts  or emails  being sent when the account  criteria isnt being 
met. I also havent seen  anything else to suggest  Santander told Mr C it would do this. So, I 
dont think it wouldnt be fair to say that Santander  have done  something wrong  by not 
sending alerts. 
Mr C has also explained that he paid Santander  a £5 fee to maintain the account and that 
this was another reason  for them to make  him aware that the account criteria wasnt  being 
met. There is nothing in the terms and conditions of the account which  suggests  that 
Santander will manage his account  on his behalf.  So, I dont think it would be fair to assume 
this was the purpose of this fee. 
I note Santander  have paid Mr C £50 compensation despite not meeting the criteria on the 
account. I dont  think  it needs to pay him anything further. 
I appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome  but for the reasons set out
above, I dont  uphold this complaint. Overall, Im satisfied that Santander acted  fairly  in the 
way it has applied interest to Mr Cs account.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.  
Daniel Little
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6454718