K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that he was mis-sold  a Total Mortgage Protection  Policy (TMPP) by Bank  
of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax. He says he was told he had to take out the policy 
but had no need for it as he has a large amount of equity in the mortgaged  property. 
 
background 
Mr R took out the policy in 2003. It provided him with life and critical illness cover.  
BoS explained that Mr R had been under no obligation to take out the policy.  Rather,  it was 
simply a recommendation  based  upon an assessment  of his circumstances and needs at the 
time. 
However, upon review,  it accepted that Mr Rs circumstances  were  such that he hadnt  really 
needed the life cover. So it offered to refund this part of his premiums, plus interest. But it felt 
the critical illness cover would have been  useful for him. Mr R wasnt  happy with this so he 
referred the complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was sufficient  evidence  to show that Mr R had been misled 
about the need to take out the policy. But he did think  that as Mr Rs mortgage had been  on 
capital repayment  the cover  shouldve been on a decreasing  term basis rather the level term, 
which is what was sold. The adjudicator therefore  recommended that BoS refund any 
difference in cost between Mr Rs policy  and an equivalent decreasing policy.
BoS explained that the TMPP had only provided  level cover at the time. But it accepted the 
adjudicators view and explained it was prepared  to do the required calculation. This was 
communicated to Mr R, who accepted the offer. 
It then became clear  that decreasing cover wouldnt have been any cheaper,  so Mr R hadnt 
actually incurred a loss on the critical illness cover. He wasnt  happy with this outcome and 
asked that the matter  be referred to an ombudsman  as he still felt the whole policy had been 
mis-sold, so he should receive a refund of all the premiums hed paid. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons.  
BoS has explained that the TMPP wasnt a condition of lending  and that it would ultimately 
have been up to Mr R to decide  what types  of cover  he wanted. While I have no reason to 
doubt Mr Rs recollections of the sale, Ive not seen  that the documentation  issued  at the 
time supports what hes said. And at that time life or critical illness cover wouldnt generally 
have been obligatory. The adviser  may have  been persuasive, but its quite usual for a 
recommendation of cover  to be made  at the time of a new mortgage being taken out. So, on 
balance, I dont think I can conclude  that BoS did anything wrong generally in make  a 
recommendation. 
But clearly  some aspects of the sale werent  right. BoS has acknowledged  that life cover 
wasnt suitable for Mr R and has refunded the cost of this to him, with interest. So I wont 
comment further on that aspect. 
Ref: DRN64239772And with regard to the critical illness cover, I can understand  Mr Rs frustration at accepting  
the offer but then there  being no refund forthcoming.  But it was sometimes the case  that 
decreasing cover was more expensive than level cover, even though this seems counter-
intuitive. So, while Mr R was effectively sold the wrong thing, I dont think  theres anything 
more that BoS needs to do to put things right. 
I know Mr R feels  strongly  that the critical illness cover was also mis-sold. But, as noted, Im 
satisfied it was simply a recommendation and ultimately the cover was suitable for his 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that Bank of Scotland  plcs offers to Mr R have 
been fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, so I dont require it to take any further 
action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6423977