K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to tell him that the discounted 
interest rate for his mortgage product was coming to an end. He wants the extra  interest hes 
paid as a result refunded.
background
Mr R had a mortgage  product  with Santander  with a discounted interest rate for a period of 
time. He said that Santander didnt do enough to tell him that the discount was coming to an 
end and he would move onto the standard variable rate. He wanted  to be refunded  the extra  
interest he paid as a result as if hed been  on the lowest discounted interest rate.
Mr R complained to Santander.  It said that it wrote to Mr R to tell him that the discount  was 
ending, and the mortgage statements sent each year told Mr R when the interest rate would 
end.
Mr R complained to us. The investigators view was that Santander wasnt at fault.  She said 
that the mortgage offer made it clear when  the discounted interest  rate period ended and 
that Santander never promised to put Mr R on another product when it ended.  The 
investigator noted that Santander also wrote to Mr R to let him know  that his discount  was 
coming to an end, and asked him to contact  them. She also pointed  out that the mortgage 
statements said when the discount ended. The investigator said lenders werent required to 
tell consumers about new products or invite them to apply  for a new one; it was the 
consumers responsibility  to check the rates available and make an application.
Mr R disagreed. He said the investigators decision undermined the authority  of the 
ombudsman. Mr R felt one letter wasnt sufficient to tell him that his discount had ended. 
The investigator said that Santander had told Mr R more than once about the end date of the 
discount and didnt change her view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R was, in my view, told more than once  when the discounted interest  rate would end. He 
was told in the mortgage offer, which he accepted. He was also told in the mortgage  
statements sent each  year after he took out the product.  Santander did also send one letter  
just as the product ended to tell Mr R know and to invite  him to contact it. The letter  was sent 
to the address given to Mr R for correspondence,  and if it wasnt received, that wasnt  
Santanders fault (though Mr R hasnt said the letter  didnt reach him, just that one letter 
wasnt enough).
Lenders are required to set out when the discounted  interest rate ends in the mortgage offer; 
after that, theyre not required to do more, though its good industry practice  to write and tell 
the consumer  when the product ends.  Santander did this in Mr Rs case. As the investigator 
has said, lenders arent required to offer new products  or to try to get consumers to apply for 
new products; its for the consumer to consider their financial needs and to make the 
enquiry.
Ref: DRN69144962my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 13 
April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6914496