K820x#14complaint
Ms Ps complaint is that Nationwide Building  Society didnt do more to help when she was 
the victim of a scam.
background
On 27 January 2019, Ms P received  an e-mail invoice from who she thought was her builder 
for some work that had recently been  completed.  She was expecting the invoice and it was 
from her builders actual e-mail address.  She authorised an online transfer for £3,616 to the 
account details  in the e-mail. She realised the following day that the builders email address 
had been hacked and shed instead  paid a scammer. 
Ms P made Nationwide aware of the scam and it contacted the beneficiary  bank  the 
following day. Unfortunately,  the beneficiary  bank  responded confirming there were no funds 
remaining in the account. Nationwide explained  that because Ms P had authorised  the 
transfer, it hadnt made an error  in following her instruction and therefore it would not refund 
the £3,616. Ms P didnt  accept this and brought the complaint to our service.
An adjudicator investigated the complaint  and felt that Nationwide  acted reasonably when it 
followed Ms Ps instruction to transfer the £3,616 and that it was unable to recover the funds  
once it was aware of the scam. Ms P disagreed  and so the complaint has been  brought to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Nationwide are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
Ref: DRN61125152identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. This is particularly 
so in light of the environment  created by the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years - which banks  are generally more  familiar with than the average  customer.  
In this case, I need to decide  whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Ms P when she made the transfer totalling £3,616 to a new payee, or whether it should 
have done more than it did. Having carefully  considered all of the information  available to 
me, I think  Nationwide did act reasonably when it followed Ms Ps instruction to make the 
transfer, and I dont think it needs  to refund her the £3,616.  Ill explain why in more  detail.  
Both Ms P and Nationwide agree that Ms P authorised  the transfer herself. At this point, I 
would like to highlight that it isnt in any way surprising that Ms P did willingly  authorise the 
transfer herself. This is because she was the victim of a particularly convincing  scam that, in 
my opinion, anyone  could fall for. Having said that, because  Ms P authorised  the transfer 
herself, Nationwide had a legal obligation to follow her instruction and process the transfer.  
But, as I mentioned previously, there  are some circumstances in which it would be 
appropriate for Nationwide to consider the wider circumstances surrounding the payment 
and look into it in more  detail. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  the transaction  itself was out of character for Ms P. 
To do this, Ive looked at her bank statements for the time running  up to the transfer. Looking 
at these, I dont think the payment itself was particularly unusual  or suspicious when 
compared to her normal account activity. I say this because Ms P has made  other transfers 
and bill payments  for similar or higher values than the transfer in question. Overall, I dont 
think it was unreasonable that Nationwides system didnt  flag payment as suspicious in the 
circumstances. 
Ms P sent the £3,616 on 27 January 2019  and she made Nationwide aware of the scam on 
the evening of 28 January, at around  7:30pm.  Nationwide contacted the beneficiary bank the 
following day to request a return of the funds, but unfortunately none of Ms Ps funds 
remained. Ms P has made the point that Nationwide could have acted quicker to try and get 
the funds returned and I agree, I dont  see any obvious reasons for the delay in contacting 
the beneficiary bank.  But unfortunately, even  if Nationwide had acted  immediately, it 
wouldn't have  made a difference. I say this because the funds were withdrawn by the 
Ref: DRN61125153scammer on the morning  of 28 January,  before Ms P raised the scam complaint with 
Nationwide. 
Ms P has queried why Nationwide processed the payment when  the account name she 
entered to complete the transfer  didnt match the account name that it went to. At the time 
that Ms P made the transfer, banks were  required to use only the account  number  and sort 
code to identify  a beneficiary  account. Most banks didnt have a system in place that would 
allow them to cross-reference  account names  and it wasnt a requirement  for them  to do so. 
Because of this, Nationwide  acted reasonably when it only used the account number and 
sort code  provided  to them  to complete the transfer. 
Ms P has been the victim of a particularly convincing scam  and Im sorry that shes  had to go 
through this. Ive had to consider Nationwides actions when it processed the transfer  and 
when it tried to recover Ms Ps funds. Having done so, I can see no reason why it shouldnt  
have followed her instruction to transfer  the £3,616,  and while  I think it could have acted 
quicker to try and recover the funds, it wouldnt have made a difference  because  theyd 
already been withdrawn  by the scammer.  So, I dont think  it should  refund Ms P with the lost 
funds. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6112515