K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them two payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policies in 2001 and 2005 at the same  time as taking out a further 
advance on their mortgage. They applied for the mortgage and PPI policies in branch. 
The policies provided cover for Mr G only, for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. The 2001  policy offered to repay  £61.18 a month 
towards Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it 
cost £1.00 a month. The 2005 policy offered to repay £617.57 a month towards Mr and Mrs 
Gs mortgage balance  in the event  of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost £45.32 a month. 
At both times, Mr G was employed as an HR Manager. He has told us he was entitled  to six 
months sick and redundancy pay and didnt have any other means of repaying the mortgage 
should he be unable  to work.  Mr G has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale, 
although Lloyds  records show  that Mr G told it about an injury  he suffered in 2004. 
Mrs G was not covered  by either  policy.
Mr G says he had life insurance, but this would only pay out on his death. Whereas the PPI 
would pay out if he was unable to work through sickness or accident or was made 
involuntarily redundant.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 1996 and Mr 
and Mrs G took out a further advance in 2000, 2001  and 2005.  
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs 
Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs G about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN66183202The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs G arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
2001 sale
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN66183203complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs Gs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Ref: DRN661832042005 sale
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So, the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result,  it is appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN66183205Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policies were  appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
For both sales, Mr and Mrs G completed  a separate application form, specifically for the PPI. 
In 2005, the loan agreement described the PPI as optional and showed its monthly cost.   
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs G knew the policies 
were optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says that advice was provided  during both sales. This means Lloyds had to advise Mr 
and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether each policy was appropriate 
or suitable given  their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs G in 2001. It seems  Mr and Mrs G cant remember clearly  
what happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. 
Ref: DRN66183206This is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Gs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr G would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr G had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
I dont know what was discussed at the meeting in 2005, the documentary  evidence 
suggests that Lloyds took some steps  to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs G. The adviser  had information  about some of Mr and 
Mrs Gs financial  circumstances  as part of the mortgage application and asked  some  
questions about  their wider circumstances  such  as health issues.  But its not clear  that 
Lloyds did enough  to establish that the PPI was suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr and Mrs G given their circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policies.
-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policies  Mr G was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Gs finances would be put under strain if he were not 
working  even allowing for the sickness and redundancy  benefits  he was entitled  to 
and Mrs Gs income. The policies  would have helped Mr and Mrs G manage the 
consequences were  Mr G unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs G]. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr and Mrs G. 
There was nothing  about Mr Gs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. He hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that could affect his ability  to claim.  And Lloyds have records that show  his injury  was 
discussed and he was told that claims relating to this wouldnt be covered until hed 
been symptom  free for two years.  Theres nothing to suggest the injury had caused 
ongoing problems.  There were also no additional  restrictions  on cover  for mental 
health or back problems.
-While  the policies  included a requirement that Mr G be disabled or unemployed for 
60 days before they could  make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum 
of 12 months for each  claim, it still provided valuable  cover  given: Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances, the fact the policies protected the mortgage repayments relating to 
their home and the potential consequences  should Mr and Mrs G be unable  to make 
the repayments on loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  them  to understand what 
Lloyds was recommending to them  and make an informed decision about  whether to follow 
that advice and take out the policies.
Ref: DRN66183207the information
In 2001, Im satisfied its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs G were  given a broad 
description of what the policy was intended  to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their 
payments if Mr G were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs G would have taken  out the policy without  any sense  of what the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed to take out the policy.  
In 2005, I think that Lloyds most  likely did the above,  but I can also see that the loan 
agreement clearly showed the monthly  cost of the PPI that was sold at that time.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policies it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs G all of the 
information they needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Gs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
Ref: DRN66183208what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to Mr and 
Mrs G. So, I have gone on to consider whether  it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  out the policies, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found  that the policies were 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs G have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs G would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policies were  not fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs G were given about  the cost in 
2005 was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy,  such  as the benefit, 
limitations and exclusions  was not as clear as it should have been. And theres insufficient 
evidence for me to conclude that the cost was made clear  in 2001.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy in 2001,  it doesnt  appear Lloyds told them the exact premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs G applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs G 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds at the time or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs G would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meetings in which  they agreed to the policies.
Ref: DRN66183209In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs G would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Gs 
expectations about what the policies  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient 
to meet  their mortgage payment) were  significantly  different to what  they actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policies actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions and symptoms  that Mr G 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies;  
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr G be unable  to 
do their own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his training, education or ability 
reasonably qualified him to do;
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policies 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking out the 
policies. 
But the evidence  about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. He was eligible  for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr G says he had an injury about  a 
year before the PPI was taken  out in 2005 and that policy wouldnt have provided cover  had 
he needed time off work because of this  until hed been symptom  free for 24 months. But 
the evidence indicates that Mr G was told about this exclusion, so I think he was happy  to 
take out the PPI despite this limitation.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs G would have expected to make  a disability claim on the policies without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs G had known they could only claim for disability if Mr G was unable to do both 
his job and any similar job or any job which in the insurers view they might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr G was unable (through disability) to 
Ref: DRN661832010carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs G that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs G would  have  received  full sick pay for, and his 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs G would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs G be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policies. The policies allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Gs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policies. The policies were  suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr G were  made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would have taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN661832011Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policies they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policies in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2001  and 2005 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs G and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6618320