K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-NV  (CIGNA)  acted unfairly 
and unreasonably in declining his claim under  a travel insurance policy.  He wants  the claim 
paid.
background
Mr C had a travel insurance policy with CIGNA. He booked a cruise holiday, but had to 
cancel it due to ill-heath.  Mr C claimed  under the travel insurance policy,  but the claim was 
rejected. Mr C said that hed told CIGNA when he renewed the policy  that he was in good  
health and thered been no changes in his medical condition. He explained  that hed had 
doctors investigate his stomach issues and was told it was an ulcer;  he then booked the 
holiday to be later told he had stomach cancer.
Mr C complained to CIGNA.  It said that the policy  said Mr C had to tell CIGNA if he was 
under investigation  or awaiting the outcome of medical tests when he renewed the policy,  
booked a trip or paid the balance of a holiday. CIGNA said the medical  records showed that 
Mr C was awaiting test results  when he booked the cruise, and it was these tests that 
showed he had cancer. It also said that if Mr C had contacted it as required, he wouldve 
been told that anything connected  to the investigation couldnt be covered.
Mr C complained to us. CIGNA offered a refund of premiums of £216.67  plus interest The 
investigators view was that under the terms and conditions  of the policy, any medical  
condition for which Mr C had sought medical  advice was excluded if not declared. Mr C 
renewed his policy after seeing his GP about his stomach and hadnt declared it. And she 
noted that he booked the holiday  while awaiting  test results, and again didnt declare this. 
The investigator said that CIGNA had thought about what  it wouldve  done if the situation 
had been declared, as required by the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and shown it wouldnt have allowed the policy  to 
renew. She thought the refund was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr C disagreed but didnt  give details as to why.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that CIGNA has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr C renewed  the policy, but didnt disclose his stomach issue. He saw a GP about it before 
the policy renewed. The medical declaration, and the terms and conditions of the policy, 
made it clear  that Mr C had to disclose any medical conditions for which he received medical 
advice, treatment or tests.  He also had to tell CIGNA if he was being investigated or awaiting 
results when renewed, booked a holiday  or paid the balance.  Mr C was being  investigated 
from January 2018 onwards until he cancelled the holiday, but didnt tell CIGNA about it. I 
cant say CIGNA has unfairly  or unreasonably  refused the claim in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN60879402But CIDRA is relevant.  CIGNA has said it wouldnt have renewed the policy  had it known the 
true position,  and has offered to refund the premium with interest at 8% simple interest a 
year (minus any deductions for tax, for which a certificate must be supplied to Mr C to allow  
him to reclaim  the tax if appropriate). This is fair and reasonable, and complies  with CIDRA, 
but the offer was only made because the investigator pointed out CIDRA to the business.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-
NV should refund the premiums as offered and with interest as outlined  above to Mr C. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6087940