K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that the service she received from the TSB Bank Plc (TSB) in June 2018 
was poor,  and fell short  of that which she expected to receive. TSB had credited her account 
with funds in error,  and subsequently told her that the funds were hers.
background
On 1 June Mrs S visited a TSB branch with the intention of paying  £3,824.10 to her loan 
account and £3,309.41 to a credit card account with a different provider, whom I shall call 
H. A bank  error resulted  in the payment to H not being processed correctly, although the 
money did ultimately reach Mrs Ss credit card account.  
However, as the payment wasnt processed  correctly, TSB initiated a Credit Payment 
Refund (CPR) and refunded Mrs Ss account  in full on 11 June. That same day Mrs S sent a 
faster payment  to her credit card account with H, again for £3,309.41. But, on the 28 June H 
returned the original payment meaning that Mrs S had received a second refund of 
£3,309.41. Mrs S contacted TSB but was told the funds were hers, and so on the 29 June 
she transferred £3,309  to an ISA account.  
In November, TSB realised their error  and contacted  Mrs S advising her that they would be 
recalling the refunded money in 13 days time. Mrs S withdrew £2,600 in cash from the ISA 
and deposited  it with the TSB by way of repayment.  TSB put the money back  into Mrs Ss 
account, but the following  day she transferred £2,000 out of that account  to an account  in 
her husbands  name. So, TSB reclaimed £1,000 from Mrs Ss account on the 24 December 
and a further £900 on the 28 December leaving a balance of £1,409.41 owing. 
Mrs S then brought  a complaint to this service  and an adjudicator looked into it. He thought  
TSB was right to demand the repayment  of the remaining amount, but that they should allow 
Mrs S a reasonable  amount  of time to repay  it. He also thought  that because a bank error 
had led to this whole  issue arising,  with Mrs S suffering some inconvenience, TSB ought  to 
compensate her. He suggested  £150  would be reasonable. TSB disagreed with that view 
and so the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My decisions are based on the evidence  
in front of me. Where  such  evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive  or contradictory, I am bound 
to reach  a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider what  is more  
likely to have happened in light of that evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. It is quite  
clear that there was an initial  error  by TSB and this has caused confusion. It is also very 
clear that Mrs S received two refunds when she was only entitled to one. I am satisfied 
therefore that she has received money to which she is not entitled.
I think on balance, that when Mrs S received the second refund she would  have known that 
it was in fact an error. The first refund she had used to pay H the day she received it. Just 
over 2 weeks later she received the second refund for exactly  the same amount. I can 
accept her evidence  that she was told by an advisor  that the money was hers,  but I am 
Ref: DRN65753692afraid that I do not accept that it was reasonable of Mrs S to accept that advice at face value, 
when she would have  known she had already been reimbursed.
I do accept that Mrs S attempted to contact TSB on a number of occasions and that she also 
visited the branch  to try to resolve  the issue. On Mrs Ss case she has confirmed  that she 
tried to repay what she had left of the money  by depositing it with the branch but they paid it 
into her account. What is curious is that she then transferred  £2,000 of it to her husband. 
Having looked  at her statements for that period it is reasonable to assume that Mrs S would 
have known that the £2,600 credit  in her account was the money she had deposited with the 
bank earlier. 
I know our adjudicator thought it was unreasonable of TSB to have demanded repayment in 
a lump sum after all the time that had passed,  but I must disagree.  Mrs S placed  the refund 
into a savings account and I have seen  no evidence that those funds were then dissipated.  It 
was reasonable  therefore for the TSB to assume those funds were still intact. 
What I need to decide is whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mrs S. 
They could have  simply debited her account  and taken her into an overdraft but they did not. 
TSB have  been in communication with Mrs S and asked her to repay  the refund. I can see 
there has been some activity and there  were  promises  made  by Mrs S to repay as well. And 
I am also satisfied that Mrs S knew the money did not belong  to her and needed to be 
repaid. So whilst TSB did initially fall into error and have to some  extent  caused  the present  
problem, Mrs S has also been on notice that the monies she had were not hers and would 
require repayment.  The monies she received, and which  were  not hers,  were placed  into an 
ISA account and so had been preserved.
So I dont  think TSB has acted unfairly here.  They refunded Mrs S very quickly which  
allowed her to then make  payment to her credit card account,  and then reasonably 
requested repayment  of second refund paid in error, so Im not going to uphold this 
complaint. I know that Mrs S will be disappointed  by this, but I dont think that TSB have 
done anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank Plc. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mrs S to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 24 August 2019. 
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6575369