K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him an interest  only mortgage, which 
has now left him with a capital sum he cant repay at the end of the term.
background
In 2006, Mr M approached Barclays for advice about a mortgage.  He already had an interest  
only mortgage with another  lender. Barclays recommended he move  his mortgage to it, still 
on interest only terms. He also had a significant amount of unsecured  debt  credit  cards 
and loans  some of which was added to the mortgage  balance. His previous mortgage 
balance was £70,000; this rose to just over £123,000,  meaning  Mr M consolidated over 
£50,000 of his £80,000 unsecured debt.
Mr M has now reached the end of the term. Hes not been  able to repay the capital balance.  
Hes explored some other options,  such as re-mortgaging and equity release, but hasnt  
been able to repay. He complains that the mortgage was mis-sold and he should never have 
ended up in this position.
Our investigator didnt  think the mortgage had been mis-sold. Mr M didnt  agree  and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Since  our investigator set out his view,  Barclays 
has written to Mr M notifying him that it has instructed  solicitors  with a view to repossessing  
his property. As a result, I issued a provisional decision so I could deal with this new 
development before making a final decision. I said:
Ive looked carefully  at the documents from the time of the sale to try to establish 
exactly what Mr Ms circumstances were  at the time the mortgage was sold. The 
mortgage application records that Mr M was paying  £2,000 per month to his 
unsecured debt, as well as his mortgage payment of just under £400, at a time when 
his monthly income  was £3,000. After  the re-mortgage, his debt payments went  down 
to £650, and his mortgage payments went up to around £550 (the new mortgage was 
at a much  lower interest  rate). This meant  Mr Ms total payments towards  his debts 
fell from £2,400 per month (80% of his income) to £1,200 (40%  of his income). This 
significantly improved his immediate financial  position and achieved  the aim of 
lowering his outgoings.
While its true that this debt was converted to interest only terms, the consolidated 
debts were the credit cards, not the personal  loans  and Mr M was only paying the 
minimum, or just above, each month  on each card. This means that most of his 
payments were interest,  and the interest  rates would have been much higher than 
the very low base rate tracker that the new mortgage was charged at.
The mortgage term was timed to end at what Mr M then planned to be his retirement 
age, 70. Given  the nature  of his self-employment, I think that was plausible  as was 
the plan, once hed got his finances back on track, that he would use additional  
profits to overpay and reduce the balance. As the mortgage was on a lifetime tracker 
rate, there was no charge  for making overpayments.  
Overall, given what was recorded  of his circumstances at the time, I dont think the 
mortgage was mis-sold.  Its clear  Mr M was trying hard to keep on top of his debts 
but this was a struggle. Adding them to the mortgage meant his outgoings became 
more sustainable.  The alternatives  such as bankruptcy  or an arrangement with his 
Ref: DRN61168792creditors  would have  impacted his ability to continue with his self-employed 
business, the profits from which were the repayment  strategy for his mortgage even 
before the Barclays re-mortgage. I think that at the time he took advice from Barclays 
Mr M was in a difficult position.  The re-mortgage helped  him out of those difficulties 
and I dont think it was mis-sold.
However, for whatever reason Mr M didnt make  the overpayments he planned. He 
now accepts he buried  his head  in the sand  somewhat,  and wasnt able to pay the 
mortgage back at the end of the term.
I can see that there were  regular discussions between Mr M and Barclays  in the run 
up to the end of the term. Mr M was exploring  other  options. Unfortunately,  equity 
release wasnt possible  because of the loan to value. And he wasnt  able to take out 
a new mortgage  with another lender either.  
These discussions come to an end around the end of the term itself. Barclays  made  
clear it had no more options  to offer.  It didnt think converting to a repayment 
mortgage would be affordable - based  on Mr Ms most  recent income, it would take 
20 years  to repay at an affordable level.
Since these  discussions,  the term has ended, and Mr M then made his complaint to 
us. Hes been waiting  for the outcome of this complaint.  And, very sadly,  while  the 
complaint has been ongoing his wife has been ill and then passed away  meaning 
his focus hasnt been on his mortgage  commitments. I hope he will accept  my 
condolences on his loss. It may well be that Barclays  doesnt know  about  this and 
didnt take it into account when it issued  the recent repossession threat.
Ive explained  why the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. And, that being the case,  it does 
need to be repaid  as Mr M now acknowledges. But while  Barclays  is entitled to 
expect that to happen, it still has to treat Mr M fairly  and explore all the options for 
how that can be done, treating repossession as a last resort.
I think before  the term end, Barclays was doing  that and Mr M was keeping it up to 
date. Very understandably,  Mr Ms focus has been  elsewhere more recently. But 
even so, its disappointing that Barclays moved  to this stage before his complaint was 
resolved.
There may still be options open to Mr M  for example, if equity release isnt feasible, 
he may be able to explore a retirement  interest  only mortgage. And if all else fails, he 
now accepts hell have  to sell the property. I think its fair thats  done  voluntarily 
rather than by repossession  if possible.
In all the circumstances, I think the fair thing for Barclays to do now is to withdraw its 
threat of possession proceedings and allow Mr M three months to explore his 
options. He should seek independent financial advice about his prospects of re-
mortgaging with a retirement interest  only mortgage  or equity  release,  and also 
prepare the property for sale. 
If, by the end of three months,  Mr M can show Barclays he has a mortgage offer, or 
positive advice and an application in progress, Barclays should allow further  time for 
the application to go through. 
Ref: DRN61168793And if Mr M isnt able to raise finance  elsewhere  but can show Barclays that hes put 
his house on the market,  then Barclays should allow further reasonable time for a 
sale to go through   and Mr M will need  to allow Barclays to talk to his estate agent  
directly to reassure itself that everything is being done.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  Barclays stressed that although the term has 
ended, Mr M needs to continue to make payments to the mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  what  I said in 
my provisional decision. I havent changed  my mind, and I note both parties accept what  I 
suggested as a fair way forward. But Barclays is right; Mr M does need to continue  to make 
the monthly interest payments  even though the term has now ended   and if he can afford to 
pay more to reduce  the capital, he should  consider  doing so. He will also need to keep in 
touch with Barclays to discuss  his progress with finding alternative options. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I think a fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint is that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Withdraw the recent threat of possession  proceedings without charging the costs  if 
any  to Mr M;
Allow Mr M three months from the date we tell it he has accepted  my final decision, if 
he does, for Mr M to explore his options; and
Either:
oIf by the end of that three  months  Mr M has an offer or application  in progress 
to re-finance,  allow  Mr M a reasonable time for the application to complete; or
oIf by the end of that three  months  Mr M has placed his house on the market 
for sale, allow a reasonable time for marketing and sale, provided Mr M gives  
his consent if asked for Barclays  to liaise directly with his nominated estate 
agent.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6116879