K821x#15complaint
Ms F says Provident Personal Credit Limited  trading as Satsuma irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three loans Satsuma provided to Ms F between  October  2014  and 
September 2017. Ms Fs borrowing history  is set out on the table below as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 09/10/2014 12/01/2015 13 weeks £300.00 £140.01
2 05/06/2015 30/09/2015 21 weeks £600.00 £196.17
3 14/09/2017 03/11/2017 12 months £1,000.00 £166.00
Ms F says that insufficient checks were carried out and Satsuma did not verify her 
outgoings. She has told us that the existence  of other short-term loans should have alerted 
Satsuma to the possibility that she was dependent on short-term credit.  She also says her 
repeat borrowing should have led Satsuma  to carry out further checks  to assess  the 
accuracy of her information.  In lending to Ms F this contributed  to her debt spiral.
In its final response Satsuma said it had carried out checks on each of Ms Fs loans  and it 
was confident that well-informed  and responsible lending  decisions were made. It said it was 
unable to uphold  her complaint.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Fs complaint and thought  loan 3 shouldnt have been given. 
Satsuma didnt respond and as the parties  havent reached agreement  the complaint was 
passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN61762812the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Ms F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Fs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Ms Fs 
complaint about  loan 3. I will explain why.
Early on in the relationship I think Satsuma did proportionate checks.  Ms F had declared her 
income as £4000 and her expenditure  as £2300 for each  loan and there was a gap of 
around five months  between repayment of loan 1 and when Ms F borrowed loan 2. Looking  
at the credit  file and the checks Satsuma carried out, I dont think Satsuma would have been 
alerted to the fact that these loan repayments  were  unaffordable or unsustainable.
Satsuma gave Ms F loan 3 over two years  after loan 2 had been  repaid so I think its fair to 
say this started a new chain of borrowing. And again, I would  have expected Satsuma to 
carry out proportionate checks.  I think it did the same checks as it had done  for loans 1 and 
2. But in this case  I think from its own checks it more likely would have been alerted to the 
fact that Ms F might have been having  problems managing her money. I say this because 
from what I have seen  Satsuma adjusted Ms Fs own declared expenditure to leave her with 
a disposable income of £259.98. After repaying  her monthly repayment for loan 3 Ms F 
would have been left with £93.98 each month from which to meet  any other unusual or 
unexpected expenditure  - for a period of 12 months. I dont think this likely left her with 
enough disposable income  in case she had some unforeseen or emergency expenses  over 
the term of 12 months in which  she had to make her repayments.
Ive explained  above that although a loan may appear affordable  on a pounds  and pence  
basis it doesnt necessarily mean  that a consumer can afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
The regulations in place at the time provided guidance about what  sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time, while meeting other  reasonable 
Ref: DRN61762813commitments and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments, over the life of the 
agreement, and out of income  or savings. 
As Satsuma  obtained this information, I dont think it was reasonable for it to conclude that 
Ms F was going to be able to sustainably repay loan 3 given how little money  shed be left 
with each month for twelve  months.
I can also see from Satsumas own checks it would have likely been  aware  that when Ms F 
took out loan 3 she also had four other  accounts showing to be in arrears.  All in all I think  
taking what Satsuma knew about Ms Fs circumstances  when  she borrowed loan 3 it should  
have been alerted to the fact that Ms F was likely having problems managing  her money  and 
the repayments were  unsustainable.
I can see Ms F repaid  this loan early but just because Ms F did go on to repay the loan 
successfully doesnt  mean she did so from sustainable sources. And if she had to borrow 
from elsewhere to meet  her repayments   which given  the figures shed declared would 
suggest was more than likely  that wasnt sustainable.
In these circumstances I'm not persuaded that Satsuma acted responsibly  when  it provided  
loan 3 to Ms F.
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 3 and Satsuma should  put things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms F paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Ms Fs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Ms F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Fs complaint. Provident Personal  
Credit Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6176281