K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains Santander UK Plc misled her over her student bank account when she told 
it she was taking a year out from university.
background
Mrs M tells us she opened a student bank account in September 2013 with an interest free 
overdraft of £1,500.  In mid 2015  she spoke to a staff member at her local branch because 
shed decided to take a year out of university. She said the bank told her the account  would  
continue as normal until the end of the four year term. In September 2016 she returned to 
university but in December of that year she received  a letter from a debt collection agency 
asking her to repay the £1,629.69 balance on her account. Throughout  2017  she received a 
number of letters from three different debt collection agencies. She responded to those 
letters because she couldnt understand what had happened. Each  time she says she was 
told that Santander would be contacted for an explanation. Mrs M says she then moved to 
another address and forgot to update the most recent debt collection agency. She was next 
contacted in December 2018 and the debt collection agency said it would speak to 
Santander. In January  2019 Santander  wrote to her saying it didnt agree itd done anything 
wrong.
Santander said it didnt  have any record of her visiting  her local branch in 2015. It said from 
January 2016  to sent letters and SMS messages to her telling her she wasnt complying with 
the terms and conditions of her account. When it didnt get any response it defaulted her 
account in October  2016.
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  had done  anything wrong. He said there  was nothing 
in Santanders  records to indicate  she had visited the branch. And he thought itd made 
reasonable attempts to contact her before defaulting  her account. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with this. She said there  wouldnt have been any record  of her going 
into the local branch  because  she spoke  to a member of staff at the front of the house. She 
said she told the debt collection agencies that once  she was aware of the reasoning behind 
Santander defaulting her account she would be happy to pay what she owed. If Santander 
had provided this information she would  have made  a reasonable payment. Instead both the 
default and the debt have  remained  on her credit file for longer  than they needed to and has 
impacted on her credit score.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms complaint can be split into three sections. The first is about  her visit to the local 
branch in 2015. She says she was told that her year out of university  wouldnt affect her 
account. Santander says there isnt any record of her visit. Where  there  is conflicting 
evidence as there is here I have to make my decision  based on what  I think  might  
reasonably have happened. Because Santander  doesnt  have  a record  of such  a visit then,  
as Mrs M says,  she must  have made  an informal enquiry at the counter. In those 
circumstances it doesnt seem likely that a member of the counter staff wouldve given her 
advice contrary to the terms and conditions of her account. And if this had been more than 
just an informal enquiry I think a note wouldve  been  made  on her account which would have 
Ref: DRN64633622left a record. So although Mrs M says she was misled by the member of staff I dont have 
sufficient evidence to come to that conclusion. 
The second  is about communication from Santander. Mrs M says she was first aware  there 
was a problem  with her account at the end of December 2016. But I can see from the 
beginning of 2016 Santander  wrote  to her regularly about concerns over her overdraft. It 
wrote to the address Mrs M had given  it in September  2014. Mrs M told us she moved  from 
that address in August  2015 but she didnt  think it was necessary to give Santander her new 
address. She moved again in January 2016  but it wasnt  until February 2017 that Santander 
had this address  from a third party. So I cant find it was at fault for sending correspondence  
to Mrs M at an address  where she no longer lived. Mrs M says shed arranged for her letters  
to be forwarded  to her but nothing came from Santander. Looking at its records  Im satisfied 
it sent those letters to the last address it had on its system. So I cant  fairly  find its 
responsible for the breakdown in Mrs Ms arrangements  for forwarding her post. 
The third is about  the impact on her credit record of Santanders delay in answering  her 
request for an explanation. Mrs M says if itd responded when she first asked why her 
account had been defaulted she wouldve  made arrangements to pay back what  she owed. 
In April 2017 Santander wrote to her showing the balance outstanding. It told her to contact it 
to try and resolve any problem she had. Mrs M says she did that. But there  isnt any trace in 
Santanders records of any such contact. There is a record of Santander responding to a 
request for an explanation from a debt collection agency towards the end of 2017. But I cant  
find Santander at fault if that explanation  wasnt passed on to Mrs M by the agency.  
I know Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision  but for all those reasons I dont think  
Santander has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6463362