K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs V are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance PLC declined  their claim 
under their home emergency  cover.
background
In 2014 Mr S and Mrs V made  a claim under their home emergency  policy  because their 
boiler had broken down. RSA said the boiler was beyond economic repair  (BER) and made 
a payment of £500 towards a replacement boiler.  
Instead of putting  the money  towards a new boiler,  Mr S and Mrs V had the existing boiler  
repaired. Then, in December 2018,  they made  a further claim because the boiler had broken 
down again. RSA arranged for an engineer to attend to inspect the boiler. The engineer said 
that parts which were  not supported had been  fitted  poorly and because of this, and the fact 
the boiler hadnt been replaced following  the claim in 2014,  RSA declined the claim.
Mr S and Mrs V complained to RSA. They were  unhappy  that it had initially  said it would 
consider covering the costs of the repairs, only to decline their claim. They said it was 
responsible for them having no heating and hot water and that it should refund the premiums  
theyd paid since 2014, as they theyd been paying for insurance  which they wouldnt have 
been able to claim on.
RSA said it had acted  under  the assumption  that the boiler had been replaced in 2014, and 
that because Mr S and Mrs V had decided not to replace it, it wasnt responsible  for the time 
theyd been without heating and hot water. It also said the policy covered more than just the 
boiler, and, had it been replaced in 2014,  the new boiler wouldve been covered. So it didnt  
think it should refund any premiums.
Unhappy with RSAs  response,  Mr S and Mrs V referred their complaint to our service, but 
our investigator didnt uphold it. He was satisfied that as the boiler was deemed  BER in 
2014, it had reached  the end of its working life. RSA had paid up to the policy limit for a 
replacement boiler  and he thought it was clear that any future issues wouldnt be covered in 
the event the boiler wasnt replaced.
Regarding the premiums  Mr S and Mrs V had paid, our investigator  was satisfied the policy  
provided cover for more than just the boiler, and that Mr S and Mrs V could still have 
benefitted if something had gone wrong with another product.
Mr S and Mrs V didnt agree with the investigator and so the case  has been passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion,  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
Following a claim in 2014, Mr S and Mrs Vs boiler was declared  BER and RSA paid them 
£500 to put towards a replacement boiler.  But Mr S and Mrs V chose  not to do this, instead  
paying for the existing boiler to be repaired. 
Ref: DRN66590522The policy doesnt  provide cover for any system, equipment or facility  having reached the 
end of its expected working life, and RSA has declined the current claim on the basis  that 
the boiler had previously  been deemed  BER. I accept the boiler  was repaired and that it did 
function for some time following the 2014 claim, but BER isnt the same  as beyond  repair  
and it did eventually break down again.  Consequently, Im not satisfied Mr S and Mrs V have 
shown that RSAs conclusion that the boiler  was BER in 2014 was unreasonable  and Im 
satisfied its decision to decline  the claim based  on the fact it had previously reached the end 
of its working life was fair. 
Mr S and Mrs V are unhappy that RSA initially told them  it would consider the claim. But I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for RSA to have said this, given it didnt know the boiler 
hadnt been replaced following the previous claim.  RSA never actually said the claim would 
be covered, and its standard practice  for insurers to investigate claims before deciding  
whether or not to cover  claims. 
It took RSA a little over two weeks to consider and decline the claim. During that time it sent 
out engineers,  invited  Mr S and Mrs V to provide repair quotes and offered alternative 
accommodation. Taking all that into account, Im satisfied RSA did what  it could to consider  
the claim promptly and that its handling  of the claim was reasonable.
Regarding the premiums  Mr S and Mrs V paid since 2014, the policy  also provided 
emergency cover for other items such as locks, doors, windows, plumbing, drainage,  
electricity supply and damage  to the roof. So Im satisfied they couldve benefitted from the 
policy, even though claim for the boiler  was ultimately excluded. So I dont think RSA needs  
to refund the premiums they paid.
Overall, Im satisfied RSAs handling of the claim was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr S and Mrs Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6659052