K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent money  to her that she couldnt  afford  to 
repay without taking out further borrowing.
background
Based on the information provided, Ms C was provided with nine loans  by Uncle  Buck 
between February 2015  and September  2016. These were a mix of payday and instalment 
loans.
loan date amount
1 5 Feb 2015 £250
2 1 Apr 2015 £400
3 28 Apr 2015 £200
4 11 Jun 2015 £250
5 20 Aug 2015 £1,000
6 20 Nov 2016 £1,000
7 10 Mar 2016 £600
8 1 Jul 2016 £500
9 22 Sep 2016 £900
Ms C says that at the time of the loans  she was experiencing financial difficulty. She says 
because of the loan repayments  she had to borrow to pay her normal  living  expenses. Ms C 
says she was borrowing  from multiple lenders and that the loans were  unaffordable.
Ms C also says that her credit file would have shown her financial  issues.
Uncle Buck  says that before providing  each loan it carried out a credit check which  
confirmed the monthly  income Ms C had provided was accurate. It also asked for details of 
Ms Cs monthly expenditure. It says based on the information at the time of application the 
loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. He said he hadnt seen enough to say that 
loans one to four shouldnt have been  provided.  But he thought  that by loan five, 
proportionate checks would have shown Ms C was having issues  managing her money. He 
then said that by loan six Ms Cs overall pattern of borrowing  suggested she had become 
persistently reliant  on short-term loans.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint from loan five onwards and recommended that the 
interest and charges on these loans be refunded (along with interest)  and that amendments 
were made to Ms Cs credit file.
Uncle Buck  didnt accept  our adjudicators  view.  It said that when Ms C applied  for her loan 
in August 2015 it went through  her income  and expenditure with her. It says it asked Ms C 
what the loan was for and she said to pay off bills and on the request for further information 
she said her car needed repairs. It says that Ms C had an above average  income  and that 
her credit report  was not poor. It says there was no evidence to suggest Ms C wasnt 
managing her credit and that Ms C had sufficient disposable income to meet her 
repayments. It says that Ms C updated her income before the sixth loan and that she 
withdrew from this loan within six days.
Ref: DRN65017832Uncle Buck  says there was gap of over 100 days between when loan six was repaid and 
loan seven taken  out and a further  gap of 65 days between loan seven being repaid and 
loan eight being taken out. It didnt accept that Ms C was unable  to meet her normal living  
costs based given her loan repayments saying the information it had gathered  didnt show 
this.
Uncle Buck  offered to consider refunding interest and charges on Ms Cs ninth loan in order 
to resolve the complaint.  
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Ms C could  sustainably repay  her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ref: DRN65017833Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
I can see that checks were carried out in regard to Ms Cs income, expenses and 
creditworthiness. I think these were  reasonable in regard to the early  loans. Ms C wasnt  on 
a low income and the information provided  suggested the early loans were affordable. There  
was some negative information  on Ms Cs credit file however I do not think this was sufficient 
to require checks additional those that had already taken place to occur.
Based on the evidence  I have seen I agree with our adjudicator that there  isnt enough  to 
say loans one to four shouldnt have been  provided.
Loan five was for a much  larger amount than the previous loans (£1,000). It was repayable  
over three monthly instalments of just over £500 each. Uncle Buck  says that before this loan 
was provided it discussed  it with Ms C and checked it was affordable.  While I note these 
comments and appreciate the point about relying  on the information Ms C provided, I think  
that Uncle Buck should have been concerned  about Ms Cs financial situation at this time. I 
say this because  Ms C significantly increased the amount she was borrowing and the 
information provided shows she was also using a number  of other short  term loan providers 
at the time. In the call Uncle Buck says Ms C said she needed the money to pay bills and 
while I note she then said about her car it does suggest Ms C was struggling  to manage her 
money.
Based on the above, I dont think loan five was sustainable as Ms C appeared to be 
borrowing to repay  previous loans and so I uphold this complaint in regard  to this loan.
By loan six Ms Cs overall  pattern of borrowing suggested she had become persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. Ms C had taken six loans in nine months, and the amounts she 
was borrowing had increased. I note the comments made in regard to the gaps in the 
borrowing however  although there were some gaps  between  Ms C repaying  a loan and 
asking to borrow again, I don't think it would have been reasonable for Uncle  Buck to 
conclude these were  any indication that Ms C's finances had moved on from whatever 
situation had required her previous loans.
In my view, the pattern  of lending itself shows that the loans from loan six were  
unsustainable.
Overall, I dont  think that loans five to nine should have been provided.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  five to nine. Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP should:
refund  all interest and charges that Ms C paid on the loans  from five onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Ms C's credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six means  any information recorded about  them  
is adverse. So all entries about  loan six onwards should  be removed  from Ms C's 
credit file.
Ref: DRN65017834*HMRC requires  Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. If Ms C asks you for a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off, this should  be provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6501783