K821x#15Complaint
Miss W complains about her executor account held with National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
Background
In 2017, Miss W opened an executor account  after the passing of her father. She 
complained to NatWest,  as she says she had credits to the account  returned. She has also 
raised concerns  about the security  of the money in the account after some family issues.  
NatWest looked  into the complaint and agreed it should be upheld. It said that although no 
money should be allowed to leave the account, credits should be allowed to be paid in  and 
this was an error on its part. NatWest fixed the problem by adding  a note to the account to 
explain that credits can now enter  the account. It went  on to say that Miss W shouldnt have 
any concerns with the security of the money. 
Miss W remained unhappy,  so she brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and agreed  it should be upheld, but she also found that Miss W 
should be paid £100 compensation for the trouble and upset the error  had caused.  
NatWest agreed with the investigators view and the recommendation  to pay £100. Miss W 
however didnt agree that the payment was enough to compensate her. 
As she didnt agree  with the amount, the complaint has been passed  to me to issue  a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have admitted  it made an error when it didnt  put an exceptions note on Miss Ws 
account and have offered to compensate her for this  so I wont  be investigating  this aspect again. 
What I will be looking into is whether  the amount the investigator has recommended, and 
NatWest have agreed to pay, is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear Miss W is going through a difficult time, and Im sorry to hear of the loss of her 
father. I can see that any internal issues  between  family members  is being dealt with by 
other organisations and services, and it would  be inappropriate for me to comment  on these 
as part of my decision. 
When looking into the award for this complaint, Ive looked at the detriment its caused and 
also the actions  taken by NatWest once  it was notified of the error.
I can see once Miss W made NatWest aware of the issue of credits being  returned on the 
account, it put a fix in place  and Im unaware of any further problems  once this was done. 
So Im satisfied NatWest dealt with the issue at the earliest opportunity.
Miss W hasnt highlighted that the returned credits into the account caused any further  
losses. So I dont find any additional compensation  is due here.  
Ref: DRN67082552Miss W has said that she is unable to make payments from the executors account. NatWest 
have explained  that as a Grant  of Representation hasnt been provided,  the account  can 
only be used under a restricted function. This includes not being able to make outgoing 
payments from the account. If Miss W wants to add this feature, she can provide this 
document to NatWest.  
Im aware of the timing of the error and how strongly  Miss W feels about  this complaint  and 
that Miss W shouldnt have needed  to raise this with NatWest in the first place. Having said 
that and taking everything into account  from both parties, Im satisfied that the £100 fairly  
compensates Miss W for the trouble and upset the error caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  National Westminster  Bank Plc 
to pay Miss W £100 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6708255