K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold her payment protection insurance  
when she took out a credit card in 2003.
background
Mrs T applied for her credit card by completing  a form in 2003.  She didnt apply for the PPI 
at that time. She took out the PPI when she contacted Nationwide  to activate her card.
The policy cost £0.60 per £100  of the balance outstanding on Mrs Ts credit card. It would 
have paid 10% of that balance for up to 12 months  for any one claim in the event she 
couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs T disagreed with this view 
and asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will explain why.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the credit card application form Mrs T completed when 
she applied  for her credit card. At that time she crossed the box to apply for card protection 
but didnt choose the PPI. It was added  over the telephone when she later called Nationwide  
to activate her card.
Nationwide cant provide me with a call recording.  Thats not unusual given how long ago 
since the sale took place, but it has referred  us to a script that would have been used. I cant 
say how closely the script  would have been  followed but I think its more likely the 
representative gave  her a choice  about  whether or not to take out the PPI.
The PPI would have  appeared  on her credit card statements - Mrs T has said she was 
aware of the PPI but thought she had to take it out to get her credit  card. Shes also told us 
that she thought  it was card protection she was taking out not PPI which  was mistakenly  
marked on the records as PPI. I dont doubt Mrs T has given me her honest  recollection and 
its understandable if she cant remember the exact details of the sale now after so long. But 
these two explanations arent quite consistent  with each  other.  I can see Mrs T didnt apply  
for PPI at the time she applied  for her credit card on the application form. I can see though 
she did choose card protection  a different type of insurance to PPI. So I think  she likely  
knew she didnt have  to take out PPI in order to secure her credit  card.  And the entries  are 
set out differently on the statements - one entry refers says card  protect  tel and one entry  
appears as payment protection insurance  premium.  It could be the representative told her 
over the telephone it would be a good  idea to take out the insurance and told her about the 
benefits of it but thats different to saying she had to take it out. So I think  its more likely she 
knew she had both types of insurance. Overall, I think on balance  Mrs T more  likely chose 
the PPI knowing  she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
Ref: DRN66144902And Ive thought about what she has said about  being pressured. Pressure is subjective,  so 
when one person  feels  pressure another  may not. This sale happened  a long time ago and 
Mrs T hasnt  given  me any detail about why she felt pressured into taking out the PPI. So I 
cant uphold her complaint about  this point.
Nationwide didnt make  a tailored recommendation for the policy. That meant it didnt need 
to take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her circumstances. But it still had to 
give Mrs T clear  enough information  to make sure she could decide for herself whether or 
not she wanted the PPI. 
Mrs T says that the policy costs and its benefits  werent explained to her. And as Nationwide 
doesnt have a call recording  available, I cant say exactly  what  information Nationwide gave 
to Mrs T over the phone when she called to activate her card. So its possible not all the 
information was as clear  as it could have been. But thats not enough to uphold her 
complaint. I next need to think whether if Mrs T had clearer or better information she would  
have changed  her mind  and not bought the policy.
I cant say that clearer  information  would have  put her off buying the PPI. I say this because 
clearer information would have shown her that she was eligible  for the insurance.  And Mrs T 
has told us she was in good health and she was working and didnt  have any unusual 
employment circumstances so I dont think shed have been affected by any of the main  
limitations and exclusions  on the policy which might have made it more difficult  to make a 
claim. 
As the PPI wasnt recommended  to her, Nationwide  didnt  have to check her circumstances - 
it would  have been up to Mrs T to decide whether or not she wanted  the PPI. Ive still 
thought about what Mrs T has told us about  her work benefits which amounted  to six 
months full sick pay followed by six months  half sick pay. Shes also told us she had 
savings and her husband  was in full time employment. And I can see she worked  in her role 
for a long time  over 12 years. But the cost of this policy  was £0.60 for every £100  
outstanding, less than some  of the comparative polices available  at that time. It would have  
paid out for longer than her full sick pay from work lasted and in addition  to it. And it would 
have meant  that any savings she had could have been left intact  or used for other  essential 
or important  living  expenses.
I appreciate her husband would have wanted to help, and Mrs T felt secure  in her job. But if 
Mrs T lost her job (job circumstances can change)  or couldnt work then their household  
income would  have been reduced so there were no guarantees that her husband could have 
helped as and when it was needed.  Insurance is in place to protect  an unexpected event 
and the PPI might still have come in useful if things  went wrong.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable when she took it out.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mrs T, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN66144903To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken everything Mrs T has said including what shes said about other complaints being 
upheld. But these  points  dont change my conclusion. 
Each case is looked at in light of its own individual circumstances. What applies in one case 
may not be applicable in another. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6614490