K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Arval  UK Limited  charged him for damages to a car at the end of his 
hire agreement.
background
Mr B signed  a three year car hire agreement with Arval in February  2016. When he returned 
the car at the end of the contract, it was inspected  and three  areas of damage  were found:
The front left tyre had uneven tyre tread.
The front left passenger door was dented.
The front bumper was scratched.
Mr B signed  to say that he didnt agree with the inspection  conclusions, but shortly 
afterwards he received a letter asking him to pay £240.00.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the charges were in line with the agreed  terms and conditions and that the damage was 
outside of the British  Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines for fair 
wear and tear.
Mr B didnt agree saying,  in summary, that:
The BVRLA  acts in the interest of leasing companies and its guidelines  are unfair.  The 
terms have been  imposed upon him and are therefore unfair.
Wear and tear should be factored into the cost of the contract  and a court  of law would 
require Arval to prove  the pecuniary loss of the damages it is seeking to recover.
The dent in the door does not exist.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the hire contract say:
At the end of the Contract Term  (or on early termination of this Agreement  or late return  of 
the Vehicle) the Hirer will make the Vehicle  available for collection. A representative on 
behalf of ARVAL  will complete an initial report  on the mechanical and bodywork condition  of 
the Vehicle including  its milometer reading. The Hirer  or its representative  will sign a copy  of 
that report upon agreement of its content  ARVAL shall invoice the Hirer for the cost of 
repairs (whether or not carried out) to a Vehicle returned  to ARVAL that is subject to damage 
which, in accordance with the BVRLA  Fair Wear and Tear Guide for the Contract  Hire 
Industry, would constitute unfair  wear  and tear and/or for any diminution  of the value of the 
Vehicle resulting from a previous repair to the Vehicle.
Ref: DRN62603472An inspection was carried  out in Mr Bs presence.  He didnt agree with its conclusions, but 
he didnt arrange  for his own inspection.  The inspector took photographs of the damage and, 
having considered these,  Im satisfied that Mr B hasnt been unfairly charged.  I say this 
because:
The photo of the front left tyre shows evidence of uneven wear.  Im satisfied this is 
outside of the BVRLAs  fair wear and tear guidelines.
The photo of the front passenger door shows a dent of more  than 10mm in diameter. 
This is outside of the BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidelines.
The photo of the scratch shows that it is more  than 25mm which  is outside  of the 
BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidelines.
Its not clear whether  Mr B was given  the opportunity to arrange his own inspection of the 
car. But Im satisfied that the photos evidence there  was damage to the car, so another  
report would  most likely have come to the same conclusion.
The BVRLA guidelines are accepted industry  guidelines  and its reasonable that Arval  used  
these guidelines to assess the car when it was returned. And, in signing the hire agreement, 
Mr B also agreed to pay for any damage  which was outside  of these fair wear and tear 
guidelines.
So overall I find that Arval has not acted unfairly  in asking Mr B to pay £240 for the damage 
to the car.
Mr B has made several comments about  what the outcome of his complaint might be if it 
was decided by a court of law. We are an informal dispute resolution  service and I have 
come to a conclusion which I think is fair and reasonable having considered  all of the 
evidence. Mr B is free to pursue his complaint through the courts  if he chooses not to accept 
my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6260347