K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited has failed to remove  a default  from 
his credit file after hed settled a debt.  He wants the default removed.
background
Mr H tells us that he found out that a default had been recorded on his credit  file in relation to 
an account he believed  to have been fully repaid. He said he contacted Link and agreed to 
pay the outstanding balance. He said he was told that if he did so the default would be 
removed from his credit file. Mr H says he then paid the balance later on the same day as 
the phone  call - but Link has refused to remove the default.
Link issued a final response letter in October 2018.  In this it said it hadnt breached any of 
the guidelines that governed its business practices and wouldnt be removing the default. Its 
since supplied this service  with the full business  file but not with a recording of the phone  call 
to which  Mr H referred.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Mr H had 
been told that if the debt was repaid the default  would be removed. And - as there  was no 
evidence to the contrary and the payment had been made the same  day - she thought the 
default should now be removed.
Mr H agreed with this outcome but Link has failed to reply to the investigators view.  As its 
not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the frustration and disappointment experienced by Mr H at having  this 
default recorded on his credit file.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some 
of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities.
I think it will be helpful to give a brief summary regarding how the default arose.  It seems  to 
have resulted from a sequence of misunderstandings and coincidences.  I understand Mr H 
settled a finance agreement and paid a sum of over £8,000 to do so. Whilst he paid the 
settlement figure hed been quoted it seems this figure assumed the last monthly payment 
prior to settlement had been  made.  It seems  that this sum hadnt been  paid and various 
letters regarding this were  sent to Mr H. Unfortunately hed moved address and so it seems 
he did not receive these  letters. As a result of the balance of just over £240  remaining 
unpaid a default was applied to the account. Link was assigned  the debt in April 2018.
Ref: DRN60047522Upon learning  of the default Mr H contacted the credit reference agency to challenge  this 
entry and later contacted Link. I can see from Links records that there  were  a number of 
phone calls in June  2018. But the most relevant phone call took place on 2 July. The record  
of the call only indicates that Mr H wanted  to settle the account  - it doesnt refer to any other 
details of the conversation. But I can see Mr H settled the account  later the same day.
Without the recording its difficult to know whether Mr Hs understanding - that it had been 
agreed the default would be removed if he paid immediately - was correct. But the fact that 
he repaid the sum later that day certainly lends  support to his assertion. And whilst the notes 
of other  contacts lack detail Im satisfied that Mr H had discussed the circumstances in which 
the default arose.
This is relevant, as ordinarily  Id expect a borrower  to know what they owed and needed  to 
pay - even if they didnt  receive correspondence. But here I can understand how confusion 
arose. Mr H paid the figure quoted  on the Vehicle Settlement Quotation - so I think that he 
reasonably believed it to be settled and had no cause to think  otherwise. Whilst I cant  see 
he updated his address  to the previous lender - so didnt receive arrears or default  warning  
notices - as he reasonably thought  the account was settled he had no reason to do so. And 
given the settlement amount was over £8,000 - it seems unlikely he would not have made 
the additional payment had he been  aware it was due.
So I think its probable  that a business learning  of the circumstances of the default  might 
reasonably conclude that it would not be fair to maintain the entry on Mr Hs credit file. As 
Link has not provided a recording  of the call - or sought to contradict what  Mr H has said 
about the contents - Im entitled to conclude that its probable he was told the default  would 
be removed if he settled  the account.
So Im going to uphold the complaint and require Link to make arrangements for the default 
its recorded to be removed from Mr Hs credit file.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In order to settle the complaint Im requiring Link Financial Outsourcing Limited to make 
arrangements to remove the default  to which this complaint relates from Mr Hs credit files. 
The account  should be recorded as settled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6004752