K820x#14complaint
Miss Cs complaint is that Canada Square  Operations Limited  has not properly compensated 
her for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss C took out a credit card with Canada Square  in 2000. At the same time she was sold a 
PPI policy.
Miss C later complained about the sale of the PPI. Canada Square wrote  to Miss C in 2018.  
Although Canada Square didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint that the PPI had been mis-sold  it 
did pay her £289.03.  This was a refund for undisclosed commission.  
Miss C remained  unhappy  and asked this service  to step in.
Canada Square  then agreed to fully uphold Miss Cs complaint and to return her to the 
position shed  be in if the PPI had not been sold.
Canada Square  made Miss C an offer of a further  £539.49. Miss C remained unhappy. In 
particular she felt she had held two accounts  and Canada Square had only compensated her 
for the PPI it charged on one.
Our adjudicator thought Canada Square had fairly compensated Miss C. Miss C disagreed  
with the adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Canada Square  has agreed to uphold  the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I 
wont look into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Miss C. In this decision Ive looked at 
whether Canada Square has fairly compensated Miss C.
Having done so I think Canada Square  has fairly  compensated  Miss C and Ill explain why.
I think it would be helpful to explain our approach when we find that a PPI policy  has been 
mis-sold.
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
Ref: DRN61589282When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect Canada Square  to refund the 
PPI premiums and any credit card interest  or associated charges caused by the PPI. Wed 
also expect Canada Square to compensate the consumer for any periods where theyd been 
out of pocket as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
Canada Square  has shown us a copy of the calculations it used to make its offer to Miss C. 
It has also been able to show us copies of Miss Cs credit card statements.
I can see from the statements that Miss C was first charged a PPI premium  in January 2001  
which was the first statement that contained an outstanding balance. The PPI premiums 
stopped being charged in October 2001  So although Miss C held the credit  card account for 
some years, the PPI policy was only present on the account for a few months.
I can see Miss C was charged a total of £210.99  for PPI and this has been refunded by 
Canada Square.
Miss C was charged interest because of those premiums. And Canada Square has refunded 
this too.
Canada Square  has also added compensatory interest calculated  at 8% simple  for the time 
Miss C has been out of pocket.
So I can see Canada Square has calculated  the compensation in the way Id expect it to. 
And Im satisfied it puts Miss C in the financial position shed be in if the PPI hadnt  been  
sold to her.
Miss C feels Canada Square has only compensated her for one credit  card account when in 
fact she held two. Ive looked at the statements provided by Canada Square and I note the 
credit card number changed  between February  and March 2001. But the account  remained 
the same. So, although there  were  two credit card numbers,  there  was only ever one 
account and one policy. 
I note Canada Square initially gave Miss C a refund for undisclosed commission. It then 
deducted this from the total compensation it owed Miss C when it calculated  a full refund.
The compensation Canada Square paid Miss C in 2018 represented  a partial  refund  of the 
premiums she had paid.  So, when it later fully upheld the complaint and agreed to refund  all 
the premiums paid by Miss C it was fair for it to deduct  that part of the premiums that it had 
already refunded. If it didnt do this then Miss C would receive back  more  in PPI premiums  
than shed ever been  charged. And that wouldnt  be fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that Canada Square Operations  Limited has fairly  compensated Miss C 
for mis-selling her a PPI policy.  So, I make  no further awards against Canada  Square 
Operations Limited.
Ref: DRN61589283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6158928