K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the charges BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) asked 
him to pay to refurbish  a car at the end of its lease.
background
Mr F took receipt  of a used car in April 2015.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS and returned  the car at the end of its lease term in early 2019.  At 
the point of supply the car was about  two years  old and had already  completed about 18,000 
miles.
The car was inspected prior to return and the inspector noted  several  areas of damage.  
BMWFS said the contract they had with Mr F required him to pay for refurbishment of the 
damage and they therefore asked him to pay to restore the following areas  of damage:
1 front bumper scratches £106
2 LHF wheel alloy scratch £26
3 RHF wheel alloy scratch £26
4 LHF wing dented £114
5 LHR door paint chips £40
6 LH sill dented £114
7 bumper rear scratched £106
8 door pad RHR scuffed £29
9 RH sill scratch £106
11 door pad RHR scuffed £29
12 door RHF paint chips £40
13 door mirror  RHF insecure £26
14 RHF wing scratched £106
Mr F didnt  think  BMWFS were being reasonable. He disputed  all of the charges except for 
items 1 and 13. He said the charges of £868  were unreasonable  and represented about 
25% of the cars value.
BMWFS reviewed the charges but didnt think theyd been  unfairly  applied  so Mr F referred  
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the damage against  industry guidelines provided by the British  
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA). She thought  all of the damage was 
beyond what would  be considered normal wear and tear. She obtained a guide valuation  for 
the car and noted that it would have been expected to sell at auction  for between £4,397 and 
£4,790. BMWFS explained that it had actually sold for £3,600 so she noted that the £868  
charge they had applied  was likely to account  for the deterioration in the value of the car. 
She therefore didnt  think BMWFS had been unreasonable when applying the charges it 
had.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view. He was upset that BMWFS were unable to 
provide him with a copy of the receipt  for the sale of the car at auction  and he disputed the 
figure theyd  suggested they obtained for the car. So Mr F asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN65818722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr F so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The terms of Mr Fs finance agreement allowed BMWFS to charge him for any refurbishment 
work required to bring the car back  to a good  standard. 
They didnt have  to complete the work: they could, instead, opt to sell the car at auction and 
use the proceeds from the refurbishment  charge they levied to offset  the loss in value  and 
thats what they did.
The BVRLA set the industry guidelines about what should be considered fair wear  and tear 
when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease periods. So Ive reviewed the damage to 
the car that is evidenced in the inspection photographs. In all cases I agree with our 
investigators view that the damage would be considered beyond  normal  wear and tear and 
should be chargeable.
Ive also considered the sales price  BMWFS obtained at auction. I understand that Mr F 
disputes the value obtained  but dont think theres  a reason to suggest  BMWFS  have been 
dishonest in their statement of the facts.  They have suggested the car sold for £3,600 at 
auction and that would  suggest their refurbishment  charges were warranted in order  for them 
to realise the value  they would have  expected  to obtain  for the car if it was returned in the 
correct condition.
And, even  if that sales value is wrong,  BMWFS have a contractual  right to make  charges if 
the standard the car is returned  in is outside of the industry guidelines; in this case I think 
that has been the case and Im therefore  not asking them to take any further action.
Ref: DRN65818723my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6581872