K820x#14complaint
Mrs N says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs N bought the policy in March 1995  at the same time as taking  out a credit card.  It is not 
clear how Mrs N applied for the credit  card and PPI policy. In the documentation  initially 
submitted to us by those representing Mrs N, it was stated that the PPI was sold when she 
completed a postal application.  Barclays told us it could  not say whether the cover  was sold 
in branch or by post. In her latest correspondence,  Mrs N appears to suggest it was sold to 
her during  a meeting.  
In any event, at the relevant time, Mrs N was employed as a sales  assistant.  She told us she 
was entitled to at least  six months  full pay from her employer if she was off sick from work. It 
was initially stated that other than her sick pay, Mrs N had no other means of meeting her 
credit card repayments if she was out of work. In her most recent correspondence, Mrs N 
told us that she would have been able to rely on support from her family and friends  if 
necessary. It was also stated that Mrs N would have been entitled to redundancy pay, which  
was worth around two to three months salary. Additionally, Mrs N told us she would have 
been entitled to death in service benefit. 
I understand Mrs N was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
Barclays has been unable  to provide me with the precise policy document  in respect  of this 
complaint. I have seen  a summary of cover, dated from November 1995, which is 
consistent with the information set out on Mrs Ns application form. I am satisfied it most 
likely reflects the cover that was sold to Mrs N eight months earlier. With that in mind, it 
seems to me that the policy provided cover for life, accident, sickness  and unemployment   
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Ns credit card 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost 70p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.  
Barclays has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed in 2006.
Mrs Ns representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  Mrs 
Ns representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs N wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ns 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN66747762The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mrs N about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs N and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and 
The information Mrs N received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Those representing Mrs N disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. Mrs N also responded directly to our adjudicators 
view. In summary, she said she had only taken the credit card out because she was 
planning to travel abroad, and she did not want to take travellers cheques.  As I said above, 
she said she would not have needed PPI because she could have relied on support from 
family and friends.  She also had good benefits  from her employer. She was led to believe 
that if she did not sign up for the cover, her credit  card would be refused. In a further email, 
Mrs N said she was pressured  into taking  out the PPI. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ns. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ns complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
Ref: DRN66747763complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ns case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ns complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN66747764-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs N with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Mrs N sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs N, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs N suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs N and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs N know she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
As I said above, it is not clear to me how the PPI came to be sold. Mrs N was clear in her 
initial submissions that the cover  was sold by post and that PPI was included as part of a 
package with her credit  card. A postal sale is supported by Barclays to some  extent in that it 
says there  were no branch codes or markings on the application form. However,  Barclays  
was unable to give a definitive  view.  In her later correspondence, Mrs N said both that she 
was pressured  into taking the PPI cover out and that she was led to believe the card 
application would be refused if she didnt  buy PPI. On that basis,  Mrs N appears to suggest  
that she had personal  interaction with someone from Barclays, which  would indicate a 
branch sale. 
As it is not possible to determine whether PPI was sold by post or during a meeting in a 
branch, I have considered both possibilities in this decision.  
I have been provided with a copy of the application  form completed by Mrs N. If this policy 
was sold by post, then I think  she would have  been able to complete that form in her own 
time and at her own pace.  I can see that she would have been presented with two equally 
prominent boxes  to complete  one to mark if she wanted a PPI policy  and another  to mark if 
she did not. I can see that the box to request PPI has been completed. Looking at the way 
the application form is worded, I dont think Mrs N would  have  reasonably thought she had to 
take this cover for her credit card to be agreed. And I cant reasonably say that what  was 
written on the application  form amounted to pressure. 
I have also given careful thought to whether its likely Mrs N would have been given a choice 
about the PPI cover  if it had been sold in a meeting. After  considering all the evidence before 
me, I find that it is inconsistent. I say this because it was initially  submitted on behalf of Mrs 
N that PPI was presented as part of a package.  It is then unclear to me why Barclays  would 
have needed to pressure Mrs N or mislead  her into taking the cover out if it had already 
been included  as part of a package. It is also unclear as to why, despite voluminous 
submissions from those  representing Mrs N, the allegation of pressure appears not to have 
been raised initially to us or Barclays. 
Ref: DRN66747765I appreciate the PPI was sold more than 25 years  ago and it is difficult to recall  precisely  
what happened such a long time ago. I dont doubt what Mrs N told us is what she honestly 
recalls about the sale. But given the inconsistencies in the information provided, I cant 
reasonably find that the sale was conducted  in the manner Mrs N now recalls.  
I can see that the application  form appears  to have  been completed rather carefully  by Mrs N 
and the evidence does not suggest there was any input from Barclays  in doing  so. I think 
Mrs N would have seen  that she had a choice  about buying PPI from that application form. 
And if a Barclays representative  had presented  cover in a different way, I think  Mrs N would 
have queried it at the time. The evidence doesnt  suggest she did. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs N knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays said it advised Mrs N to buy the PPI policy. Mrs N and those representing her did 
not express a view.  
If the PPI was sold by post, then it is unlikely this was an advised sale because the 
application form does  not suggest  PPI was a tailored recommendation to Mrs N personally. 
However, I agree with Barclays  that if the cover was sold during a meeting, it should be 
treated as an advised sale.  Thats  because  Barclays would have most likely had some  
information about Mrs Ns financial circumstances, and she could reasonably have 
concluded that it was recommending cover after assessing its suitability. 
So in respect of providing advice, I will proceed on the presumption  that Barclays did advise  
Mrs N during a meeting  between the parties. This means Barclays had to advise Mrs N with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs N. There is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to 
the policy, which is unsurprising given how long ago the cover was sold.  The adviser most 
likely had some  limited  information about  Mrs Ns financial circumstances, but there  is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mrs N would have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
did not fully meet her needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest  Barclays  considered 
whether Mrs N had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Barclays did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs N given  her circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs N, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs N met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN66747766-I appreciate she does not agree,  but the evidence suggests Mrs N had a need for the 
policy. I say this because  the PPI would have lasted  for longer than Mrs Ns full sick 
pay and redundancy entitlement. I appreciate she told us she could have relied on 
family members for help if she ran into financial difficulties. But there is no guarantee 
that help would have been  available to Mrs N as and when she needed it.  On that 
basis, her ability meet  her credit card repayments may well have  been  put under 
strain if she was not working  for an extended period of time.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs N. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs N. I havent  
seen anything about Mrs Ns employment  or occupation which suggest it would be 
more difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. There  were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ns circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card balance.
-I appreciate that Mrs N would have  been entitled  to death in service  benefit. But this 
cover would have  only paid out in the unfortunate event of her death. It would not 
have covered her if she was off sick from work or if she lost her job. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mrs N sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Barclays was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs N was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs N would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser if the cover was sold during a meeting. The application form she 
signed also described the policy as a payment protection  plan  providing  cover against 
unemployment, accident, sickness and death,  which would have given her some  idea of 
what the policy was for even if it was sold by post. 
I am also satisfied Mrs N would have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much it cost before agreeing to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Barclays gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs N 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary Mrs 
N might  have been given during a meeting, I think its more  likely than not that she would 
have based her decision on the things  she was told, rather than on anything  she was given. 
And if the cover was sold by post, the application  form does not appear to set out the 
exclusions and limitations. 
Ref: DRN66747767Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mrs N, Im not persuaded 
Barclays did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mrs N. Im not persuaded that Barclays  gave Mrs N all of the 
information she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ns representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ns. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ns representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs N about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her.  
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ns representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs N has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Mrs N? To what extent did Mrs N 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs N. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs N 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs N 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Barclays done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Barclays took the steps it should have done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mrs N, Ive found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs N has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mrs N would have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Ref: DRN66747768Mrs N says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs N had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Barclays advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ns circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs N ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance   
this was set out on the application form. But, I accept that Barclays  didnt  make  clear the on-
going cost information. So while Mrs N didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought  
from the information she based her decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs N thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mrs N knew  about or which she asked about or for which  she had received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor in the 12 months  before the policy 
started; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs N 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs N be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs N pause for thought   and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs N from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ns circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. The evidence does not suggest she wouldve been 
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs N didnt have any pre-existing medical 
Ref: DRN66747769conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think  she had some  good reasons 
to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs N would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs N had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her 
job or any similar job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Ns 
circumstances, on balance, I still think she would  have  been interested in taking out the 
cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs N would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting, and I think it could have provided a useful  benefit  in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mrs Ns representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs N would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ns 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs N 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs N believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
Ref: DRN667477610represent fair compensation to put Mrs N in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mrs N compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs N thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mrs N, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1995 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ns representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Barclays negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs N and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs N in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6674776