K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that John  Lewis Financial  Services Limited (John Lewis)  are refusing to 
uphold his claim under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 (s75). He says the 
dating service he signed  up for was not as advertised and theres  been  a breach of contract.
background
In August  2017  Mr B signed up for a dating service and paid £67. He upgraded the service  
to VIP status shortly  afterwards and was promised his £67 back  if he did so. The VIP service 
cost £500 and he paid this and the initial £67 upfront using his John Lewis  credit card. But 
Mr B was disappointed with the service he received. He said hed been  told the VIP service  
was boutique and exclusive  and that VIP members  would  have access  to profiles that 
may not be visible to ordinary members. He says the candidates that were forwarded to him 
were unsuitable  and didnt match his profile.  
A month into his dating service contract he complained. At this point he said hed received 
eight or nine profiles: none of whom  were suitable. He said that all of these members  would  
have been visible to ordinary members and some were unsuitable. He didnt think the VIP 
service had been value for money  and he asked for a refund. But the dating  service didnt 
reply.
So he brought his complaint to John  Lewis  who he said, as the provider of credit,  were  
equally responsible  under s75. They considered whether a chargeback  would be possible 
but rejected this idea as they said the service Mr B had applied  for was clearly  available. And 
they also considered  whether a s75 claim could  succeed: if thered been a misrepresentation 
or a breach  of contract. But as Mr B had not provided his profile they couldnt  say the 
candidates that hed been  matched  with were unsuitable. They did agree to refund the £67 
which Mr B had paid to cancel his non VIP membership as they were satisfied thered been  
a promise to return it.
Mr B was still dissatisfied so he referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator 
took a look. He didnt think John Lewis had been unreasonable.  He reviewed the claims 
made by the dating agency  but whilst he understood Mr B hadnt been happy with the 
service theyd provided, he wasnt persuaded that theyd failed to provide the services theyd 
promised in the literature hed seen.  He didnt think promises had been made not to send 
ordinary member profiles and as hed not been provided with Mr Bs profile  he didnt think he 
was in a position to assess  whether the matches were accurate. So overall,  he thought John  
Lewis didnt need  to take any further action.
But Mr B disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B but I dont think John Lewis  have done  anything wrong here.  
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN67793092Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to recover the money paid either through a chargeback  or a section 75 claim.
section 75
This section  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says that a finance  provider  can be equally  
responsible for a breach  of contract  or a misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
I dont think the service was misrepresented and I dont think  theres  anything  to suggest the 
contract Mr B had reached  with the business has been breached.
The dating  service made  several claims in their literature and in the emails they provided to 
Mr B. Ive reviewed them all and broadly speaking they fit into the following categories:
theyd supply 2/3 candidate  profiles per week
a VIP consultant  would  be allocated  
the VIP consultant would be responsible  for contacting candidates  and he or she 
would update Mr B and arrange  conversations
the service would be 100% discreet
they would extensively search  and curate the finest matches
I can see that the business supplied the requisite amount of candidate profiles and that a 
VIP consultant was provided. Its clear the VIP consultant endeavoured to make  contact with 
the candidates Mr B showed interest  in and Ive seen nothing to suggest that the service  
wasnt discreet. The issue that seems most contentious is whether the matches were a good 
fit for Mr B: whether they were the finest  matches. 
Unfortunately; Ive not seen Mr Bs profile and Im therefore not able to distinguish how close  
a match  the profiles that were forwarded  to him were. But even if I had seen Mr Bs profile  I 
dont think this would have changed  my opinion because:
I can see Mr B made several requests  for the consultant to make  contact  with 
candidates that had been forwarded to him. So there is some evidence some  of the 
profiles were acceptable.
Some points of clarification may have  been difficult for the VIP consultant  to initially  
grasp. There was an element of learning. For example Ive seen reference to 
religious or cultural constraints that I think its conceivable the consultant  may not 
have initially understood.
I can understand that Mr B would not agree that the service  was acceptable as he wasnt 
able to find a suitable match and had to terminate his agreement. But this doesnt mean the 
service was not as sold and it doesnt  mean the business has broken its agreement with 
Mr B. Its simply not performed as well as Mr B would have liked it to and I therefore think  
John Lewis  were right to reject his s75 claim.
Ref: DRN67793093chargeback
The chargeback system's intended  to resolve  settlement  disputes  in situations where the 
bank might be able to do a chargeback as a merchant never provided the service. I can see 
John Lewis  considered a chargeback but that they didnt think  one could be successful.
Here the dating  service  was clearly provided.  It may not have  been  to the standard  Mr B 
wished for but its clear  candidates were supplied  and that Mr B had the services of a 
consultant who was prepared to make  arrangements on his behalf and provide 2 to 3 
candidates per week.  So I think John Lewis were right to decline the chargeback request as 
well and overall, I dont  think they need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6779309