K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC  blocked and then closed his account. He says 
this all caused him a great deal of trouble and upset  and he wants Barclays to pay him 
compensation.  
background
Mr G had a personal account  with Barclays. 
In August  2018,  just over £1,800 was credited to Mr Gs account  in seven separate 
transactions. In September  2018,  Barclays reviewed Mr Gs account. Whilst it carried  out its 
review Barclays  restricted  Mr Gs access to his account. 
On 10 September  2018, Barclays wrote to Mr G to let him know that following its review of 
his account it had decided to close his account  on 10 September 2018. It removed the 
remaining balance of Mr Gs account,  £1,178.36,  and asked Mr G to provide information 
about the origin of the funds. 
Mr G says he wasnt able to provide any paperwork as proof he was entitled to the remaining 
funds in his account. And hes explained that the money in his account came from sports 
bets placed on his behalf by associates, which he says happened  often. Following a further  
review Barclays  released the funds  to Mr G in March 2019.  
Mr G complained to Barclays that his account  had been blocked unfairly and this had caused 
him a great deal of anxiety and stress. In particular,  Mr G says Barclays  blocked his account 
three days before his wedding, which meant  Mr G wasnt able to pay suppliers for his 
wedding day. And he and his wife werent  able to go on their honeymoon because  he was in 
financial  limbo. In addition, Mr G says hes wasted hours on the phone to Barclays  trying to 
get things sorted out. And hes had many sleepless nights worrying  about everything. 
Mr G says Barclays havent provided a satisfactory explanation why it blocked his account. 
And it didnt  contact him when it promised or respond to his emails. Mr G has said that as a 
direct result of Barclays blocking his account his credit file has been destroyed  and hes 
contemplated suicide.  He wants Barclays to pay him £150,000 compensation to reflect  how 
hes been affected. 
In response Barclays said it had acted in line with its legal and regulatory  obligations when  it 
blocked Mr Gs account. However, it accepted that Mr G hadnt received his account closure 
letter until after it had closed his account. And its review had taken 2 days  longer than it 
should have. It offered  Mr G £200 compensation for the delay. And because Mr G wouldnt 
have had the opportunity to sort out a new account  before hes account had closed. Mr G 
disagreed. So he brought  his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. He thought Barclays  did everything they 
needed to. The investigator explained  Barclays werent required to provide their reasons for 
the block and closure  of the account. And had done enough put things  right. Barclays 
accepted what  our investigator  said but Mr G disagreed. Saying:
-Barclays closed his account because he complained
-Barclays conduct isnt in line with regulations and
-he was emotionally  and financially impacted by Barclays actions
Ref: DRN60296872As Mr G didnt  agree, his complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Barclays was entitled to review Mr Gs account  under the account terms and conditions. 
Having looked  at the evidence about how Mr G was using his account, I can see why 
Barclays reviewed the account.  So Im satisfied that Barclays acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Gs account. I accept that this caused Mr G 
difficulty. And I can understand that hes frustrated that he hasnt been given a proper 
explanation. I note he made several phone calls to the bank to try and find out what  was 
happening with his account.  But Barclays doesnt  have  to provide this information.  So I cant 
say the bank did anything wrong  by not giving this to him.
Barclays is required to have measures  in place to review payments. As part of its review 
process Barclays are entitled to ask a customer for more information. And its not for this 
service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any 
mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake 
hadnt happened. 
I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr G on 1 October 2018 and spoke to him on the telephone 
to let him know it was reviewing his account.  It also told Mr G that it had removed  £1,178.36  
from his account  and in order to be able to release the funds it asked Mr G to provide 
information about the origin of the funds. So I think Barclays  kept Mr G informed about what 
it was doing, and what information  it needed from him. I can also see that once  Mr G 
provided information about the payments, Barclays released the money to him. 
Whilst I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling,  businesses have a legal obligation to protect 
the security of their accounts and also to comply  with various laws and regulations. Mr G 
agreed to this term as a customer, and it is a reasonable  term. Im satisfied that Barclays 
were acting in line with its legal and regulatory  obligations when reviewing Mr Gs account 
and asking him for more information. So I dont  think its done anything wrong or treated
Mr G unfairly when  it blocked his account.
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Gs account, which both Mr G and Barclays had to comply 
with, say that Barclays could close the account  immediately under certain circumstances. So 
Barclays is entitled to close  the account  as it seems its already done.  I know  Mr G believes 
Barclays closed his account because he made a complaint. But Ive not seen any evidence  
that would  support this. Based on the information  Ive looked at I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Barclays took the action it did when  it closed  Mr Gs account immediately. 
I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr G in October  2018 to let him know  it was closing his 
account. However, I note that Barclays closure letter was dated 10 September 2018. And 
Mr G didnt receive this until 12 September 2018.  So Mr G wasnt  given the chance to make  
alternative banking  arrangements. And he wouldnt have been  aware  his account was no 
longer operating until after it had been closed. Barclays  has apologised to Mr G and 
Ref: DRN60296873accepted that this wouldve caused him some trouble and upset   in particular because he 
wouldnt have been able to make use of the account  switching service to set up a new bank 
account. 
I can see that Barclays has also apologised  to Mr G for taking longer than it said it would to 
review his account. Instead of taking 10 days it took an extra  two days  to complete its 
review. Barclays  has accepted it should  have  provided Mr G better service and it has offered 
Mr G £200 to put this right.
In summary,  I think Barclays offer is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Gs complaint. 
And, while I appreciate  Mr G wont agree, I wont be asking it to do anything more.  Whilst I 
realise that Mr G doesnt feel it is nearly  enough,  having carefully  considered all that has 
happened, and also the generally modest  level of awards that this service  makes,  I conclude  
£200 compensation is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that my decision will come as a great frustration  and disappointment  to Mr G. 
But Mr G is entitled to reject my decision. If he does reject it then it is not binding  on him or 
Barclays. And it is then open  to him to raise  these issues in any legal proceedings he wishes  
to instigate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint. So I am not going to ask it do anything more.
If it hasnt  already done so, Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr G £200. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6029687