K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a credit card. Mrs I says Marks & Spencer  Financial Services plc (M&S) mis-sold 
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Is case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs I says it wasnt clear  the policy was optional. But based  on the evidence Ive seen I think  
M&S made it clear  that Mrs I didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this. I say this having  seen  a copy of her 
credit card application form which included a section  for PPI. In this section theres a tick in 
the box to agree to the cover and Mrs I has signed  here, separately to her signature to agree 
to the credit.  So I think this reflected what she wanted at the time.
M&S didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs I so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs I got the information she needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for her.
Mrs I says the terms and conditions of the policy werent explained to her. And I agree the 
information M&S gave  Mrs I about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she 
chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what  Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs I says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer so she had adequate means of 
making her repayments and she didnt need the cover. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of her sick pay and for longer than this wouldve lasted  her. So these funds  couldve been  
used for other expenses  had she suddenly been  out of work  and I still think the PPI couldve 
been useful for her. 
Mrs I told us that she was off work when she was sick. I dont know how long Mrs I was off 
sick or any details of her sickness, or whether she tried to claim on the PPI at that time. But if 
she would  like to make a backdated  claim on the policy she should contact the underwriters  
of the insurance  in the first instance.   
my final decision
For all the reasons outlined above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Ref: DRN69669182Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6966918