K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained that Southern Rock Insurance  Company Limited is unfairly  pursuing 
him to pay a third partys personal  injury  claim following a claim on his motor insurance  
policy.
Reference to Southern  Rock includes its agents.
background
Mr F took out a policy with Southern  Rock  in 2014 which  renewed  in 2015 for a premium of 
£351.12. That policy covered him to drive his car for social, domestic and pleasure purposes 
only. And, while that policy was in force,  he was in an accident that was his fault. Mr F told 
Southern Rock that, at the time of the accident,  he was on his way home  from work having  
been to the gym. Southern Rock told Mr F that as his policy  didn't  cover him for commuting 
he wasn't covered  for the accident. At that point, for an additional premium of £10.95 Mr F 
added commuting to his policy. Mr F later paid the other drivers (the third partys) insurer  
around £1,140  for its outlay to repair the damage to the third partys  car.
In 2018 the third party submitted a personal injury claim  to Southern  Rock.  Southern  Rock  
settled that claim for a total of around  £11,330 in 2019. And, as it said Mr Fs policy  didn't 
cover him for the accident,  it asked him to repay  that sum to it. Mr F didn't think that was  
reasonable and brought his complaint  to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2021.  For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr F took out his policy via a comparison website. And when doing so the comparison  site 
asked him what he used his car for. He was given a number  of options including (amongst 
others):
 Social only
 Social including commuting to a single  place of work
 Business use by you
Mr F selected social only and Southern Rock insured  him on that basis. That meant the 
policy only covered  him if he used  his car for social, domestic and pleasure journeys. Mr F 
didn't change the details  of the cover he required when his policy renewed in 2015.
When Mr F spoke to Southern Rock  about  the claim he told it he was travelling home from 
work at the time of the accident. Southern Rock told him his policy  didn't  cover him for that. 
And on that basis Mr F settled the third partys  claim for the damage to their car.
Many months later, Southern Rock settled a personal injury claim from the third party. And it 
asked Mr F to repay it that sum.  Mr F brought his complaint about that to us. At that time, he 
told us that when he originally took his policy out he hadn't realised it wouldn't  cover him for 
driving to or from work. He said that when he learned about that, he added  commuting to the 
policy. Essentially he said he made  a mistake when applying for the policy  originally as he 
had wanted commuting cover.
Ref: DRN68310732It might help if I explain that where  a policyholder makes a mistake  answering an insurers  
questions when applying  for a policy, such a mistake is usually known as a 
misrepresentation. And theres specific law - the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - which  sets out what  insurers may do when  a 
consumer has made  a misrepresentation. And that says that where but for that 
misrepresentation an insurer would have offered the policy, but charged a higher  premium, 
then the insurer  should settle any claim on a proportionate basis. By that I mean it can work 
out what percentage of the correct  premium the policyholder  had actually paid compared to 
what they should have paid and limit its settlement of any claim to that percentage. But in 
order for the remedies set out in CIDRA to apply Mr F needed  to have made  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
Southern Rock said that this isn't a situation which CIDRA applied to and instead Mr F had 
simply used his car for something outside of the terms of his policy, that is, driving home 
from work.  For the reasons set out below I agree that Mr F didn't make  a misrepresentation 
but I don't think that means Southern  Rock shouldnt  provide Mr F was some, limited, cover 
for the accident.
When applying for the policy Mr F answered a question about what he used his car for. He 
said he used it for social purposes only. But, after Southern Rock told him that he wasn't 
covered for journeys  to and from work,  Mr F told it he didn't normally use his car for work 
and he said:
When I completed the application with [the policy broker] in 2014, I did not use my car for 
work, as I get a lift every day, that has not changed  with the exception of recently, whereby 
the individual that picks  me up was on holiday, so I had to drive to my place of work,  for 
those couple of weeks.
In other  words, shortly  after the incident  that led to the claim, Mr F told Southern  Rock  that 
he didn't need  commuting  on his policy when he took it out or at renewal. But that, because 
his circumstances  had changed, he wasn't getting  a lift to work, so his use of the car had 
changed. But a change in use isn't the same  as making a mistake when taking out the 
policy. In fact, at the time he applied for it and answered the question  about what he used his 
car for Mr F answered Southern Rocks  questions  accurately. So, I don't think  he made a 
misrepresentation.
But I also need to think about what produces a fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances. And I don't think it was fair for Southern Rock to say that Mr F wasn't  
covered at all at the time of his accident. Mr F has explained that he started using  his car for 
work because his circumstances had changed.  That is his friend could no longer drive him to 
work. And while he hadn't needed commuting cover previously,  he needed it once his friend 
would no longer be driving  him to work. So what Mr F should have done at that time was to 
contact Southern Rock, tell it that his circumstances  had changed and ask it if it would cover 
him for his journeys  to and from work.  I've noted that soon after the accident Mr F asked 
Southern Rock to add commuting to the policy.  And it did so for a small additional premium. 
So its clear that if Mr F had asked Southern Rock to add commuting to his policy  before the 
accident thats something it would have been  willing to cover. 
While I don't think Mr F made a misrepresentation, I do think  he made  an honest mistake.  
That was he didn't realise that because of his change  in circumstances he needed to contact 
Southern Rock to change  the use of the car on his policy.  If Mr F had asked Southern Rock 
Ref: DRN68310733to add commuting  to his policy it would have  done  so for a small extra premium which I think  
Mr F would have been happy to pay. And, had he done so Southern  Rock  would  have 
provided the cover Mr F needed. So I don't think its fair that Mr Fs genuine mistake in not 
telling Southern Rock about his change of circumstances  has left him exposed  to cover the 
full liabilities for the accident, when this is something  Southern  Rock  would have happily 
accepted the risk, for a very small premium  increase, for had Mr F contacted  it. 
But as Mr F didn't pay the full premium which would have been due if hed contacted  
Southern Rock prior to the accident  I don't think its fair that Southern Rock should have to 
cover the full costs  of the claims arising  from it. And instead, I think it should settle the third 
party claims on a proportionate  basis, in the same manner as if CIDRA had applied. For the 
avoidance of doubt that means Southern Rock should work out what percentage of the 
correct premium Mr F actually paid compared to what he should have paid if hed added 
commuting to his policy prior to the accident.  
By my calculations Mr F actually paid around 97% of his full premium. That means  that 
Southern Rock is responsible for 97% of the settlement figures  for the claims for both 
accidental damage  and personal injury  from the third party. And Mr F should remain 
responsible for the other 3% of the claims settlement amounts. And if my calculations  are 
correct that means  that the total cost of the claims was (£1,142.10 + £11,330.37) 
£12,472.47. And Mr F should be responsible for 3% of that sum, which  I calculate  to be 
£374.17. But Mr F has already paid £1,142.10  to the third-party insurer to cover the costs of 
the accident damage claim. And I think this is more than he should have paid if 
Southern Rock had dealt  with the claim fairly. So, I think Southern Rock should reimburse 
Mr F the sum hes overpaid, which I think is (£1,142.10  £374.17) £767.93. Southern  Rock  
should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date that Mr F settled 
the third party  insurers  claim to the date Southern Rock reimburses him.  
For completeness, when he brought his complaint to us, Mr F seemed to dispute  the amount  
Southern Rock had settled the third partys  personal  injury  claim for. He thinks that sum was 
too high given the low speed  of the accident. But Southern Rock  has explained that it 
received medical  evidence to support that claim. And in those circumstances  it would have 
been very difficult for it to argue that the third party didn't suffer the injuries claimed for. And 
it settled the claim in line with recognised court approved guidelines.  So I think  it was 
reasonable for it to settle the claim for the sum that it did.
developments 
Mr F accepted my provisional decision;  Southern Rock didn't. It said it didn't accept that 
CIDRA applied and instead Mr F was using his car for something he wasn't insured for. 
 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
Southern Rock has said that CIDRA doesn't apply. But I didn't say that it did. I said in my 
provisional decision that Mr F hadn't made a misrepresentation and as such  CIDRA didn't 
apply. Instead  I said that I didn't think it was fair that having  made  a genuine  mistake  with his 
cover, Mr F was left exposed to the full costs of a claim  that, but for Mr Fs mistake, Southern 
Rock would have  been happy  to cover. And as such I said it would be a fair and reasonable 
Ref: DRN68310734outcome for Southern Rock to settle  the claim on a proportionate basis. Southern  Rock  
hasn't said anything in reply  to my provisional decision that persuades me to change my 
view on that point. So I remain  satisfied  that the fair thing for Southern Rock to do is to settle 
the claim on a proportionate basis.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Southern Rock Insurance 
Company Limited  to recalculate its own and Mr Fs liabilities for the third partys claims on a 
proportionate basis as described  above.  If that means Mr F has paid too much to settle the 
other sides claim then Southern Rock should  reimburse him with the amount hes overpaid 
and add simple  interest to it at a rate of 8% a year from the date he paid it to the date it 
reimburses him1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1If Southern Rock considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6831073