K820x#14The complaint
Ms R says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of the policy  insurer.  I cant  consider this 
complaint against  the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before 
that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  were  regulated  by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer  to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms R took out in 2001  which  was attached  to her 
existing store card account. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so, the complaint was passed to me. I issued  my provisional decision in February  2021,  
explaining why I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Heres what  I said:
Ms R says the policy was taken out during a meeting. AXA says the policy  was sold during a 
telephone call two years after she took out her store card and it has provided a copy of its 
records which show the policy start date is different from the account start date. Ms R hasnt 
said why she thinks the PPI was sold during a meeting,  so from the information I have, I 
think the policy was sold during a telephone  call a couple of years  later.  
During that telephone call, FICL should  have taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear to     
Ms R that the policy was optional. Ms R says she was not aware she had taken PPI and it 
was added without  her knowledge. Unfortunately, FICL hasnt  been  able to provide any 
further information - such as a recording of that telephone call or a copy of the call script 
used at the time. So, its not possible for me to know exactly  what was said at the time this 
policy was taken out. But based  on what I do know of the sales process at the time and 
given the fact the PPI was added a few months  after she applied  for the store  card, I think    
Ms R would have understood the policy was optional  when she agreed to take it.
On balance, I think AXA made it clear that Ms R didnt have to take out the PPI, and she
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms R, so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms R got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Ms R says she would  have got generous  sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI 
would have paid out alongside her employee benefits meaning she could have used  these to 
cover other essential costs.
Ms R also says she had significant  savings at the time that she could have used  to make her 
repayments. And our adjudicator upheld Ms Rs complaint on this point because they thought 
Ref: DRN62221372Ms Rs savings combined with her sick pay benefits  would have meant she had enough to 
cover her repayments. And had she been  properly  informed about the cost and benefit  of the 
policy, the adjudicator  thought its unlikely Ms R would have decided to take the policy out. 
Ive thought carefully about this  but the amount of savings  Ms R says she had was an 
unusual amount to have  without it being earmarked for other things. Ms R also hasnt 
provided any evidence  of the savings,  so if she did have the amount she says she did, I 
dont know how accessible they were or how easily she could have accessed them.  
Whereas the policy would have paid out after 60 days and would have covered her 
repayments for up to 12 months  it also had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in 
full. And having  the PPI would have  meant  she wouldnt have needed to use her savings. 
So, I think it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong. I also havent  seen 
anything to make me think the PPI was unaffordable. All of this means  I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Overall, I currently dont  think Ms R has lost out because of anything  AXA might  have 
done wrong.
I asked both parties to respond with anything further  they wanted  me to consider, but no one 
has responded. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Ms Rs case.
As no one had anything more  for me to consider, my decision remains  the same   I dont 
uphold this complaint.  I say this because overall  I dont  think  Ms R has lost out because of 
anything AXA might have  done.
Ref: DRN62221373My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6222137