K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about Mrs and Mrs Ms mortgage;  its currently  held with Kensington 
Mortgage Company  Limited following a transfer from the original lender. Mr and Mrs M 
complained of the following:
the sale of an endowment  policy  with the mortgage;
the interest rate they were charged  on the mortgage; and
the way they were  treated when they were  having difficulty  in keeping  up with the 
mortgage payments.
background 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Im also mindful that in September  2019, an ombudsman colleague decided that our 
jurisdiction to consider  the complaint was limited to events that happened after 1 April 2014. 
Broadly, speaking, that meant in practical terms we could look into the court  action that 
resulted in a suspended possession order being granted in 2015. 
I know Mr and Mrs M remain unhappy at this restriction, but so theres no ambiguity, Ill 
maker clear now that I have no intention of revisiting my fellow  ombudsmans decision on the 
extent of our remit to consider the complaint.
One of our investigators  then considered the merits of the complaint, within the constraints 
Ive detailed above. For the most part, she didnt think Mr and Mrs M had been  treated 
unfairly. She did think it might had been reasonable if an offer Mr and Mrs M made to pay 
£500 a month had been accepted. 
But even if that had happened, the investigator  didnt think  it would have changed the course 
of events significantly. On balance she thought it more likely than not that the court action  
would still have gone ahead and the court would still have  issued a possession order.
The investigator recommended  Kensington pay Mr and Mrs M £300 compensation to settle 
the complaint.  Kensington agreed to do this but Mr and Mrs M, as it their right,  asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr and Mrs M. Ive reached broadly  the same conclusions  as the investigator.
I should start by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service  doesnt replicate the work 
of the courts. Its not appropriate for me to second-guess or otherwise interfere with the 
Ref: DRN68024912decision of the court in the possession  proceedings. All I can do is consider whether  
Kensington treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove or even  fetter that right in a final decision on 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, regardless of their wider  situation. Ive no doubt  the court action 
was unwelcome to Mr and Mrs M but in all the circumstances I cant say it was unfair.
Thats not to say I think Kensington got every judgement right. As the investigator observed, 
theres an argument for saying it should have  accepted the payment proposal of £500 a 
month. But I agree with the investigator  when she said it was unlikely to have altered the 
course of events. I think the case would still have ended up before the court.
Everything has its context, and the key point here isnt just that the £500  didnt cover the 
monthly interest. Its that the mortgage term had expired, and the entire  balance  was 
overdue. Im not convinced Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have struggled  in any event to keep to 
the offer to pay £500 a month, but they should at least have been given the opportunity  to 
try. Insofar as they were denied that opportunity, I agree that £300  is fair compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part by 
ordering Kensington Mortgage  Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £300. I dont make 
any other order or award.  My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6802491