K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc allowed her to open an account, and then closed it a 
few days later. She says this caused her distress and inconvenience and wants TSB to pay 
her compensation. 
background
On 14 September  2018, Miss M applied to open  an account with TSB.  Miss M says she 
intended to use the account  to receive  benefit payments.
TSB told Miss M that her account had been opened  and she was told her new account 
number and sort code.  Three  days later TSB completed its account opening checks and 
decided to close the account  immediately.  
TSB told Miss M about its decision to close her account during a phone call on 18 
September 2018. And it explained it had closed the account because Miss M had failed its 
secondary security checks,  which are completed  once an account has been opened.
No transactions  had taken place on the account. 
Miss M complained to TSB.  She said shed provided the account details to government  
agencies so that she could receive  her benefit payments. Miss M says because  TSB closed 
the account she had no money  for a week. And she had to rely on food banks and friends for 
food. Shes  says things  were particularly difficult for her and her family  as one of her children 
has health problems,  so she was worried shed attract the attention  of social  services if she 
wasnt seen to be able to feed her children.
TSB said the terms and conditions of the account allowed it to close  an account immediately 
in certain circumstances and it didnt have  to provide a reason  to the customer.  Miss M 
wasnt happy with this response. So, she brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Ms complaint. He said the bank hadnt done 
anything wrong. Miss M disagreed so the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss M feels she has been treated poorly and that it was unfair that her 
account was closed. And I can appreciate  that Miss M was disappointed to have her account 
closed by TSB. But as the investigator  has explained, TSB is entitled to decide  who it wants 
as its customers. Ive seen a copy of a call note of the conversation TSB had with Miss M on 
18 September 2018, which shows  that it explained to Miss M that the account being  opened 
was subject to secondary checks, which couldnt  be completed at the time of opening, and in 
this case as a result  of those checks TSB decided to close  Miss Ms account. 
The terms and conditions  of the account also set out that under certain  circumstances TSB 
can close a customers account immediately. Having looked at the information  TSB received 
in response to its checks Im satisfied  that TSB acted in line with the terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN61910442So, I cant say that TSB was wrong  to close the account. I appreciate that this will be 
disappointing to Miss M.
Ive taken carefully into account  everything Miss M has told us about how this account 
closure affected her. But Ive also taken into account  that TSBs policy is to open  an account 
on application and then complete further checks.  This is explained in its terms and 
conditions, which Miss M agreed to when she applied to open  the account.  And Ive kept in 
mind that no payments were made into the account prior to it being closed. So, all in all I 
cant say TSB treated Miss M unfairly.  
Miss M says TSB didnt let her know that it had closed her account. But under the account 
terms and conditions TSB werent obliged to inform Miss M. So, I cant say TSB has done 
anything wrong. However, as Ive explained,  I can see that Miss M called TSB on 18 
September 2018, and that during this call TSB explained that it had closed  her account. And 
the reasons behind its decision. So, I think Miss M wouldve been aware her account had 
been closed  albeit at her own initiation because she made  the call. 
I realise Miss M will be disappointed by my decision,  but for the reasons Ive given Im not 
satisfied TSB made a mistake or acted unreasonably. So, Im not going to ask them  to do 
anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6191044