K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly  lent 
to him. 
background
Sunny provided  Mr H with 20 loans  over 10 months   he took out the first loan in March  
2017 and the last loan in January 2018. All the loans  were due to run for 24 weeks  and they 
ranged in amount between £50 and £700. All the loans were settled. 
Theres a table at the end of my decision setting out details of the loans.
Our adjudicator mentioned upholding the complaint from loan 5  but also suggested that 
Sunny shouldnt have provided  loan 4 to Mr H or any further  loans after that.
In any event, Sunny disagreed. So the complaint  came to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried  out proportionate  checks to make sure Mr H could repay  
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr H could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN61514552Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  the first four loans were proportionate. Ive 
thought carefully  about what Mr H told Sunny.  Given these loan repayment amounts, what  
was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history  with Sunny, 
I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the level of information 
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing  the first four 
loans. I think its fair to say that Sunny had no reason during this period to think that it would 
be a mistake just to rely on what its checks showed and what Mr H was telling Sunny about  
his financial circumstances. And I accept that the monthly repayments Mr H was making 
looked affordable  when  compared against  what Mr H had told Sunny about his monthly  
income and expenditure. 
But, by loans 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, I think Sunny should  have realised that it was no longer 
reasonable to base  its lending decision on the information Mr H was providing. I think it 
would have been proportionate for Sunny to have  taken  steps  to independently  check  the 
true state of his finances before providing  him with these loans. 
Mr H was asking for Sunny loans repeatedly and in quick succession  (often  when he was 
already paying  existing  Sunny loans). And since  taking his first loan hed been more  or less 
continuously indebted to Sunny (apart from what looks like a one day gap between  loans 3 
and 4 and a three day break between loans  7 and 8). So I think  Sunny shouldve  been 
alerted by this to look further into Mr Hs circumstances when he took out loans 5-9.
If Sunny had done proportionate checks for loans 5  9, this would most likely  have shown  
that Mr H had also been borrowing with other short term lenders for some time. 
When he took out loan 5, he had outstanding  borrowing  with another provider of short term 
high cost credit - and from then on. 
But Ive taken into account that loans  5, 6, 7, and 8 were for relatively small amounts 
compared to his declared income and expenditure. And his borrowing with the other lender 
around this time was also for relatively  small amounts. And he appeared to be managing  his 
borrowing at this stage  as it looks like he was repaying all his debt. 
So, on balance, I dont  find I have  enough  evidence safely  to conclude that Sunny shouldnt 
have provided  loans 5-8.
Ref: DRN61514553But loan 9 was by far the biggest  amount  Mr H had asked Sunny for - and much bigger  than 
any other loan hed taken out elsewhere. So I think this shouldve  made  Sunny think very 
carefully about continuing to lend to him  and certainly, whether a loan of this size was 
really sustainably affordable for him. Had Sunny  looked in depth at Mr Hs finances it would 
have seen that there was a real risk that he was borrowing either  to repay, or to cover the 
gap in his finances left by paying, other short term lending.  That shouldve  made  Sunny 
realise that Mr H was by then facing serious  problems managing his money. So I dont think 
it was reasonable  for Sunny to conclude that it was likely Mr H would be able to repay this, 
or any subsequent  loan,  in a sustainable  manner.  And I dont think  that Sunny shouldve lent 
him loan 9.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr H to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or 
otherwise harmful. Thats  when Sunny shouldve realised that it shouldnt  have  provided  any 
further loans.  
I think this point was reached by loan 10. By this point, Mr H had taken out ten loans in six 
months. And it was the third time hed borrowed again within a short time of paying previous  
loans. When he paid loan 2, it looks like he took out loan 3 the next day. There  was a gap in 
lending of around three days only between loans 7 and 8. And he took out loan 9 the same  
day (it appears) that he paid loan 8. I can also see from other  information I think  Sunny 
wouldve likely seen if it had checked (and shouldve acted on) that the day he took out loan 
9 was also the same day that he paid off a loan with another  lender.  
I think Sunny  shouldve realised that there  wasnt any indication  that Mr Hs finances had 
moved on from whatever  situation had required his previous loans. It was unlikely he was 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in income  rather, it looked like he had an ongoing 
need for the money. And thats  borne out by what followed  a continuing pattern of 
dependency on Sunny  lending him often overlapping  loans.
In these circumstances, I think there  was a significant risk that Mr H wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments  for loan 10  and any subsequent loans.
I think that Mr H lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing which  had the effect 
of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing  him to take expensive credit intended 
for short-term use over an extended  period  of time.  And the sheer  number of loans was likely 
to have had negative implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
So at the moment  Im upholding the complaint about loans 9 through to 20 and planning to 
say that Sunny should take steps to put things right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr H agrees with what Ive said in my provisional decision.
Sunny hasnt sent me any further comments or information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN61514554Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.  
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about  this case, I still think  its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny should:
 refund all interest  and charges that Mr H paid on loans 9 to 20
 pay interest  of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
 remove  any negative  information about  loan 9 from Mr Hs credit  file
 the number  of loans  taken from loan 10 means  any information recorded about  them  is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 10 to 20 should  be removed from Mr Hs credit  file.
*HMRC requires  Sunny to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks Sunny for a certificate 
showing how much  tax it has taken  off, Sunny should provide this. 
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as 
Sunny) to pay Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6151455