K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Avon Insurance Plc mis-sold him an accidental death  insurance 
policy.
background
In 1995, Mr B was sold an endowment policy by his building society alongside  a mortgage. 
In 1996, Mr B was sold an accidental  death  insurance policy  by Avon.
In 2003, Mr B complained to the building society that the endowment  policy had been mis-
sold. The building society upheld his complaint and agreed to refund his premiums.
In 2019, Mr B discovered that the accidental death policy  was still in force and was 
apparently connected with his building society.  He complained that he had understood this 
was a life assurance  policy which had nothing  to do with his building society.  He said that, 
given it was connected with his building  society, the policy should  have been  cancelled and 
his premiums refunded  as part of the resolution  of his 2003  complaint. He wanted Avon to 
refund all his premiums.
Avon didnt  uphold his complaint. It said Mr B had applied to take out the policy  after it sent 
him a direct mailing. It said it didnt know anything about the mis-sold endowment policy.
Mr B was unhappy at Avons response. He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He explained that 
although the accidental death insurance  policy had been offered through  a mailing to the 
building societys customers,  it had been sold by Avon and not by the building society.  He 
was satisfied that the nature of the cover  had been  made clear and that Mr B had chosen to 
apply for the policy. He could see no reason why Mr B should be awarded a refund of his 
premiums.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He said the accidental  death insurance policy 
had been taken out at the same time as his endowment mortgage. He said he was led to 
believe he had to take out the cover to obtain his endowment policy.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence shows that Mr Bs endowment policy started in December 1995. Mr B applied  
to take out the accidental death cover in October  1996. Im therefore satisfied that the two 
policies were not taken  out at the same time. And while  Avon sold the accidental  death 
policy through a direct  mailing to the building societys  customers, and the direct mailing 
referred to the endowment policy which Mr B had taken out through  the building society, Im 
satisfied that this was a separate insurance  policy which  was sold by Avon  and not by the 
Ref: DRN62802882building society.  I therefore wouldnt have expected this policy to have been included  in the 
settlement of Mr Bs complaint by the building society  in 2003.
I consider that the mailing made clear that the policy would provide cover  of £30,000 in the 
event that Mr B was to die as a result  of an accident. Mr B signed a form to apply for the 
cover. I have seen  nothing to suggest  that he was led to believe he had no choice but to 
take out the policy.
Mr B has been paying a monthly premium for the policy since  that time and his estate would 
have been entitled to receive £30,000  if he had been unfortunate enough to have suffered 
an accidental death. I see no reasonable grounds  for saying  the policy was mis-sold or that 
Mr B should  receive  a refund  of premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6280288