K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain about the 
recommendation of a whole of life policy by Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada  (U.K.)  
Limited.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs P were in their 30s/20s respectively, married  with no dependants and 
both working full-time, with a joint income of just under £60,000. The recommended policy  
provided £150,000 of life, critical illness and permanent disability cover.  
The CMC complained that Mr and Mrs P were misled into taking out the policy  because  the 
cover wasnt  guaranteed.  It highlighted that the suitability letter said the adviser had 
recommended the policy  because  Mr and Mrs P felt they wanted permanent protection to 
last throughout  (their) lifetime.
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. It felt the policy was a suitable way of meeting Mr and 
Mrs Ps need for income protection. It highlighted the policys flexibility, in that the cover 
wasnt restricted to a specific  term. It was also satisfied that they received  sufficient  
information to keep them informed of the product benefits and the fact that it would be 
reviewed. 
The complaint was referred  to this service where  our adjudicator  reached  the same  
conclusions as Sun Life. 
The CMC responded  to say that relying  on post-sale documents  to justify the 
recommendation wasnt reasonable. It reiterated  that the suitability letter said Mr and Mrs P 
wanted permanent  protection to last throughout their lifetimes and they werent sold a plan 
that would  achieve this. It said the letter didnt stress that theyd have to pay increasing  
premiums to maintain  the same level of cover.
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as that reached by Sun Life and the 
adjudicator. I think the policy was a broadly suitable  means by which  to meet Mr and Mrs Ps 
need for financial protection. 
Their circumstances  at the time suggest they had such a need  and wouldve  benefitted  from 
the cover  provided.  The policy seems  to have been recommended after reasonable 
consideration and discussion, including looking at term cover as a possible alternative.  
The CMC has focussed very much  on the wording in the suitability letter  that indicated Mr 
and Mrs P were seeking permanent protection. Clearly  the cover  would  only be permanent 
 or guaranteed to remain in place  if the premiums were  paid. And these could be 
increased in the future. But Sun Life has said the policy  was set up on a standard  basis,  
therefore making the likelihood of unaffordable future increases much less likely. 
Ref: DRN68229492And, as noted, it seems  that the alternative  of term cover was discussed  and, in any event, 
that wouldnt have  been in anyway  permanent, as a specific  term would have been 
determined at the outset.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6822949