K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance, (PPI), policy.
background
Ms M bought the PPI policy during a meeting in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit 
card. The monthly  premiums were no more than 79p for every  £100 outstanding on her 
credit card. And following  a successful claim the PPI would have paid 10% of her credit card 
balance a month if Ms M had been unable to work because  of accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment. These payments  would  have  been made for up to 12 months 
and been in addition to any sick pay that she may have been entitled to.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Ms M disagreed 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think that NatWest made  Ms M aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it. I say this because Ive seen Ms Ms signed credit card application  form. There  is 
a section in it dealing with PPI. And I can see that this section  has been ticked  to request 
PPI. It may be that it was NatWests representative who filled in the form this way. But 
Im satisfied  that, on balance, this would have been after discussing Ms Ms wishes  with 
her and that she would  have  had the opportunity to check  the form and point out any 
mistakes before signing it;
 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M. So it didnt have to check  that it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure that Ms M had clear, fair and not-misleading 
information about the policy so that she could make her own decision  whether she 
wanted it or not;
Its possible the information NatWest gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
Ref: DRN61697132Ive thought about everything Ms M has said - including that her friends and family could 
have helped her out if she hadnt been  working. As we explain on our website,  we dont 
usually take this into account because  circumstances change  and such  assistance  isnt 
guaranteed. Theres  nothing  Ive found in Ms Ms case  to make me think its reasonable to 
deviate from this approach here.  So this and her other points dont change my decision. 
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms M about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Ms M, 
that was unfair; 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is that the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold so National 
Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Ms M. 
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Ms M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6169713