K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that BCS Loans  & Mortgages Limited mis-sold their mortgage. They 
say it was sold on an interest only basis without relevant guidelines being followed. They 
also say that details of their income were falsely  edited. Mr and Mrs N are represented by 
their daughter, who Ill refer to as Miss N. Mr and Mrs N want to remain in their home  and 
receive justice for the mis-sale.
 
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage in March 2007  for £139,500  on an interest  only basis over 
a ten year term. The mortgage was arranged by BCS.  
Mr and Mrs N self-certified their income. They said that it was their intention to switch  to a 
repayment mortgage at a later date to ensure it was paid off, or sell the property.
Miss N says income details were  edited  for Mr and Mrs N. She believes this was done 
fraudulently and that Mr and Mrs N didnt understand what  they were  doing at the time.
Mr and Mrs N complained  to BCS who said that the mortgage was sold on a non-advised 
basis and recommendations made by the broker were rejected by Mr and Mrs N. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied with what 
BCS had done at the time the mortgage was taken out. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree. On their behalf, Miss N said in summary:
while the investigator said practices  were different when the mortgage was taken out, 
she doesnt believe this treats the customer fairly or is a logical outcome.
Mr and Mrs Ns income was inflated  to suggest they could afford  to save  enough to 
repay the mortgage.
even if Mr and Mrs N signed  the relevant documents, they were  probably unsure of what 
they were signing. And as the paperwork has multiple amendments, how can we be sure 
which version Mr and Mrs N signed? 
As Mr and Mrs N disagreed, the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Regulations related to mortgage lending have changed considerably  since Mr and Mrs N 
took out their mortgage. But I have to take account of regulation and good industry practice  
at that time when  reaching my decision.
Mr and Mrs N took out a 10 year mortgage in 2007  on an interest  only basis. The documents 
say the mortgage was arranged by BCS on a non-advised basis.  BCS provided documents  
from that time, including  a fact find and mortgage  application.
Ref: DRN61724462Mr and Mrs N wanted to re-finance their mortgage  (about £94,000)  and a second charge 
mortgage (about £33,000). This included early repayment charges of about £4,500.  They 
also wanted to consolidate unsecured debt of about £1,500. Fees  of about £5,300  were  
added to the mortgage loan. 
Mr and Mrs N wanted to reduce their monthly outgoings. Their income didnt cover their 
expenditure. Theyd missed payments on their second charge loan and were about  five 
months in arrears. Theyd  received a letter from the second charge lender about  potential 
court action to possess  the house.  Their first charge mortgage lender had declined  to lend 
them more.  Most of Mr and Mrs Ns unsecured debt was in a debt management 
arrangement. They  had defaults  recorded.  The mortgage documents say Mr and Mrs N fell 
behind with payments  due to Mr N being unable to work for a time due to a back injury: hed 
returned to full health and they wanted a fresh start.
The mortgage fact find sets out Mr and Mrs Ns income and expenditure.  Part of their income  
was from employment  and they both had additional income from self employed activities.  
This was self certified, as permitted by regulations  at that time. Mr and Mrs Ns annual  
income was recorded  as £30,000 each.
The fact find says Mr and Mrs N wanted an interest  only mortgage to make it as affordable 
as possible. They intended to switch  to capital repayment after the initial  tie-in period, once 
their credit profile had improved, or sell the property.
The fact find is signed and dated by Mr and Mrs N as being accurate. The annual income 
stated on the application  form is £30,000  for each of Mr and Mrs N. Mr and Mrs N also 
signed a declaration to self-certify their income as £30,000 each. 
BCS issued a product  confirmation document explaining why it didnt recommend  an interest 
only mortgage. BCS said it recommended  Mr and Mrs N look for a repayment  mortgage but 
Mr and Mrs N wanted an interest  only mortgage.  BCS said it recommended  the mortgage 
term didnt go beyond  Mr and Mrs Ns expected retirement age: however, Mr and Mrs N 
wanted a longer term. BCS also explained  the consequences of securing previously 
unsecured debt against their home  and repaying debt over a longer  period. 
Miss N offered to get a handwriting expert to give an opinion as to whether the writing on the 
documents belongs  to Mr and Mr N. But its usual for application documents to be completed 
by the broker. So I dont think this will help determine what happened  here.
I dont know if the income stated in the mortgage documents was correct or if Mr and Mrs N 
believed at the time that it was correct.  Miss N says Mr and Mrs N signed  blank forms and 
BCS added information later. She also said information in the documents about Mr and 
Mrs Ns income  was altered by BCS without Mr and Mrs Ns knowledge.  I havent  seen 
evidence to support  this. Having reviewed the documents, I think  this is unlikely.
Based on the mortgage documents, it seems Mr and Mrs N had an urgent need to refinance. 
They couldnt maintain their debt repayments  and were facing possession  proceedings by 
their second  charge lender. Given the situation  they were in at the time, I think  its likely  Mr 
and Mrs N would have  proceeded  with this or a similar mortgage  to refinance their debts,  
regardless of whether it was arranged by BCS. 
Ref: DRN61724463Mr and Mrs Ns credit record meant they had limited  options, although the information  
provided by BCS shows it looked for lenders that were willing to lend to see what  options  
were available to Mr and Mrs N. I dont think theres  anything here to suggest that BCS 
misled Mr and Mrs N about  the mortgage  they took out. It provided information about  the 
mortgage, the consequences  of consolidating debt, and why it recommended  they look for a 
capital repayment  mortgage. Overall, I dont think theres anything here to suggest  BCS 
acted wrongly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6172446