K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Morgans Ltd (Morgans) didnt invest a single premium  contribution  into 
his self-invested personal pension  (SIPP)  as hed instructed  and subsequently the funds 
remained in cash.  He wants to be compensated for the investment growth he says he would 
have received if his investment instruction had been  followed.
background
In October  2015 Mr S contacted Morgans to invest a lump sum into a new pension plan. He 
wanted the money to be invested into the same funds hed previously used for his ISA and 
Morgans identified a provider that could  accommodate  that instruction and agreed  to invest 
across the same five funds.
 
Morgans sent an application for the SIPP to the new provider on 16 October 2015 - this 
included handwritten investment instructions in the comments  section of its covering letter,  
a cheque for £27,000, and identification  to meet the anti-money laundering requirements.
On 19 October 2015 the provider confirmed to Mr S that the cheque had been  paid into his 
SIPP and sent Morgans an email confirming receipt  of the cheque.  The email confirmed that 
the cheque would clear as cash and that Morgans could now move  the money between cash 
and any required investments.
Sometime after this, the provider  sent Morgans a copy  of a letter it said it had sent as an 
attachment with the October 2015  email  known as a welcome letter.  This welcome letter 
included the line: 
Please note it is your responsibility  to make investments on the account.  We are not able to 
make any investments on your behalf.
Morgans said it didnt  receive the welcome  letter at the time it gave the provider instructions 
to invest. 
In addition to the above  investment,  on 29 October 2015, Mr S instructed Morgans to
transfer a further  £9,013 from his company pension to the new SIPP  on the same investment
basis, and on 18 December 2015,  the SIPP provider confirmed receipt  of these funds.
Two years later, Mr S discovered that the monies  transferred  to the SIPP had not been 
invested as instructed and had been held in cash. So he complained  to Morgans and wanted 
to be compensated  for any lost investment growth.  But Morgans didnt uphold his complaint.
It said it had given the SIPP provider clear instructions on how to invest Mr Ss money  and 
therefore it was the provider  who had caused any loss of investment growth. 
It told Mr S to complain to the SIPP provider. But Mr S believed  his contract was with 
Morgans and wasnt happy with its response - so he brought his complaint to us. 
On 21 February 2018 Mr S transferred his SIPP to a new provider.
One of our adjudicators then looked into the matter and initially  thought the complaint should 
not be upheld.  Then,  after consideration of the SIPP providers  Terms and Conditions  
(T&Cs), he thought the complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN68508422He thought the providers  T&Cs  were explicit in stipulating that it was the advisers 
responsibility to place the investments. The adjudicator  also thought that Morgans should  
have had a good knowledge of the working practices of any provider whose  investments it 
recommended and had a duty of care to check that the investments had been  placed.
Morgans didnt agree  on the basis that:
It didnt receive the welcome letter at the time it instructed the provider to invest  and 
isnt satisfied that the provider cant provide an as sent  copy  of the letter.
As it didnt receive the welcome letter  it wasnt notified of its responsibility to make 
investments within the SIPP.
The SIPP T&C's point  5.2 only implies authority to manage investments  and this isnt 
a definitive "you must" statement.
The T&Cs dont state that the provider wont accept instructions by post.
The SIPP provider didnt inform or notify Morgans that the instructions had not and 
would not be acted on.
The adjudicator recognised that it would have been  good practice for the provider to state  
categorically  in the body of the email dated  19 October 2015  that it would not be 
implementing the investment  strategy. But nevertheless, he thought  the T&Cs combined 
with the email of 19 October 2015  should  have been  enough  to ensure that Morgans double 
checked that the investments had been placed, even if they didnt get the welcome letter.  
As it still didnt agree,  Morgans asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  So 
its been passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions, and for largely the same reasons.
When Mr S met with Morgans  in 2015  he wanted to make a pension  contribution  using a 
professional adviser  to ensure his request was carried out correctly. 
So what  I have to consider here is whether Morgans was at fault for the money remaining 
uninvested during that time.  And on balance I think that it was, for the following reasons:
An adviser led product  
Ive looked carefully  at the adviser handshake  document, which  in itself is an indication of 
the relationship  the provider expected to have with Morgans regarding  Mr Ss SIPP. It was 
clear this was an adviser-led product and there  were numerous  references to that in the 
document and also within  the T&Cs.  Within the adviser handshake document, under the 
'transfers'  heading, it stated you will be responsible for initiating and co-ordinating the 
processing of all transfers from other providers.  And under advice it said All matters 
Ref: DRN68508423relating to advice  to your clients are your responsibility and, for the avoidance of doubt,  we 
cannot provide  advice  to you or your clients in relation to:
 The suitability, or otherwise, of a product or individual investment.
 The level of contributions,  payments or subscriptions to pay.
 Which investments to buy/sell".
And looking at the providers  T&Cs  Ive seen a number of references which  set out the 
advisers responsibilities  in these matters. Ive noted  a few of these points  below.
You are responsible for selecting the product and any investments, including any managed 
portfolio. it may be up to 5 business  days before payments or contributions or 
subscriptions or transfers made into your account in cash are available  for use.  
As we do not give advice, you and your adviser  are wholly  responsible for initiating and co-
ordinating the processing of transfers. 
Except where indicated  otherwise in clause  5.3, you give your adviser full authority to 
manage your account including:
5.2.1 giving instructions  to transfer cash between your accounts or products on the website
5.2.2 giving instructions  to transfer cash between your SIPP account and the investment 
manager or the funds &shares service.
5.2.3 giving instructions  to initiate transfers from other providers  to your account.
I accept that Morgans did give instructions to the provider,  and that the providers response 
could have been more robust and explicit, but I think  the T&Cs  do make it reasonably clear 
that the provider doesnt  make any investments on the customers behalf  and has set the 
product up in such a way that the adviser  is expected to take responsibility for the whole 
process.
The SIPP provider has also confirmed that Morgans previously transferred other pensions  to 
it in cash. So I think, with the benefit of that experience,  its reasonable to expect Morgans to 
have been aware  of the process  and of the providers  T&Cs.   
Attachment to the providers  response
The SIPP provider has said that, along with the response to Morgans initial  application, it did 
answer the question  of moving funds from cash to underlying investments. It says that a 
letter, which needed  to be generated before  it could  complete the application, was sent to 
Morgans as an attachment to its first response. Ive seen a copy of the communication, 
which contained the extra statement Please note it is your responsibility to make  an 
investment on the account. We are not able to make  any investments on your behalf.  
The provider said this would  have been  sent as an attachment, but Morgans says it never 
received this information. The copy Ive seen doesnt confirm  whether or not it was sent or 
who it would  have been sent to  although it is headed for the attention  of the same  person 
at Morgans. 
I think, on balance,  it was probably sent as an email  attachment,  although  I acknowledge 
Morgans position  that it didnt receive  it. 
Covering letter and handwritten instructions
Ref: DRN68508424But even if it could be argued that there was ambiguity in what  the provider  had said it would 
do on a consumers or advisers behalf  in the T&Cs, or Morgans didnt receive  the 
attachment about  needing to make  the investments itself, I think there are other compelling 
reasons here as to why Morgans should have checked that the investments had been made. 
In the application form that Morgans sent the provider in order to make Mr Ss SIPP 
contribution, there isnt a section to indicate  what investments should be made. If a provider 
was willing  to invest on a consumers behalf, it seems a reasonable expectation  that it would 
provide a section  for detailing the investment  requests. My view is that the absence  of such  
a provision here would  strongly indicate that the provider wouldnt be applying money to 
specific funds. I think the fact that the application form asked which investment strategy  
options were required   Morgans confirmed a Funds  and Shares service  and that Morgans 
needed to set out the five funds Mr S wanted  to invest in as a hand  written note on the 
covering letter, ought to have suggested to Morgans  that it wasnt usual practice for the 
provider to allocate investment choices for a customers  plan.
The SIPP providers response to Morgans application also said Thank you for the cheque  
for the contribution payment into the above SIPP.  Please note, it may take up to five 
working days for a cheque payment  to appear in the SIPP  cash  account whilst we await  
confirmation that the bank  has cleared the payment. To move  monies  between  the SIPP 
cash account and investment  partner (s), you can use the cash  movement facility located  
through the secure area of our website  on the client valuation page.  A user guide containing 
details of how to move cash between accounts  is also available through our website.
That response could  be seen as generic in content and its fair to say that it didnt specifically  
deal with Morgans  handwritten investment instructions. But there was also no confirmation 
here that the investments  had been  made. And so, given the additional factor  of there being 
no dedicated section  for investment selection,  I think it ought reasonably to have prompted  
Morgans to make further checks that the money had been invested.
 
If it had done so, then I believe  any confusion would  have been resolved and Morgans could 
have allocated the money across the various  funds as required.  
Ongoing advice and mitigation 
I have also considered what should have  happened in the months after the application as 
Mr S did have an agreement to receive ongoing advice from Morgans. 
Although theres  no documentary evidence to confirm how often  if at all  Morgans needed 
to contact Mr S, Ive seen  copies of the annual  statements that were  sent to Mr S in 
September 2016 and 2017, which set out the value of his SIPP.  I note that the contribution  of 
£27,000 was confirmed as well as the transfer  from Mr S company scheme. 
But there was also confirmation that the funds  totalling £35,597.68  were  held in the 
SIPP cash account . Notably, the statements also showed that copies had been sent to 
Morgans, and as the professional party in the relationship, I think  it should  have  noticed  
something was awry. 
Mr S also received those  statements,  but having  entrusted Morgans with the transfer and 
subsequent reinvestment, I think its likely that he simply  looked  at the headline  figures 
rather than the actual investments. My view is that this was a further missed opportunity to 
recognise that Mr Ss SIPP funds  hadnt  been  invested and were still held in cash.
Ref: DRN68508425. 
Summary
For the reasons  given  above, my view is that Morgans  was at fault in not realising Mr Ss 
SIPP funds  hadnt  been invested as planned.  It had the ultimate responsibility to ensure 
Mr Ss instructions were  carried out as requested  and Mr S had paid Morgans for that 
service. And so my decision  is that it should compensate Mr S for any lost investment growth  
on his SIPP  funds. I acknowledge that Morgans may feel that the SIPP provider  shares 
some of the blame  here - and it can pursue that matter separately against  the provider if it 
wishes. 
As with the adjudicator, my view is that Mr S will have been caused  upset  when he realised 
that his SIPP  funds hadnt been invested  as planned. As such,  I consider the further 
payment of £200  to reflect this is warranted  here.  
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would now be in 
if his money had been invested as soon as it cleared as cash into the SIPP. Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives 
when he invested.  
what should  Morgans do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  Morgans  must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's SIPP  funds  with their notional  performance,  had 
they been invested in the chosen  funds from the date that the respective investment 
cheques cleared, to the date of Mr Ss transferring  his SIPP funds elsewhere. 
If there  had been a loss, that loss in percentage terms should be applied to Mr Ss 
current SIPP funds. Morgans should pay the resulting  amount  into Mr S's pension 
plan to increase  its value by the total amount of the compensation. The amount paid 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ss income tax rate in retirement  20%. So 
making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Pay to Mr S £200 for the disruption to his retirement planning.
my final decision 
I uphold Mr Ss complaint.  My decision is that Morgans Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Morgans Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Ref: DRN68508426Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
 ..
 
Ref: DRN6850842