K821x#15Complaint
Mr S has complained that National  Westminster Bank Plc is holding him liable  for a loan, 
which he says he never took out.
Background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
NatWest didnt send  any further comments and accepted  my conclusions.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  decision. He referred to factual errors, which he believed  
affected the outcome of his complaint. 
He said the dates for when he was working away from home  are wrong.  He said he told this 
service and NatWest that hed been  away from November 2017 to March 2018, not January 
2018. 
He said he complained to the bank about  the loan in March  2018, not May 2018. He pointed  
out that he received a letter from NatWest dated  15 May 2018,  which  referred to him making 
a complaint on 17 May 2018. He believes this is a vital piece of evidence shows beyond any 
doubt that [he]  first reported the fraud quite some time before May specifically March 2018 
when [he] first came back from working away and became  aware of some fraudulent  activity  
on [his] account.
Mr S has asked  me to reconsider my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  all thats been said 
following my provisional findings,  Im afraid  Ive no reason to reach a different conclusion.  
Ive taken into account Mr Ss comments.  
I understand why its important for him to show he reported the fraud as soon as he could. 
Ive checked the file. There  is conflicting  evidence on when he was working away from 
home. There are notes, which refer to him working  away from home until February 2018 or 
for four months. However, these notes are inconsistent  with what his interpreter told the 
bank - that hed been away for a couple of weeks working in another town  and not the one 
he told us. The banks  own notes  say he returned  home around February 2018.
I apologise for not reflecting the conversations between  Mr S and his son and our 
investigator accurately.  However, as I observed  in my provisional decision, the banks audit 
report shows his business debit card was used  in his hometown and surrounding areas from 
Ref: DRN66008492November 2017  to March 2018. And there are cash withdrawals from ATMs on the street 
where he lives. There are no transactions in the other two towns.
So Im not satisfied he was living away from home. But even if he were, I think its highly 
unlikely he didnt pop in to his home address when he was in the area and on the same 
street.
As for the letter from NatWest, Mr S is quite  right: the letter is dated 15 May 2018.  Yet, it 
refers to the complaint he made  on 17 May 2018. However, I think this is an administrative 
error. Ill explain why.
NatWest sent us a recording of a conversation between  his interpreter and the fraud  
department. The call was made from inside a local branch to NatWests fraud department.  
Mr S was present. The date of that call is 17 May 2018. The interpreter  refers  to a letter  
about April payments, so this conversation  could  not have taken place in March.  
Mr S hasnt mentioned  going into branch twice with an interpreter.
Also, all the banks  internal notes refer to him making a complaint on 17 May 2018. The 
notes say the bank wrote  to him on 22 May 2018. I think  this is what happened and that the 
date of 15 May is a mistake, not the date of the complaint.  
I realise Mr S will think this is a convenient  excuse  but it is a reasonable conclusion  to draw 
from the evidence  before me.
In summary,  I dont think its unreasonable for NatWest to hold Mr S liable for the loan 
because:
his bank account and financial details were  included in the application
his income and outgoings were  included in the application
the loan advance was paid into his account
there was a delay  in transferring the loan advance to Mr Ms account, which  is 
inconsistent with fraudulent activity
there was a delay  in raising a complaint with NatWest
the evidence  shows Mr S was in his hometown when he said he was away
Mr S said he couldnt find an interpreter, yet his children were around to help him
the transfers to Mr M are consistent with large payments, which hed made to Mr M in 
2015 and 2016
he or his son logged on to online banking on 31 January  and wouldve seen the loan 
advance
he received two payments from Mr M, after the loan advance was transferred to him
he kept £300 from the loan advance and used it to fund direct debits
I think its plausible Mr S entered into another business arrangement with Mr M who has 
deceived him or let him down. And I am sorry if this is what happened.  But this isnt a reason 
for Natwest to cancel the loan agreement.
I am sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr S but I hope  the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
Ref: DRN66008493My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66008494complaint
Mr S has complained  that National Westminster  Bank Plc is holding him liable for a loan, which  
he says he never took out.
background
On 4 December 2017, NatWest received an online application for a loan of £9,500 in Mr Ss name. 
The application contained his personal  details, including his income, outgoings  and his bank 
account details. NatWest  paid the loan advance directly into his current account on 5 December 
2017.
On 17 December  2017, the money was transferred to another one of his accounts with NatWest via 
online banking.  This was followed  by a transfer of £8,000 to a Mr M. On 3 January 2018,  a further  
£1,200 was transferred to Mr M.
The remaining £300 was used to fund direct  debits  from Mr Ss account.
Mr S said he was working away from home when the loan was taken  out. He said he found out 
about it when he returned  home  in January 2018. However, he didnt  complain immediately to 
NatWest because he couldnt speak English very well and needed  an interpreter. He eventually  
complained on 17 May 2018.
He told Natwest  he believes his landlord, Mr M, had applied for the loan using his personal details. 
He said he kept his banking information in a personal folder in his bedroom  and that his landlord  
had full access  to the house  he was living in. He told NatWest that Mr M has now disappeared.
He said he isnt good  with online banking  and gets one of his children  to help him when he needs 
to use it.
Mr S asked NatWest to cancel  the loan agreement and stop chasing  him for the repayments.
NatWest decided  this wasnt fraud and that he had applied for the loan because:
    his bank  account and financial details were included  in the application
    his income and outgoings were included in the application
    the loan advance was paid into his account
    he waited five months before raising a complaint. It didnt believe he couldnt  find an 
interpreter because his children were around to help him
    he received two payments from Mr M, after the loan advance was transferred to him
    he kept £300.
As Mr S didnt agree with NatWests decision, he brought his complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold his complaint.  Although  she didnt think  he had applied  for the loan, 
she thought he had been grossly negligent with his banking details, which allowed
Mr M to make the application. She considered it was fair and reasonable, therefore, for
NatWest to hold him liable  for the loan.
Mr S wasnt happy with the investigators view. He has asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
Ref: DRN66008495My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im afraid my review of the evidence has led 
me to the same decision as the investigator but for different  reasons.
The investigator wrote  a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the relevant 
regulations and the evidence. Both Mr S and NatWest have read the investigators view,  so I wont 
repeat every detail here, only those which  form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure 
Mr S that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
Based on the evidence,  there are only two likely  scenarios in this case. They are either that Mr S 
applied for the loan or his landlord, Mr M, did. Even if Mr S were careless with his personal and 
banking details, this is not a relevant consideration. The gross negligence  test doesnt apply  to 
loan applications. So my only task is to decide if Mr S applied for the loan, not whether he was 
grossly negligent.
To reach my decision, Ive considered:
    the application for the loan
    the account the loan monies were paid into.
Ive also taken  into account Mr Ss version of events and his delay  in reporting the fraud.  Ive 
seen the information in the application. It includes Mr Ss full name, date of birth,  bank
account details, income, residential status, current and previous  postcodes.  And I can see
from the bank statement  the loan advance was paid into his account.  So, whoever made this 
application knew they could easily take the money from his account, which they did using his online  
bank account. This means they had access to his log in details and passwords.
Ordinarily, I would expect  only Mr S to know this information  some of it is confidential such as his 
online passwords. Mr S said he kept all these details  in a folder at home  and that his landlord,  Mr 
M, had full access to his home.  He said he was away from November  2017 to January  2018,  giving 
Mr M the opportunity go into his home and look through his papers.
I have to consider whether  this is a plausible explanation.
Unfortunately, I dont think it is. This is because Mr S hasnt been  consistent in his own 
version of events.
Mr S said he wasnt at home from November  2017 to January 2018.  He said he was working and 
staying in another town. But that town is approximately 36 miles from his home and roughly a fifty-
minute drive. It is daily commuting  distance  at least. Even if he had good reasons for staying away 
from home, his business  bank account shows he was spending in his hometown,  throughout 
November 2017 to January 2018 and beyond. And some transactions look like cash  withdrawals 
from an ATM  on his street.
He didnt spend on food,  groceries or essential items while in the other town. I think this is 
unusual.
Mr S told us the account wasnt his but NatWest has provided evidence to show  it was his 
business account.  It wasnt helpful that Mr S denied the account was his. It leads  me to assume 
he is not disclosing everything. Im not satisfied he was living away from home.
Also, he didnt report the loan to NatWest for five months. I appreciate he doesnt speak English 
very well and needed an interpreter but I understand he has children  and, indeed,  that they help 
Ref: DRN66008496him with online banking. He couldve asked one of his children  to go to the bank with him. Im 
not convinced he couldnt  find an interpreter for five months.
The transfers  to Mr M are consistent with large payments, which hed made  to Mr M in 2015 and 
2016 and smaller  payments  in 2017, which were not rental payments. He told us hed paid a 
substantial amount of money to Mr M in the past so that he could purchase some shares in a bank 
but the shares didnt materialise. Its plausible the loan was for another similar arrangement, which 
hasnt worked  out.
In Mr Ms favour  is the IP address used to make the online transfers to Mr M. These were made  
from an IP address outside the UK on 17 December 2017  and 3 January  2018.  Mr S said hes 
never visited the country. I must point out the address covers a region  including two countries. I 
believe Mr S might have  a connection with the other country.
However, his business debit card was used in the UK on from 16 to 4 January  2018.  It looks, on the 
face of it, that Mr M is in two countries at the same time, which is impossible. NatWest cant  explain 
it, other than to say he couldve logged  on to a foreign website. Im not convinced this is what 
happened. I think its more likely he allowed someone else either  to use his debit card or his online 
banking.
In summary,  Im afraid I dont find Mr Ss version  of events to be persuasive or plausible.  He clearly 
has a business relationship  with Mr M. I think its more  likely than not that he applied for the loan, 
perhaps as a business  arrangement with Mr M. It might  be that the deal has fallen through and he 
is now looking  to recover his losses.  I would  like to make  it clear to Mr S that this is a provisional 
decision. I might change it if I
receive any new relevant evidence  or information that he or the bank  sends me.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN6600849