K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to Mrs D and 
the late Mr D. 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the 
complaint  so Ill refer to it as though it was the seller.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Mrs D says the PPI was added without their consent. However it wouldnt be fair for me to 
conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where 
someone has said another  person  or organisation has done  something wrong, fairness  
requires that the person making the allegation  should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something, especially 
when it was such a long time ago. And I can see that documents  were sent to Mr and Mrs D 
setting out the costs  of the PPI, and a direct  debit form was signed to set up the payments 
for the PPI. So I do think its more  likely  Mr and Mrs D were  aware that the PPI was a choice 
at the time, even  if Mrs D doesnt now remember the detail so many years  later.  
So, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly  say the PPI was added  without Mr and Mrs Ds 
consent or willing agreement 
I think St Andrews recommended the PPI to Mrs D and the late Mr D, and this means it had 
a higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds particular circumstances.  However, finding yourself unable to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Ds situation at the time: 
Its likely  Mr and Mrs D were  eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs D received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs D would  need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have 
had for paying  the mortgage  and other  living costs. This all would have put 
Ref: DRN66526852Mr and Mrs D in a more  secure position, if theyd eventually  lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
Mrs D has told us about  medical conditions that she and her late husband suffered 
from at the time the PPI started.  However I dont think this made  the PPI unsuitable.  
Slightly unusually,  this PPI policy didnt say that such pre-existing medical conditions 
were excluded. Mr and Mrs D would still have been covered even if their claim was 
because of those  medical conditions.  And I cant see any other reason they were 
likely to be caught by the terms of the policy. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then have been up to Mr and Mrs D to decide whether they wanted to 
accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
The monthly price of the policy  was shown. So I think Mr and Mrs D would have  understood 
how much  it would cost. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6652685