K822xcomplaint
C complains that National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt  sufficiently 
compensated it for losses arising from a mis-sold  interest rate swap.
background 
In 2002 C bought a holiday park business  and borrowed £650,000 from NatWest.  At the 
same time, it took out an interest rate swap  with NatWest. The swap  had a term of ten years  
and effectively fixed the annual interest rate payable on Cs borrowing at 4% in year one, 
4.75% in year two, and 6.20% in years three to ten.
The sale of the swap was later considered by NatWest as part of a review  agreed with the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), into the way interest rate hedging 
products were sold. Under  this review NatWest  offered to pay C the amount it paid to the 
swap plus interest at 8% simple per year. It also offered to refund some bank fees and 
charges. Part of the offer was that C would be free to submit a further claim for 
consequential losses. C accepted this and NatWest paid C compensation of £146,095.55 in 
2014 to settle  this element.
C then made  its claim for consequential losses. NatWest accepted the claim in part. In 
January 2017  it offered to pay C a total of £55,826.28 for consequential  losses.  C was 
dissatisfied and brought  its complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld  Cs complaint  in part. He concluded that NatWest should  pay a 
greater amount to cover  Cs lost profits, and that interest at 8% simple per year should be 
paid on those losses up to the date the compensation is paid to C. It was also agreed that 
NatWest would pay C a greater amount to cover professional  fees incurred. NatWest 
accepted the adjudicators opinion. Its revised offer for consequential losses,  taking into 
account the adjudicators recommendations, was £221,470.24 plus interest. C remained 
dissatisfied and the matter was passed to me.
I sent C and NatWest my provisional decision on 2 October 2018 explaining why I was 
intending to uphold Cs complaint in part and what I thought fair compensation would be. I 
said that before I made my final decision,  Id consider the parties responses to my 
provisional decision. 
C has sent me detailed  and lengthy submissions explaining why it disagrees with my 
provisional decision. NatWest has not provided  any new comments  in response  to my 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision, 
and for materially the same reasons. Ive explained my reasoning  again  below,  which 
includes some  further  comment to address aspects of Cs response  to my provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN69080342C accepted the basic  redress NatWest offered, which  was based on the idea that C wouldnt 
have taken out the swap if everything had happened in 2002 as it shouldve.  Because  of 
this, I think its fair and reasonable, when deciding  Cs claim for consequential  losses, that I 
do so by considering  what  I think most likely wouldve happened  if C had taken out just the 
loan in 2002, and not the swap.
NatWests basic redress calculation shows that by March 2012, when I understand C made 
its last payment for the swap before it matured, C had paid approximately  £103,814.91 more 
by having the swap. NatWest repaid  this amount  to C in 2014, as well as interest  calculated  
at 8% simple per year,  which was designed  to compensate C for having been deprived,  up 
until that point,  of the extra amount it paid for the swap.
Cs claim for consequential losses, in essence,  is that if it hadnt  paid for the swap,  it 
wouldve better maintained and improved its business, avoided  certain other  costs;  and the 
extra profits couldve  also been reinvested into the business, again increasing its profits and 
value.
Following the recommendation of our adjudicator, NatWest has agreed to pay C for 
consequential losses as follows:
Reason for loss  Amount (£)
C wouldve upgraded six accommodation units in 
2008/2009 but for the swap152,177.86
Colliers valuation fee 6,000.00
Overdraft renewal fee 2,187.00
Account overdraft fees (referral and unpaid items) 670.00
Arrangement fees, incurred in relation to a succession  of 
short term loans, including interest9,680.00
Professional fees C incurred with Frenkels Forensics 
making its claim47,400.00
Whitakers accountant fees 3,355.38
Total 221,470.24 
plus interest  calculated  at 
8% simple per year
C sought to claim a number of other  specific consequential losses  in its initial  claim to 
NatWest, some of which I understand have fallen away.
To decide whether an award is due, beyond what the adjudicator recommended  and 
NatWest has agreed to pay, I need  to look at whether NatWests failures actually caused the 
consequential losses claimed. And if they did, I also need to ask whether its fair to hold 
NatWest responsible for the losses. To do this, Id need to ask whether NatWest could 
reasonably foresee that its failures would result in losses like these. In other  words,  Id need 
to be satisfied that the losses werent  too remote from NatWests failings.
I also need to be mindful  that, if C hadnt  had the swap,  it wouldnt  have  been  possible for C 
to apply the cash it saved more than once; although  I accept that, in theory, C couldve used 
any extra  profit  it generated to reinvest  in the business.
C has sent us detailed and lengthy submissions on the difference  it thinks the cash it 
wouldve saved without  the swap wouldve made  to its business. In summary, its said that 
the swap meant it couldnt adequately  maintain or upgrade some  of its accommodation units,  
Ref: DRN69080343which led to it having to withdraw some  accommodation units  from service   which has led 
to lost profits it wouldve  otherwise realised: more rental income  from better maintained and 
upgraded accommodation; and more income  due to a greater number of guests visiting  its 
other in park facilities. C says it couldve reinvested  these profits to further improve the 
business.
I understand that in 2009 NatWest didnt have an appetite to increase lending to C. C has 
said it therefore tried to refinance  with a different bank with increased borrowing of £150,000,  
but that the swap break cost prevented this. C has said this increase in its borrowing 
wouldve enabled it to finish  its project  to upgrade six units  and to carry out more 
refurbishments. Documentation from the potential new lender has been provided, which 
indicates the swap break cost was around £49,000 at this point. This paperwork indicates 
the potential new lender  was suggesting the possibility  of cancelling  Cs existing swap  with 
NatWest and taking  out new borrowing and a new swap.
I dont think I can say the swap caused C to not go ahead with this refinance. Theres no 
clarity on what the specifics of the deal mightve been even if a swap  break cost wasnt  
payable, and I dont  know whether C wouldve gone ahead  irrespective of the swap. Also this 
refinance, which C says the swap prevented it from realising, seems to have been new 
lending  with a new swap, the very thing its been  agreed C wouldnt have taken out in 2002 
if everything had happened  as it shouldve.  I also think its possible that the swap couldve 
been novated without  a break cost being  payable, if not to the potential new lender C has 
referenced, then to another  lender. Im not convinced C investigated all options  at this point, 
nor therefore  that the swap could be said to be the cause of C not refinancing.
In any event, calculations  show  C wouldve  saved approximately £34,000 by the end of 2008 
if it hadnt had the swap.  And I understand that the cost to complete the upgrades to the six 
particular accommodation  units Cs referred to in 2008/2009 wouldve been  approximately 
£19,000. So C wouldve been  able to afford this without the swap. Its therefore unclear 
whether C wouldve sought refinance  like it did in 2009 if it hadnt had the swap in the first 
place.
NatWest has already offered to compensate C on the basis  that it wouldve  upgraded these 
six accommodation units in 2008/2009. And I agree that it should do so. C appears to have 
had a clear intention to upgrade these units at the time: all six units  appear  to have been 
prepared for upgrade at the end of the 2008  and C had already bought materials needed.  
And as Ive already said, it seems C couldve afforded, without the swap,  to have completed 
this.
NatWest has calculated  the compensation due for this loss as £152,177.86, plus interest.  
This is a significant amount. And I can understand why C argues  it wouldve  invested this 
into the business. However, in calculating this amount,  NatWest  has assumed these 
upgraded units wouldve achieved the same average occupancy  of Cs other 
accommodation. But I dont think its clear that the upgraded units  wouldve attracted extra 
customers, rather than simply spreading the number of customers  C actually achieved  
across more accommodation units. I understand and appreciate that C has made detailed 
submissions around the occupancy rates  and firmly  believes  that the park would have 
attracted extra guests if more accommodation  had been available  but Im just not 
sufficiently convinced by this. So whilst I think NatWests  offer here, taken in the round, is fair 
and reasonable,  I dont  accept its clear that this full amount (£152,177.86) wouldve been 
available to C to reinvest  in the business. Even  if some of it was, it wouldnt have all been 
Ref: DRN69080344available at once.  Ive taken this into account in deciding the difference I think  this wouldve 
made.
It was foreseeable  that without the right maintenance, Cs accommodation could suffer  
significantly. Information from NatWest shows evidence, from when the holiday park was 
valued at the time C bought it in 2002, of rising and penetrating  dampness, rotten boarding,  
an active beetle infestation, and that the flat roofs would need a high level of maintenance 
and usually have  a maximum life of 10 to 15 years.
It appears C decommissioned seven accommodation units in 2010. C has estimated the cost 
of keeping these  units in service at approximately £17,000. This estimate  appears  
reasonable. And the basic redress calculations indicate that by the end of 2009 C wouldve  
saved approximately  £37,000 without the swap (excluding the £19,000 it wouldve already 
spent in 2008/2009 to upgrade the six units described above); and that this wouldve risen  to 
about £59,000 saved by the end of 2010.  So it seems clear  that, without the swap, C most 
likely wouldve had the funds to maintain and avoid decommissioning  these  seven 
accommodation units. I dont think its sufficiently clear that it would have done so though. C 
had been strongly  considering selling the holiday park; it had received offers  that hadnt 
proceeded. Its therefore difficult  to say how committed  C wouldve  been to maintenance at 
that stage. I am also mindful that C has said it wouldve been possible for it to dramatically 
improve its cash flow by selling certain  accommodation units  to private buyers,  which makes 
me think there may have been  ways of funding the maintenance  with the swap,  which C 
didnt opt for. But even  if I accepted that C wouldve completed the maintenance on these 
seven units in 2010 for the reasons C has said it would have, Im not convinced  this wouldve 
generated a material  amount of more  rental  income, as distinguished from simply creating 
more available  units. Im not convinced any loss here would exceed what  NatWest has 
already paid C in interest on the payments it made to the swap.  So I dont make any award 
here.
C has said it decommissioned a further 30 accommodation units from 2012 to 2015.  Its 
estimated the cost of maintenance to have avoided  this as £68,000.
By then, C had already been  transferred to the banks Specialised Relationship 
Management unit (SRM)  in around November/December 2011. Information from NatWest  
records a number of reasons  for this, including:  Declining Turnover/Gross Margin over 5 
years; Market place changing with holiday makers wanting more  for less; Customers 
committed to selling site, have taken as far as possible; units dated/tired; debt  no longer 
serviceable from profits; probable capital repayment holiday required.
Cs borrowing was renegotiated around this time. C claims  that if it hadnt  had to pay for the 
swap and suffered consequential losses, this wouldnt  have been necessary; or the 
renegotiated borrowing wouldve at least been  smaller. Its therefore unhappy with fees 
NatWest charged as a result of this.
C wouldve been in a better  financial position by then without the swap. The basic redress  
calculations indicate  that by the end of 2011 C wouldve saved approximately £80,000 
without the swap  (excluding the £19,000 it wouldve already spent in 2008/2009 to upgrade 
the six units described above); and that this wouldve risen to about  £85,000  by March 2012; 
although these  figures dont  take account  of £17,000  C might  possibly have spent  in 2010 on 
maintenance. It may also have had extra cash from profit generated from upgrading the six 
units in 2008/2009  but its not clear  that wouldve been a significant amount for the reasons 
Ive explained  above, and also because  of the relatively small number of seasons  since  their 
Ref: DRN69080345completion. And like Ive already said, it wouldnt have been possible for C to have applied 
the cash it saved  from the swap more than once  so it couldnt  have  applied  the same cash 
it saved from the swap  to both reduce its borrowing and maintain accommodation units.
Its my understanding that Cs overdraft limit was increased by £95,000  in January 2012. 
NatWest has assumed that almost all of this increase wouldnt have been needed without 
the swap. I think this is reasonable. NatWest has offered to refund C £8,187 for fees it says 
C wouldnt then have  incurred: £6,000  for a Colliers valuation  fee and a £2,187  overdraft 
renewal fee.
NatWest has also assumed that C wouldve  then,  in April/May 2012, used the extra  cash it 
had  including additional income from the upgraded units  in 2008/2009, and the Colliers 
valuation fee, overdraft renewal fee and accountants  fees it wouldnt have paid  to borrow  
less than it did during  a period where it took a succession of short  terms loans with NatWest 
starting from 1 May 2012. C wouldve then, it has calculated, saved a further  £9,680 
because the fees to arrange the borrowing  wouldve been less. Im aware C had said its 
separately pursuing a claim for costs incurred  being  transferred to the banks Global  
Restructuring Group but thats a separate matter  and does  not affect my decision here.
I find NatWests  offer to be fair and reasonable, having reviewed  the basis on which it has 
been calculated,  and taking the circumstances Ive described into account. Im aware 
NatWests calculations here are based on its original presumption  that C wouldve upgraded 
the six units from 2008/2009 at a rate of two units per season, which  is different to the 
updated offer NatWest  has made  in response  to the adjudicators recommendation. But 
bearing in mind what Ive said about  that updated offer already, I still find NatWests  offer 
here, in the round,  to be fair.
Bearing in mind the difficult financial  period C was in, I think its possible C wouldve used 
any cash it had saved  (by not having the swap) to reduce this borrowing. And Im not 
persuaded any extra profit it mightve  generated from the six upgraded units  from 2008/2009  
wouldve been sufficient  or utilised to avoid the decommissioning of 30 more accommodation 
units between 2012 and 2015.
I am aware  that C has said that it considered it made far more sense for it to have 
maximised earnings by keeping accommodation  open than reducing  its bank loan  and that 
there was no requirement to pay off the loan more than the agreed amount, and that interest  
rates were  low so the opportunity  cost of reinvestment in the business far outweighed the 
benefit of marginally  lower  interest  costs.  But again,  Im not sufficiently convinced by this. C 
has referred to an email from C to NatWest  in January 2012 in which C stated The chalet 
roofs are essential,  they are popular  units that are always  let to capacity in the peak weeks 
and that, We will continue running and operating  the park as long as it takes, leaving the 
repairs another year will only make it twice as hard and expensive  to continue with further 
seasons, and lose further income. However,  in the same email C stated that We have held 
back on a lot of these repairs due to the unknown circumstances we have been in with the 
future of the park. Whilst we endeavour with the sale of the park, we cannot  be fool hardy  
and neglect the essential repairs  and renewals to maintain our business. So whilst I accept, 
at least by this stage, that there was a wish by C to attend to repairs, Im mindful that C had 
been transferred  to SRM. C argues  that this wouldnt have happened if it hadnt had the 
swap; but Im not persuaded by this  Im not convinced the position wouldve differed 
sufficiently, if C hadnt  had the swap, for it to have  avoided referral to SRM. I think  this 
wouldve affected Cs options  and I can see from an email  in January 2012, this time from 
Ref: DRN69080346NatWest to C, that NatWest was concerned  that C wouldnt  get what it spent on its 
accommodation back. 
Ive also thought about the possibility that C mightve upgraded (and not simply maintained)  
further units beyond  those in 2008/2009. But for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not 
convinced C wouldve done  this or that the swap could be said to have  caused  it to not do 
so.
Im aware C had also sought to claim for lost profits from other  park facilities,  and for lost 
capital value because  it couldnt afford to maintain and upgrade its units. Its difficult to know  
the extra custom C mightve benefited  from if things  had happened as Ive described above.  
However, bearing in mind  what Ive said with regards to the six upgraded units in 2008/2009 
and maintenance  in 2010, I think its most likely  that any loss of profits C mightve suffered 
as a result  of reduced custom at its other  facilities  at the park,  and any possible loss of 
capital value, is adequately compensated for by the 8% simple interest NatWest has already  
paid on the swap  payments  C made.
Ive also considered what C has said about  it being  subject to a considerable number of 
negative reviews by guests as a result of cash flow pressures cause by the swap.  Ive 
carefully reviewed what Cs said about this. But Im not convinced  C upgrading the six units  
in 2008/2009 wouldve made a significant  impact  on this. And the only other work Ive 
concluded C mightve completed, but for the swap, is maintenance in 2010   but again Im 
not convinced  this wouldve made  a significant impact on the negative  reviews C was 
receiving.
I am aware  that in its response to my provisional  decision  C has also asked for a further 
award of £17,000  to be made for further  costs  incurred  with Frenkels Forensics  (in addition  
to the £47,400 already referenced). But I dont accept this is warranted. NatWest  has already 
offered to pay C substantial professional fees its incurred  in bringing its claim. But bringing a 
complaint is free, and I think designed in a way that professional representation isnt 
necessary. So although  I acknowledge Cs consequential loss claim is complicated, and I 
can understand why it may have wanted assistance  bringing it, I cant say that NatWests  
offer of £47,400  in this respect is unfair  or that it should be increased further.
Overall, therefore, this is a complicated  case and its not possible to be certain  exactly about 
what mightve happened if C hadnt taken  out the swap.  Ive therefore had to decide what  I 
think would  have most likely happened but for the swap. Its not straightforward,  and I 
sympathise with Cs position.  But taking  everything  into account, and for the reasons 
explained above, Im satisfied  that NatWests updated offer,  made following our adjudicators 
recommendations on this case, represents  overall and in the round  a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
fair compensation
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider fair compensation exceeds  £150,000 I may recommend the financial business to 
pay the balance.  This recommendation wont be part of my determination  or award.  It wont 
bind the financial  business. Itd be unlikely  that C can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance.  C may want to consider  getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  my final decision.
Ref: DRN69080347the specified steps
NatWest should  pay C:
A.£152,177.86  to reflect losses from it not upgrading six accommodation units in 
2008/2009
B.£6,000 to refund the Colliers valuation fee
C.£2,187 to refund the overdraft renewal fee
D.£670 to refund account overdraft fees
E.£9,680 to refund arrangements fees incurred in relation to a succession  of short 
terms loans plus interest
F.£47,400 to refund professional fees C has incurred with Frenkels Forensics
G.£3,355.38  to refund Whitakers accountant  fees
H.Interest calculated at 8% simple per year* on each  on the above items from the date 
the loss was incurred to the date of settlement
*If NatWest believes its legally required to deduct tax from this interest, it should send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment. C may then be able to reclaim  any tax overpaid from 
HM Revenue & Customs, depending on the circumstances.
my final decision
determination and award: I uphold Cs complaint in part. I consider that fair compensation 
requires National Westminster Bank Plc to carry out the steps specified above. I order it to 
do this  up to a maximum financial effect of £150,000 plus interest and/or costs.
recommendation: If the financial  effect  of the award  exceeds £150,000, I recommend 
National Westminster Bank Plc still carries out in full the steps  I specify.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6908034