K820x#14Complaint
Ms Js complained about the service she received from St Andrews  Insurance Plc as her 
home insurance provider.  
For ease reference  to St Andrews will also include its agents. 
Background
Ms J has a home  insurance  policy that also provides home emergency cover.  However the 
home insurance and home emergency cover  are provided by different insurers. 
Ms J contacted her home emergency  insurer  after an escape  of foul water  on 21 April 2017. 
The contractors working on behalf of her home  emergency insurer suggested she call         
St Andrews,  as her home insurance  provider, to remove the decking in order to provide 
access to the drains. Ms J contacted St Andrews on 8 May to let it know  about the claim.
A couple of weeks later the contractors decided  the drain could be accessed without lifting 
the decking. The contractor identified the blockage and removed it only for the drains to 
become blocked  again. The contractor said the pipes had cracked and debris  had become 
caught on it, leading  to the escape  of water. 
St Andrews  appointed a claims consultant to look into Ms Js claim.   
Ms J was unhappy with the service she received from St Andrews. She said it had taken too 
long to sort things out and she was unhappy  with the questions the claims consultant  asked. 
She said hed also mixed up claims between her and another  customer  in the same area. 
St Andrews  said it was unable to deal with the claim until her home  emergency  insurer  had 
identified the leak. So it didnt think the delays were its fault.  It said the claims consultant  had 
asked standard  questions  but accepted hed mixed up claims. It said it hasnt  provided  as 
good a service to Ms J as she should  have  expected. So offered her £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  it had caused.  
Ms J didnt think this was enough  and brought her complaint  to us. Our investigator  looked 
into things and thought the offer of £150 was enough to put things right. Ms J didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said St Andrews  had agreed  to facilitate a 
visit to her property between its builder and the home emergency insurers contractor. But 
every time the contractor  visited  the builder wasnt  there.  She said this led to a delay of 
around six weeks which meant foul water continued  to leak into her kitchen during that time. 
She also said St Andrews  initially turned down her claim  based on incorrect information.
Before making a decision I asked St Andrews to provide  more  information to show what 
actions it had taken  between 8 May, when Ms J contacted it, and 26 May when the home 
emergency insurer said it didnt need  the decking  removing. 
I let both Ms J and St Andrews know that I thought  St Andrews had caused a delay of 
around a week during  that time. But when considering the amount of compensation it had 
paid overall, I thought  Ms J had been fairly  compensated.
Ref: DRN62767932Ms J said shed expected  her home  emergency insurer  to have contacted St Andrews 
sooner. So she thought  it should have known it needed to help before 8 May. She also didnt 
think it worked closely enough with her home  emergency insurer to sort things out. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im satisfied St Andrews 
has made a fair and reasonable  offer to put things  right. 
Ms J has complained about St Andrews as her home insurer as well as making a separate 
complaint about  her home emergency  insurer which is a different business. In this decision I 
can only comment on things St Andrews is responsible for and what  it might, or might not, 
have done wrong.  I cant comment on the actions of the home emergency insurer  or the 
home emergency insurers agents as thats been dealt with separately. In this decision Im 
only considering  what happened up to the final response date of 19 August 2017. That 
means Im not going to comment on the outcome of the claim itself. 
Ms J thought  her home emergency  insurer  would  have contacted St Andrews about her 
claim earlier. But I can see from St Andrews claim notes that the first contact it had with     
Ms J was on 8 May. And whether the home  emergency insurer should  have  contacted        
St Andrews  sooner isnt something I can comment  on here, as thats not its responsibility. 
Im satisfied St Andrews  was made  aware  of Ms Js claim  on 8 May 2017. And it issued its 
final response letter on 19 August 2017.  So Ive considered whether St Andrews caused  an 
unnecessary delay during that time.
I can see from its claim notes St Andrews appointed builders as soon as Ms J reported  the 
claim. The builders tried to contact  Ms J a couple  of days  later but didnt  get hold of her until 
15 May. It seems there was some delay between  15 May and 22 May where the builders 
thought they needed  to arrange the survey instead of lifting  the decking. This was resolved 
on 23 May and on 26 May the home  emergency insurers  contractor  confirmed it didnt need 
the builders to lift the decking. There seems to have been an unnecessary  delay here that I 
accept would have  caused Ms J distress and inconvenience. 
St Andrews  noted  that it called Ms J on 7 June to find out if the home emergency insurer 
had made  progress. It thought the blockage  had been removed but on 14 June it was 
informed that there was still a leak. The home  emergency contractor visited Ms Js home on 
16 June and I can see St Andrews tried to call Ms J on 27 June to make  an appointment for 
the claims consultant.  Ms J called back on 3 July and agreed an appointment for 5 July. The 
claim notes  say this was then rearranged by Ms J for 7 July due to her work commitments.  
I can see St Andrews chased  up the home  emergency report  on 3 July and on 4 July the 
home emergency insurer said it was still waiting for a quote to find out whether further work 
was needed. On 11 July the home  insurer provided  the contractors report that said the drain  
was blocked by wipes and other debris. The home insurer  said the contractor didnt provide 
a quote because the blockage had been  caused  by misuse. 
On 2 August  St Andrews  offered Ms J a cash settlement for the escape of water  claim but 
said accidental damage wasnt  covered  as the blockage was caused by wipes.  I understand 
Ms Js frustration  at communication between the insurers but I can see St Andrews chased 
the home emergency insurer on a number of occasions. Ive also seen  a copy of the report  
Ref: DRN62767933the contractor provided which said the blockage was caused  by wipes so it seems 
reasonable for it to have acted on that information at the time. 
Ms J complained to St Andrews at the beginning of August and explained why she thought 
the report was wrong. She said she didnt use wipes and the contractor had told her the 
material causing the blockage was speculation. Im pleased to see that St Andrews 
reviewed its decision and entered into further  discussion  with Ms J about this.  
Its usual for insurers to ask questions  about a policyholders claims history when looking into 
a claim.  However St Andrews accepted it mixed up claims and asked Ms J about  claims that 
werent hers. I accept  this would have caused  her distress and a lack of confidence as the 
claims consultant didnt have the correct information. 
When considering  an amount  of compensation for distress  and inconvenience  I dont award  
individual amounts for each thing thats happened. Instead, I look to see if a business has 
made a fair and reasonable offer to compensate for the overall  distress  and inconvenience.  
St Andrews  has already  offered  Ms J £150. And when considering the overall  unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience Im satisfied  this is a fair and reasonable amount so Im not 
going to ask St Andrews to increase this. 
My final decision
I understand St Andrews Insurance Plc has offered Ms J £150 compensation. I conclude  
this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances so my final decision is that St Andrews 
Insurance Plc should pay Ms J £150  compensation for her distress and inconvenience  if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6276793