K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC rejected her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a holiday apartment booking.
 
background
Ms W booked an apartment overseas and on arrival she says she discovered it was dirty, 
mouldy, smelled of urine and damp. Several items such as the fridge  and kettle were also 
broken or unusable. She contacted the owner who offered  to send round a technician.  
However, she rejected  this offer as she considered the state of the apartment  to be so bad 
as to require more than a visit from a technician to remedy the problems. She and her 
husband moved out. 
She made a claim under section 75, but Tesco rejected this and said the merchant had 
offered to address the problem and Ms W had failed  to let it do so. She brought a complaint 
to this service which was considered by one of our investigators who recommended  it be 
upheld. 
He said the photographs and email  exchanges between Ms W and the merchant suggested 
there was no dispute as to the level of cleanliness and the state of the apartment. He 
thought this was supported by the offer to send a technician  out to rectify the problems. He 
thought there had been a breach of contract as the goods didnt conform  to the contract and 
therefore Ms W had a claim under Section 75.
He didnt believe a visit from a technician would have been  sufficient  to rectify the issues  or 
made the apartment habitable. He thought the apartment was vastly different to the one 
advertised and he was satisfied there had been  a breach of contract  based  on the evidence 
supplied. He suggested Tesco rework  Ms Ws credit card account  as if the transaction  hadnt 
taken place and pay her £150 compensation.
Tesco didnt  agree and said Ms W received the apartment she had booked and had chosen 
to leave. It argued the issue  of cleanliness was subjective and mould in a shower didnt 
render it unusable.  It didnt consider that either a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
was clear. It added that the offer to send out a technician wasnt  an admission of a fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Ref: DRN60541612It is not disputed  there is an unbroken debtor, credit supplier link and so the issue I have to 
consider is whether there  was a clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Tesco has taken the view that cleanliness is a subjective matter. I believe that is an 
oversimplification. Mould in a shower  or a fridge  is not a subjective issue.  It is matter of fact 
as demonstrated  by the photographs supplied by Ms W. There was mould  in the apartment. 
Tesco says one can use a shower even if it mouldy.  That is true though  there are health  and 
safety risks and I am not sure it would recommend that one of its customers  take such a risk. 
Nor do I think it reasonable for a consumer to accept a low standard  of cleanliness  in a 
property which they are due to spend several  days.  The marketing material  I have seen is far 
removed from the state encountered by Ms W and her husband.  Although it is impossible to 
evidence the smell of damp and urine I have  no reason to doubt Ms Ws claim given the 
accuracy of her other  claims.
I can also understand why she chose to decline the offer to send a technician round.  If, say 
there had been  faulty fridge  or toaster then I would have expected  her to accept an offer to 
have it fixed. But when an apartment is in a poor sate of cleanliness I would expect the 
remedy to take too long and therefore  disrupt the holiday. The apartment should have been 
of an acceptable  standard  on arrival  and waiting for it to be deep cleaned after they arrived  is 
unreasonable. Therefore I believe this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
 Rework the credit card as if the transaction  hadn't taken place.
 Pay Ms W £150  in compensation for the trouble and upset she encountered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6054161