K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1987 and 1992. Mr and Mrs J say Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold them  the 
PPI policies. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
1987 sale
Mr and Mrs J say that they didnt know they had signed for the PPI to be added  to their 
mortgage account. Theyve also said that it was sold during a meeting in branch, although 
later have said they cant remember where it took place. CBS say that the policy was sold 
through a postal application which took place  after Mr and Mrs J had been approved for and 
received their mortgage offer of advance. And theyve given me a copy  of the offer of 
advance and completed PPI application  form - so I think  what theyve said is right. But its 
completely understandable why Mr and Mrs Js recollections around the sale of the PPI 
might not be clear as the sale took place  over 30 years ago.
Having reviewed the PPI application form I can see that Mr J has completed his personal 
details including  the amount of cover required and signed the form requesting  the PPI cover. 
Its dated over a month after I can see he and Mrs J were  sent their mortgage advance offer.
So I think Mr and Mrs J were aware at the time that they were buying  the PPI and that they 
chose to take it - knowing they didnt have to. 
1992 transfer of cover
As I understand it, in 1992 CBS changed the insurer of their PPI policies. They say existing 
PPI customers  were  sent a transfer of cover application form which needed to be 
completed if they wanted to continue with PPI cover.  I dont have a copy  of the one that 
Mr and Mrs J completed  (which I dont find surprising as the sale was a long time ago and 
businesses arent  required to keep documents indefinitely) but I do have an example of the 
form. Considering Mr and Mrs Js cover did transfer  over to the new insurer,  I think  its likely 
they did complete  an application form the same  as or similar to the one Ive seen. So again, I 
think Mr and Mrs J were aware  at the time that they were buying the PPI and that they chose 
to take it - knowing they didnt have to.
And I can see from internal records provided  that Mr J called his PPI insurer on a few 
occasions with queries  - so Im satisfied he did know he had PPI. 
As both of these policies  seem to have been applied for through  postal applications I dont 
think that CBS gave any advice to Mr and Mrs J to take them out (as I dont think they would 
have had any contact  with CBS when completing the forms). So CBS didnt have to check  if 
Ref: DRN61238912the PPI was right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs J got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information CBS gave Mr and Mrs J about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. The policies covered Mr J only and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances in 
both 1987 and 1992 it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on either PPI policy - so they would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mr and Mrs J off taking out the cover. 
Which means CBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But CBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because: 
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premiums) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because  CBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, CBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
CBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premiums. CBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs J any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
CBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs J the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI policies. CBS 
should also pay Mr and Mrs J 8%* simple interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs J can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Coventry Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61238913
Ref: DRN6123891