K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the way Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco)  have  dealt with a claim 
made against her motor  insurance policy.
background
In February 2017,  Mrs S attempted to drive past a refuse collection vehicle that was working 
on behalf of the council.  She says the driver of the vehicle stopped  her from getting past and 
punched the bonnet  of her car. Mrs S let the council and Tesco  know about what  happened 
 and then made a claim on her motor insurance  policy for the damage to the bonnet of her 
car.
Tesco agreed to pay the claim, it also waived the cost of the excess  for Mrs S, this would 
have normally been £150. Tesco went to the councils insurer to reclaim the cost of repairing 
the bonnet, as it thought  this insurer was liable to pay the claim.
The councils insurer didnt think all the damage  repaired on the bonnet  was caused as a 
result of the incident,  and therefore agreed to pay around 20% of the cost of the repairs. 
Tesco tried to dispute this, but after legal advice, Tesco  decided  that it wouldnt try to reclaim 
the additional cost of the repairs through court proceedings. 
Because Tesco couldnt reclaim the full cost of the repair,  it recorded the outcome of the 
claim as a fault. But Mrs S wasnt happy  with this. She says that when she has looked for 
new insurance, the cost of her premiums increased because  of this. Tesco didnt uphold 
Mrs Ss complaint about how the claim was recorded. But it did notice Mrs S hadnt received 
the level of service it would have expected  and so it offered her £100 compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt  think that Tesco had done anything  wrong.  Mrs S didnt agree with our 
adjudicators opinion. She said she felt that the fault issue was a technical  matter and that 
she has been unfairly impacted by this. Shes also said that she thinks  it is standard  
procedure where  damage  has been caused  to part of the bonnet from an incident, the whole  
of the bonnet should be repaired  regardless of other damage that may need repairing 
arising from a different  incident.
Because neither party can agree on a fair way to settle this dispute, the case  has been 
passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. Ill explain  why below.
When Mrs S reported the damage to her bonnet  to Tesco,  it accepted  the claim and agreed 
to repair  the damage  to the bonnet  this isnt in dispute. Tesco then repaired the damage to 
the car and attempted to reclaim  the cost of doing  so from the councils insurer.
It isnt my role to determine who was liable for the damage caused to Mrs Ss car; that would 
be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding is whether Tesco  has acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt  with the claim  fairly.  
Ref: DRN65063872In line with most insurers, the policy says that Tesco can take over the settlement of the 
claim. So it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That might  mean  Tesco makes 
a decision Mrs S disagrees with, as has happened here. 
Mrs S thinks  that the whole of the bonnet would have been repaired  anyway,  but it is 
possible for just areas to be repaired.  Tesco repaired the whole bonnet  because  it says 
Mrs S said there was no pre-accident damage  to her bonnet. The councils insurer later saw 
CCTV footage  of the incident and thought it was only liable for 20% of the damage.  Tesco  
had already carried out the repairs at this point, and was unable  to recover the additional 
80% of the cost.  And so the claim was recorded  as fault,  as it couldnt recover  all costs.
The policy allows  Tesco  to make such a decision. I dont find it was wrong  of Tesco  to settle  
the claim as it did. And how the cost of the repairs is settled  is ultimately for Tesco to decide. 
Mrs Ss claim was recorded as fault. But this doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs S was at 
fault for the incident. This is a term used across  the insurance sector  for when an insurer  
hasnt been able to recover the full amount of the claim  as it hasnt in this case.  And so I 
dont think it was wrong of Tesco to do this. 
Having looked  at all the information  available to me, I think  Tesco did attempt to recover the 
full cost of the repairs from the councils insurer. Ive seen that when  coming to its decision  to 
settle the claim, it used the evidence  available to it and also sought legal advice on what  to. 
So I think it has acted fairly when settling and recording the claim. Based on everything Ive 
said above, Im not going to ask Tesco to do anything more  for Mrs S. 
But I think Tesco ought to allow Mrs S to buy back the claim if she wants  to. This means that 
Mrs S pays  the difference between what Tesco has paid out for the repairs  and what  it has 
reclaimed from the councils insurer. If Mrs S decides to do this, then how the claim has 
been recorded should be changed from fault to non-fault.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6506387