K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined a claim he made on his 
buildings and contents policy following a burglary.
When I refer to AXA Im also referring to any of their appointed representatives.  
background
Mr G had bought  a new house  (Ill call this house B) and was in the process of selling his old 
house (Ill call this house  A), when he discovered  house B had been burgled in early     
March 2018. He notified AXA of it but it was some  time before AXA could speak to Mr G, as 
he was out of the country for a while. 
When Mr G had returned, AXA appointed an expert to visit him and ask him about the theft. 
Following their investigation, AXA declined Mr Gs claim. They  said that Mr G had 
transferred the majority of his contents to house  B prior to the theft occurring. Mr G hadnt 
changed his policy across to house  B so it wasnt the address  the policy insured. His policy  
only covered items that were temporarily  removed from house  A, which  was the address the 
policy insured. As AXA didnt feel that the items  had been temporarily  removed from     
house A, they didnt accept the claim.  
Mr G complained to AXA.  He said that house B had been insured as a holiday home and 
wasnt his permanent address. So he felt the items in there had only been temporarily 
removed from house A. AXA didnt agree. They said that Mr Gs statement to their expert 
explained house B had been bought in mid-February 2018 and the majority of Mr Gs 
contents had been moved  into the house  the week after the purchase.  AXA said there  was 
no intention from Mr G to return the contents  to house A, so there  was no cover in place. 
Mr G wasnt happy with AXAs decision so brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that Mr Gs policy  covered  him for loss 
caused within house A or boundaries of house A, as defined by his insurance policy,  or for 
items that were temporarily removed from house A. And she didnt think  the items had been 
removed temporarily. She felt AXA were reasonable in saying it was Mr Gs intention to 
leave the items that had been  moved  where they were, had they not been stolen.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that house  A was still his main residence and the items had been 
temporarily removed to house B while his wife was arranging  what  to take on a work trip 
abroad. He told our investigator that he had every intention of bringing the items back to 
house A, but had forgotten to do so. He also said that hed still had cleaners at house A, had 
maintained the lawn and used it for the internet and broadband, which  proved he was still 
living at that address permanently.
As Mr G didnt  agree its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking AXA to 
do anything. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN68585662Mr Gs contents  are covered in his home. The definition of Home in Mr Gs insurance  policy  
is:
The private residence shown in your schedule including its garages and outbuildings if 
they form part of the property.
The private residence shown in Mr Gs schedule is house A. 
The policy also confirms what is covered for loss and accidental damage.  It says:
Loss or damage including  accidental damage to you or your familys contents while they 
are in the home  or within the boundaries of the land belonging to the home or while 
temporarily removed anywhere in the world.
AXA have declined Mr Gs claim as they dont believe  the items have been  temporarily  
removed from house A. Its now for me to decide if I think  AXA have acted reasonably  in 
declining Mr Gs claim for that reason. And I think they have in this case.
In the witness statement  provided to AXA in July 2018, Mr G confirms  that him and his wife 
moved into house B on 19/20 February 2018.  He also confirms  that the majority of his 
contents from house A (around 70%) were moved  at the same time, along with his wifes 
contents that had been  in storage since she sold her own house in 2017. The contents  
moved from house A included beds, sofas and chairs as well as all Mr Gs and his wifes 
jewellery and watches. Mr G said that they didnt leave any jewellery or watches at house A 
as they were due to be living  permanently at house B from the week commencing               
19 February 2018.
Based on what Ive seen  and Mr Gs initial statement, I think  Mr G bought  house B to be his 
new house. Im satisfied that he transferred  all of his and his wifes belongings with the 
intention of them remaining at house B. This is supported by Mr Gs signed witness 
statement in July 2018, which I find to be the most  persuasive piece of evidence  here.  
I appreciate that Mr G has raised several points to try and show that house A continued to 
be his permanent address. But the question of what was and wasnt  Mr Gs permanent  
address isnt relevant to AXAs decision to decline the claim. The question  is whether or not 
Mr G had temporarily removed the items from house  A, which is the definition of Home  
according to his policy. And I think the evidence shows  that the items werent temporarily  
removed. They were  moved to house B and would be remaining there  while house A was 
sold.
So as there is no cover that applies to the stolen  items, I wont be asking AXA to do 
anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Ref: DRN68585663Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6858566