K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1999 and 2005. Mr and Mrs B say The Mortgage  Business Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
I issued a provisional decision saying I wasnt planning to uphold  this complaint. Neither Mr 
and Mrs B nor The Mortgage Business provided any additional  comments  or evidence.  So 
this final decision is in line with my provisional  decision. 
my findings
sale of PPI in 1999
The Mortgage Business sold PPI to Mr and Mrs B at the same time as they took out their 
mortgage. We cant look at the complaint  about  how this was sold because  the jurisdiction of 
this service does not cover the sale of PPI by The Mortgage Business at that time.
This means  I cant make any decision on the sale of PPI in 1999.
Sale of PPI in 2005
In 2005 the original PPI lapsed  and Mr and Mrs B chose to take out a new policy. This had 
the benefit of being treated as continuous  cover, so no new exclusions applied  such as for 
any medical conditions  that may have arisen between 1999 and 2005.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The Mortgage Business wrote  to Mr and Mrs B to tell them about their original policy 
lapsing, and inviting them to apply  for the new policy.  Mr and Mrs B called  up to take out 
the new policy,  and chose how the benefit  was split between them. So I think The 
Mortgage Business made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it.
The Mortgage Business recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that 
the PPI was right for them   and based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for it. While they had some 
sick pay the PPI wouldve  paid their mortgage  for up to 12 months if theyd made a 
successful claim.
Its possible the information The Mortgage  Business  gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it wouldve  been  useful  for them  if something  
went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put them  off taking it.
Ref: DRN64310402Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have said - including what theyve said about 
being made redundant but not claiming. But these points dont change my decision. The 
evidence doesnt  suggest to me that the PPI was mis-sold. If they wish to enquire about  
making a retrospective  claim  they should  contact  the insurers.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So The Mortgage Business doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But The Mortgage Business has already offered 
to give Mr and Mrs B back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it needs to do anything 
more. I understand The Mortgage Business has already paid this to Mr and Mrs B. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019. 
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6431040