K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Accredited  Insurance  (Europe) Ltd has declined to pay his claim on his 
commercial motor insurance policy following the theft of his van. He wants  it to pay the 
claim. 
background
Mr Ts van was stolen  and he made  a claim.  But Accredited Insurance  then found that he 
wasnt the vans registered keeper. The vans registration certificate, the V5, was in his 
fathers name. It said it wouldnt have offered cover  if it had known this. So it cancelled the 
policy from the start (voided it), declined  the claim and refunded Mr Ts premiums.  But Mr T 
was unhappy  with this. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Mr T 
had been asked a clear  question about  the vans registered keeper when he took out the 
policy. She thought  hed answered this question incorrectly. She thought Accredited 
Insurance wouldnt have offered cover if hed answered the question correctly. So she 
thought it was entitled to void the policy and decline the claim.
Mr T replied that he was the only user, the insured driver and owner  of the van. He said hed 
answered the question truthfully as he didnt know his fathers  name was on the V5 
certificate. He said he intended to change the V5 into his name. He thought the question  
asked was unclear.  He didnt think the registered keeper would have an impact on 
insurance. And he asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come  to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T said he was the vans only user and its owner  as he had a receipt  for its purchase.  He 
said he wasnt asked a clear question about the vans registered keeper. And he thought  this 
shouldnt make any difference  to his claim.
As the investigator  has explained, where a complaint arises from misrepresentation of 
information important  to an insurer, we take into account the relevant legislation.  We look to 
see that it asked  a clear  question when the policy was taken out. We check that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered. And we check whether the 
informant has acted  carelessly or deliberately  in making the misrepresentation.
 
Mr T took out his policy through  an online comparison site. He was then asked Are you (or 
will you be) the registered  keeper and legal owner? He was advised that if he was unsure 
about who was the registered keeper, he should check the log book (V5). He was told this 
wasnt necessarily the same as the legal owner. Mr T answered the question yes.
I think this is a common question asked by insurers. And I think  it was clear  as it explained 
what Mr T should  check to provide the correct answer. The will you be phrase refers to 
consumers intending  to buy a vehicle. And the log book has Mr Ts father  as the registered  
keeper of the van.
Ref: DRN64332212I think there are some contradictions  in what Mr T has told us about the ownership of the 
van. Mr T told us that his father had bought  the van on his behalf  and hed later bought the 
van from him, paying cash.  But the receipt  that Mr T has provided  has him as buying the van 
from its previous owner. Mr T hasnt been  able to provide any evidence,  such  as a 
withdrawal from his account, to show that hed paid his father for the van. Mr T didnt insure 
the van until a month  after the date of the purchase  receipt. He told us that hed not got 
round to changing the V5 but he also told us that he didnt know  his fathers name was on 
the V5. 
But, nevertheless,  Mr T had answered  that he was the vans registered keeper and legal 
owner. But his fathers name was on the V5 as the registered keeper when the van was 
stolen three  months  later. 
Accredited Insurance has shown us evidence from its underwriting  guide  that it wouldnt 
have offered cover if it had known that Mr T wasnt the vans registered keeper. Mr T has 
asked how this is relevant  to his insurance. But I think its for insurers to decide what risks 
they are prepared to cover. I think Accredited Insurance  asked  Mr T a clear  question about 
this and so I think  it was for him to take reasonable care in answering it correctly. And I dont 
think Mr T did this. 
So I think that, under the relevant legislation, Accredited Insurance was entitled to void the 
policy as it wouldnt have  offered cover  if Mr T had answered the question  correctly. And I 
think it was then entitled to decline the claim as no cover was in place. Accredited Insurance  
has refunded Mr Ts premiums, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
dont require it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6433221