K821x#15complaint
Ms J is unhappy with her accidental damage insurer,  One Insurance  Limited,  because  it 
declined her claim made after her kitchen  cupboard  fell off the wall, breaking  itself as well 
as, its contents and damaging the kitchen  floor.
background
In May 2018  Ms J was in her kitchen putting some  china away in the wall cupboard  when 
the cupboard  fell down, smashing itself and the contents on the floor. The floor tiles were 
damaged. Ms J was shocked but unhurt. She made a claim to One Insurance.
One Insurance sent an assessor to look at the damage. It thought  the cupboard had fallen 
due to wear and tear of a bracket that had failed gradually over time. It said its policy 
excluded wear and tear but it might consider  covering  the contents that were inside and 
which broke at the time of the loss. Ms J sent it details of the contents.
One Insurance then wrote  to Ms J and said her whole claim was declined. This it said was 
because, in its view, all the damage  had been  caused by wear  and tear (of the bracket).
Ms J complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that it might be reasonable for One Insurance  to decline liability  for the 
cupboard itself. But she felt it should  cover the claim for damaged  contents  and floor tiles. 
She also felt that Ms J had been  misled  prior to the point of decline about what One 
Insurance was prepared  to do. She felt this had caused Ms J some upset and said it should  
pay her £200 compensation.
Ms J was satisfied by our findings. One Insurance  wasnt. It said that all the damage 
stemmed from the worn bracket.  And as its policy doesnt cover damage  caused by wear  
and tear its decline had been fair and reasonable.
The complaint was passed  to me and I felt One Insurance  should  be dealing with Ms Js 
claim for the cupboard, its contents  and the floor, and pay her £250 compensation. I issued 
a provisional decision  in which I said:
my provisional findings
Many policies carry exclusions  to cover for anything which occurs gradually,  including  wear 
and tear. Terms like this mean, when following strictly what  the policy says, that any 
damaged caused  by wear and tear wont be covered.
But this service doesnt always find it fair and reasonable  for insurers  to make claim 
decisions based solely on a strict consideration of the terms. Not when doing so creates an 
unfair outcome.
Regarding the term in question; the point of it really  is to protect the insurer  from damage 
which the policyholder could reasonable have  avoided, stopped or mitigated in some  way. 
This service has a long-standing  approach to terms like this. Essentially, we wont  allow an 
insurer to rely on them  to decline a claim if the policyholder was reasonably  unaware that 
there was a problem  on-going that was likely to cause damage.
Ive no reason to think that Ms J knew, or shouldve known, that the bracket holding up her 
Ref: DRN62146542kitchen cupboard was failing.  I dont think shed have continued putting items in it if that had 
been the case. And Ive seen no evidence or consideration from One Insurances assessor  
that might  make  me think Ms J shouldve been  aware there was a problem.
I also note from Ms Js description of the event that she suffered genuine  shock  and fear 
when the cupboard fell. And I know she was afraid  to go into the kitchen  for a time 
afterwards. So Im satisfied that Ms J didnt know beforehand and had no reason to think 
there was a problem.  Therefore, in line with our standard approach, Im satisfied that One 
Insurance should settle Ms Js whole  claim  for the damaged cupboard, contents and floor 
tiles.
I see from the file that there may be some issue with matching items, perhaps with both the 
floor tiles and kitchen cupboards. If items cant  be repaired  and in replacing them  items  
cant be matched then One Insurance will have to provide suitable  compensation to Ms J 
for that lack of match. On occasion we might find that suitable compensation equates to the 
insurer paying entirely for the cost of replacing  the damaged item, whilst paying 50% 
towards the cost of replacing the undamaged  but matching ones. But each case is 
considered on its own merits.  As Im not, at this stage, considering what  the settlement 
should be that One Insurance  must  make, only that it must make one, if Ms J is unhappy 
with the outcome once it settles her claim,  she will be able to make  a further complaint.
I cant require One Insurance  to compensate Ms J for the upset she suffered following the 
incident due to the shock of what happened. But I think One Insurance didnt handle  this 
claim well and it shouldnt have declined  it. I think its poor handling and decline caused 
Ms J further distress  and inconvenience. Having considered everything I think it should  pay 
her £250  compensation.
One Insurance confirmed it had received my findings. It didnt provide any comment on or 
objection to them. Ms J said she was largely  pleased  with my findings. She also told us that 
she found a replacement cupboard which she painted  to match the remaining kitchen. She 
hasnt replaced  the contents or fixed the floor.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As One Insurance  didnt  raise any objection Ive no reason  to move away from my 
provisional findings. Ms Js update means  that One Insurance  will have to take into account 
the work  shes undertaken when it assesses  settlement for her claim. Im not sure what  
proof Ms J has of her outlay for the work but Id expect One Insurance  to give fair 
consideration to what she can reasonably show was spent reinstating the kitchen units. Id 
also expect it to take into account  our approach to matching sets, as mentioned 
provisionally. Itll still have  to assess the claim  settlement for the contents and floor.
Im also still satisfied with what I said regarding compensation. In my view,  £250 fairly and 
reasonably needs to be paid.
My provisional findings are now those of this, my final decision. 
Ref: DRN62146543my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require One Insurance Limited to settle Ms Js claim for the 
damaged cupboard, broken contents  and damaged floor tiles. I also intend to require it to 
pay Ms J £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6214654