K821x#15complaint
Mr T complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr T says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny.
background
We now know that Mr T took out 9 instalment loans from Sunny between October 2016 and 
June 2017. Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Ts borrowing  with Sunny, based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators recently  re-looked  into the complaint and said they thought it should 
be upheld from the point of loan 6 onwards.  Sunny  offered  to settle  the complaint along  
these lines but this wasnt agreed  to by Mr T. The complaint has therefore come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Ts 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr T could  repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks  ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
Ref: DRN65201692whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loans;  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr T could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr T. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending  history with 
a view to seeing  if there  was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said above  about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which Sunny most likely carried out appear to have been proportionate  for loans 1  
4. I think these levels of checks,  together with the income and expenditure  details provided  
by Mr T himself,  would have made those particular loans appear  affordable  for him. I also 
take into account that the loans were  all for relatively  moderate  amounts and although they 
were overlapping with one another, they were spread out over 6 monthly repayment 
instalments. This meant the amount  Mr T needed to pay each month  did appear to be well 
within his capacity to pay given what he himself had declared as his income.
I think that by loan 5, Sunny ought to have carried out more comprehensive checks although 
I cant see any evidence it did this. However,  in this case, I dont actually think this would 
have made  a difference. Thats because Mr T hasnt  shown me anything that demonstrates 
Sunny would have  thought that it shouldnt have lent to Mr T at that point in time. By loan 5, 
hed paid off one of the previous  outstanding  loans in full and although some others were 
outstanding, I again note that the amounts  were  moderate. Loan  5 was also for £50, his 
lowest sum to date. So whilst I think its fair to say Mr T appeared not to be managing his 
money particularly efficiently, I think Sunny would have looked at his finances and still lent 
him the money  for loan 5, even if its checks had been more searching. 
So Im afraid  Im not minded to uphold his complaint in respect of loans 1  5.
From the point of loan 6 onwards however, I think things  would have  looked  different and 
therefore required a more responsible approach.  The lending relationship was well 
established by this time and Mr T been  lent consistently to for over 4 months. Importantly, 
the lending started  to increase in value again by loan number 6 and Mr T was still being lent 
to whilst previous loans were outstanding. So I think by this point it was obvious that Mr T 
was indeed experiencing difficulty  in managing  money because of the debt he had and the 
consistent back to back borrowing.  
Theres no evidence Sunny altered its approach at the point of loan 6 to look more 
thoroughly at Mr Ts financial situation.  I think any reasonable assessment of his situation  
would have shown  he was probably borrowing to meet normal  ongoing commitments and he 
was in financial trouble. I think  it was irresponsible to lend from the point of loan 6 onwards.
Ref: DRN65201693From the point of loan 8, there  was an additional  and clear  pattern of repeated lending 
evident in my view.  By then, there was an obvious  dependency on high-interest, short-term 
lending evidenced  by this, his eighth  loan in 6 months. 
So Im also upholding  Mr Ts complaint in respect  of loans 8 and 9 as well. Sunny repeatedly  
lent to Mr T in an unsustainable manner because:
 
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Mr T borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  6- 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges on these from 
the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 6- 9 and treat any 
payments Mr T made towards these loans  as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Ts loans 6 - 9 accounts as Ive directed results in him effectively 
having made payments above  the original capital borrowed, then Sunny should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement.  
if reworking Mr Ts loans 6 - 9 accounts leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, 
then Sunny can use the total refund for the other upheld  loans  to offset this. And if 
there is still an outstanding capital balance  then I would remind Sunny that it should 
take a sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr 
T for the remaining  capital.
remove any negative information  about loan 6 and 7 from Mr Ts credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 8 mean any information  recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 8 and 9 should be completely removed from Mr 
Ts credit  file.
If Sunny sold any of the debt it should  attempt  to buy it back or otherwise ensure the 
above is complied  with.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give Mr T a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I partly uphold Mr Ts complaint. Elevate Credit International Limited 
should put things right for Mr T as set out above.  
Ref: DRN65201694Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Instalments Amount
1. 05/10/2016 09/01/2017 6 £200
2. 12/10/2016 27/02/2017 6 £100
3. 04/11/2016 05/04/2017 6 £150
4. 17/12/2016 26/05/2017 6 £100
5. 20/01/2017 27/01/2017 6 £50
6. 09/02/2017 15/09/2017* 6 £150
7. 15/03/2017 15/09/2017* 6 £150
8. 05/04/2017 15/09/2017* 6 £150
9. 01/06/2017 15/09/2017* 6 £150
*My understanding is that loans  6  9 are not fully repaid
Ref: DRN6520169