K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains about the travel insurance policies underwritten by Union 
Reiseversicherung AG (URV). He says URV  has breached its regulators high level 
Principles in its dealings  with him.
My references to URV include its agent.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint in part. I include an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
Mr O arranged annual  multi-trip travel insurance through an insurance intermediary or 
broker. The travel insurance  policy is underwritten by URV, which is the insurer of the policy. 
Mr Os premium payment includes the base  premium for the travel insurance  policy  
together with an additional premium to cover  his medical conditions.  He has asked  us to look 
into two main issues and to make a ruling  about  whether URV has acted in breach of its 
regulator the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) high level Principles. In his complaint 
form Mr O said, in summary,  there  were  two elements to his complaint:
1.The insurance broker failed to include the medical additional premium  in the insurance 
renewal quote. This means the renewal quote  is not easily comparable as required by 
the FCA rules. The insurance  broker said that it had complied  with the rules  because the 
underwriter (here  URV) held his medical information rather than the insurance broker. 
But the responsibility rests with the underwriter  to give the broker the information 
required to provide an easily comparable quote.  Mr O raised this issue  with the FCA but 
says that it refused  to give him an interpretation of its rules and instead referred him to 
this service.  
To resolve  this part of the complaint Mr O would like this service to make a ruling about 
whether the FCA rule on easily  comparable quotes  applies when the insurance broker 
doesnt hold medical information.  Otherwise  he is concerned there is a massive 
loophole to avoid compliance with the FCA rule, and this frustrates the purpose  of the 
rule which is to allow customers to shop around  when  renewing policies. And in turn he 
argues a breach  of the FCAs Principle 7, which says that communications to customers 
should be clear, fair and not misleading.
2.When he renewed  his policy he was asked to tell URV about  any deterioration in his 
medical conditions  as it might involve  an increased premium. He was told it wasnt  
possible to have  a refund  when his condition improved.  He raised  this with URV in 2017, 
telling it about  two improvements in his condition. Despite a promise to respond about a 
partial refund URV failed to respond to this point, in breach of the FCAs Principle 7 
about treating customers fairly.
To resolve  this part of the complaint he wants URV to consider a partial refund of his 
policy premium.  
URV said it intended to work within the FCA rules,  but the broker  couldnt include the 
medical information (the medical  additional premium) with the annual  renewal quote. This 
Ref: DRN63301042will depend  on each medical  condition, including treatment, and can change from year to 
year. It did offer to review  the additional premium  for Mr Os medical conditions.
Mr O pointed out that URV had not, as promised, reviewed the additional premium it had 
charged him and came  to us. URV has since told us that it wont  review the policy  premium  
for an improvement in health except at renewal.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O didnt agree  with the outcome or that wed 
dealt with all the issues hed raised.  He is concerned  that URV has failed to treat him fairly 
under the law, both as a vulnerable consumer and one who has a disability. The complaint 
came to me for review and Ive asked for some additional information before reaching my 
provisional findings.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
My role is to decide Mr Os complaint. Im not a regulator and its not for me to make a ruling  
on whether URV has breached the FCAs rules. Ive considered all Mr Os detailed points 
and in making my decision I will focus  on the issues that I find to be central to this complaint. 
Im likely to uphold this complaint but only in part. Ill explain  my reasons.
URV has agreed to accept responsibility  for the renewal information issued to Mr O. URV  
itself accepted that, in 2017  it didnt include  the comparison information with its travel 
insurance renewal email. Mr O pointed this out and URV apologised and sent him details of 
the previous years base premium and the current years renewal base premium. Mr O was 
correct to say that URV should  also have  included information to say that he could seek 
alternative quotations from different insurers. It acknowledged this when responding to his 
complaint. It also said that it had logged this compliance breach. I think this was a 
reasonable response to Mr Os complaint  and I dont require URV to do anything more.  
Ive considered Mr Os point that URV  is failing to provide information that allows  him directly  
to compare the new policy years premium  with the previous years premium.  This is 
because URV includes  only the base premium  for the travel insurance  cover and not the 
medical element.  
URV has said that the broker doesnt  hold medical information. Only URV, as insurer has 
that information. It also says that the consumers  medical conditions and its assessment of 
risk can change from year to year, which can affect  the premium.
As Ive said I dont intend to make a ruling about URVs compliance with FCAs rules as 
thats not my role. In considering whats fair and reasonable I dont think I can say URV  
acted unfairly in not including the new policy years medical additional premium to compare 
to the previous years premium, where  it had not gone through the medical  screening  to 
assess that risk and corresponding premium.  
In any event, I cant see that the omission of this information caused Mr O material  loss 
and/or inconvenience or distress. URV  made it clear that Mr O would need to contact it to go 
through the medical questions for it to quote the medical additional  premium.  If he wasnt  
Ref: DRN63301043happy with that quote  (or if URV  wasnt willing to cover  him) then Mr O could seek quotes  
from other insurers. 
Mr O has pointed out that hes never suggested he suffered a financial loss and so we 
shouldnt review the complaint on this basis. As Im not a regulator my awards are not 
intended to penalise a business even if I find its made a mistake or done something  wrong.  
Rather I assess the impact on the consumer and award compensation for stated detriment to 
the consumer,  including financial loss and material loss or inconvenience.  So assessing  loss 
is relevant to my determination of the complaint. 
As I understand it Mr O is also saying that there is a significant imbalance between  his rights  
and the rights of URV. This is because the insurance contract requires him to contact URV 
during the policy  year if there is a change in his health as set out the policy; that is, if hes 
seen his GP, been referred for tests or treatment or has a change in medication. The policy  
then allows  URV to charge an additional  premium,  change the policy  terms or to withdraw 
cover. But there is no corresponding  term that allows for a reduction in the premium  during 
the policy year if his health improves  (and the risk to URV  correspondingly reduces).
In reaching my decision I must take into account relevant law. So Ive also considered the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).  The CRA  says that a term may be deemed unfair if it is 
contrary to the requirement of good  faith and/or  it causes a significant imbalance between 
the rights  of the trader and the consumer
URV did tell Mr O that it would consider a refund of his premium if Mr O gave  it information  
about improvements in his health  during the policy year. He did so but it then failed to return  
to him on this point,  despite his reminders.  Its since said that it will review  any improvements 
in health only at the point  of renewal. Ill return to this point at the end of my decision. 
We have a longstanding approach about  mid-term changes in risk. Even if the policy terms 
say that a consumer  must contact their travel insurer about any change  in health during  the 
policy year its our view that the insurer can charge an additional premium,  change the terms 
or withdraw  cover entirely only if there is a significant change in the risk to the insurer.  Wed 
consider the consumers individual circumstances in deciding  this but generally this would  
mean a change that fundamentally changes the risk to the insurer.  An example would be 
where a consumer is diagnosed with a heart condition during the policy  year. 
Even if we consider there  has been  a significant  change in risk to the insurer and it was no 
longer willing  to cover the consumer then wed expect the insurer to offer to pay any 
cancellation costs  for any holiday booked in that policy year,  even if the consumer was fit to 
travel at that point. This is because the consumer had booked  the holiday in the knowledge they 
had travel insurance, and might be unable to obtain new insurance at a premium theyre able to 
afford. If no holiday was booked then a pro-rata refund of the premium  might be fair. I see that 
URV has told Mr O that it would offer to pay a cancellation claim or refund the premium if there 
was a change  in health over the policy year. Wed consider  that to be reasonable.
Mr Os point is that URV should  assess the change in risk to it where theres  an improvement 
in his condition.  But URVs  policy doesnt  say that it will do that and even taking into account 
the CRA  I dont think I could fairly  say that URV must reassess Mr  Os health condition  each 
time he has a change in his treatment during the policy year. That type of analysis of his 
changing medical conditions based on his specific medical history  and circumstances  is likely  
to be prohibitively  expensive. It was entitled to strike a premium at renewal, but as Ive said 
Ref: DRN63301044wed consider it fair for it to change  the policy terms if there was a significant  change in risk 
to it  one that effectively  changed the whole basis of the insurance contract. 
Mr O has raised  a concern about  proper treatment of vulnerable  customers  such  as himself 
given his medical history. He says URV has disregarded FCA Principle 6 requiring it to pay 
due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  fairly.  Also he says that his 
condition meets the definition of a protected characteristic under the Equality Act 2010.  URV 
must not treat him unfairly  and hes being disadvantaged where  URV  refuses  to consider 
repricing his premium  even in the event of a fundamental improvement in his condition for 
which he can present  medical  evidence. 
I think URV did recognise the points he was making  and it gave  him a response (subject to 
its failure to review his premium as it said it would do, which  Ill deal with later in this 
decision). But Mr O was able to very clearly set out his concerns to URV  which  it did deal 
with in the main. I dont  think it there  was an issue with any vulnerability in its responses. 
Ive considered the Equality Act, which sets out some circumstances in which insurance 
companies are legally allowed to treat customers with a disability differently from someone 
without a disability.  In effect, the Act says that insurance companies  can treat people with a 
disability differently if they can show  a reasonable basis  for this difference.  The Act says that 
the insurance companys decisions must  be based on information relevant to the 
assessment of the risk to be insured and from a reliable source. 
URV says that it uses a risk assessment tool to assess  the risk of medical conditions that 
consumers declare. Im aware that this type of tool gives risk scores for certain conditions, 
and will include  follow up questions for certain conditions and the answers to those 
questions may also attract  a risk score. URV has said that it reviews  the questions  it asks at 
the point of sale to take into account  new treatments and outcomes, and this in turn may 
increase or decrease the score as perception of risk supported  by the risk analysis alters. 
I havent seen  any evidence to say that URVs approach to assessment  of risk breaches the 
Equality Act.
I think its reasonable for URV to use a risk assessment tool based  on an algorithm to 
assess the risk of a claim. 
As Ive said there is one part of this complaint I intend to uphold. URV did tell Mr O that it 
would review his premium during the policy year but then it didnt do so. I dont think this was 
fair and URV raised his expectations. He had to chase  URV for an answer  about this point. 
I think URV should pay some moderate compensation for the inconvenience caused  to 
Mr O, including his disappointment  and frustration that it hadnt reviewed the premium as 
agreed. I assess £150 compensation to be fair and reasonable. I dont require a partial 
refund of the policy premium.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr O responded in detail  to say that he didnt  accept my provisional  decision although  he 
was pleased Id awarded compensation for part of his complaint. 
URV responded to say that it would agree to pay £150 compensation.
Ref: DRN63301045my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr O is disappointed both with the length of time its taken to reach  this stage 
and that Ive not upheld  his complaint about URVs compliance with the FCAs Principles and 
rules. He was pleased Id awarded compensation for URVs failure to reconsider his 
premium following improvements in his health.  
Ive considered Mr Os comments but they dont change my opinion about the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. Again, Ill focus on what I see as the central issues.  
Its not my role to make a ruling  on URVs compliance either with the FCAs Principles or the 
rules. But I do take into account the relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards  when 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of an individual complaint.  
Thats what  Ive done here with the relevant regulator being the FCA.
So my review of this complaint has included consideration of the FCAs high level Principles 
and the specific  ICOBS rules to which Mr O referred in making his complaint.  Its not the 
case that I was refusing to take them into account  or that I was contradictory in taking into 
account the Principles but not rules  as Mr O suggests. 
In assessing whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  it remains  my view that it 
wasnt unfair for URV  to ask Mr O to go through its medical screening process before 
quoting the additional premium for his medical  conditions. 
I accept URV already  held information  about  Mr Os health at the point  of renewal. But it 
didnt have a complete  picture of his medical  conditions on which to assess the risk and in 
turn to quote the additional  medical  premium to cover his medical conditions for the new 
policy year.  He didnt  suffer a financial loss as a result of not having that additional premium 
information at the point  he was sent the renewal letter. I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint. 
I remain of the view that URV should pay Mr O £150  compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience for its failure to return to him about reviewing his premium during  the policy 
year. I uphold this part of the complaint and URV has now agreed to pay this compensation. 
I know Mr O has questioned  why the FCA referred  him to this service when hed wanted a 
ruling on URVs compliance with its Principles  and rules. He might  wish to raise this with the 
FCA directly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision and in this final decision 
I uphold this complaint  but only in part. I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay 
Mr O £150 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.  
URV must pay the total compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr O 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Ref: DRN63301046Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If URV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr O a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN6330104