K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  HSBC  UK Bank Plc declined  contactless payments she made  on her debit 
card and didnt clearly explain to her why or when  this might happen.
background
Miss K has a bank  account with HSBC. On 21 September 2018, Miss Ks said she tried to 
make a payment  for £28 using her contactless  facility on her card.  As the payment was 
declined she used  cash she had on her to make the payment instead. The following day 
Miss Ks said she successfully made a contactless  payment  for around £5 in another  store. 
The same day, Miss K tried to make  another contactless payment in a third store  this time 
for around  £16. But the payment was declined so Miss K used her credit card to make the 
payment instead.
Miss Ks said she had sufficient funds  in her account  during all three transactions so the 
payments shouldnt have been  declined. Shes  said she felt humiliated when her payments 
were declined and she thinks  shes been  left worse  off by having to use her credit  card  due 
to the interest  she wouldve accrued on her account.  She also questioned why one of the 
transactions was accepted whilst the other two werent.
HSBCs explained the reason Miss Ks payments were declined  was due to fraud prevention. 
Its said if a high volume of contactless payments are made, the transactions  may be 
declined so that the person attempting the payment has to use the chip and pin facility. This 
is to verify they are the authorised cardholder. Its said when Miss Ks payments were 
declined she couldve attempted to enter her personal identification number (PIN)  instead. 
Its pointed to a letter  it says it wouldve sent to Miss K with her new card explaining this. And 
its sent us an extract  from the question and answer section of its website that also explains 
this.
Miss K wasnt happy with HSBCs response. So she asked us to look into things. Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  because he didnt  think it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to apply  the security measures it had and he thought HSBC  had explained to Miss K 
that she might need to use her chip and pin facility sometimes. He also thought  the correct 
transactions had been declined and accepted based on what hed seen. As Miss K didnt 
agree with our adjudicators findings,  the complaints been  passed to me to reach  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive decided not to uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the adjudicator.
Ive thought carefully about how Miss Ks said the declined transactions made  her feel  and 
I understand why she mightve felt worried and embarrassed when  the payments werent 
successful. HSBCs said the reason the transactions were declined was due to its fraud 
prevention system. Its explained in some circumstances,  customers  contactless payments 
will be declined  so they need to use their PIN in order  to verify they are the account holder. 
This is to ensure  someone who isnt authorised  to use the account cant make several 
transactions on the account. And I dont think this is unreasonable.
Ref: DRN62659462I appreciate Miss Ks said she wasnt made  aware  of this  and she thinks HSBC shouldve 
made it clearer. But HSBCs given us a sample  copy of a letter it says it wouldve sent to 
Miss K with the debit card. At the top of this letter, it says it relates to the same type of 
account Miss K held.  And I can see this letter  lets customers know, To keep your money  
secure, contactless transactions will be declined from time to time, and youll  need  to pay 
with Chip/PIN to complete your purchase. HSBCs also pointed to its website  which 
mentions customers might need to use their PIN for security reasons. 
So overall, I think its likely HSBC declined  the contactless transactions  in line with its usual 
processes to keep  Miss Ks account  secure.  And whilst I appreciate Miss K might not have 
realised her payment  had been declined because she was using the contactless facility at 
the time,  I think HSBC  explained to Miss K it might do this sometimes.
I know Miss Ks concerned about  why one of her contactless transactions  went through 
when her other transactions didnt. And I can understand  why she might  question this  as it 
can be confusing.  But having looked at the information HSBCs given us, I can see that not 
all contactless transactions will be declined after one has  and its determined by several  
factors. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that HSBC declined and approved the 
transactions it did in line with its internal  processes. If Miss Ks transactions are declined  in 
the future  when she tries to make  a contactless  payment,  I suggest  she tries to use the chip 
and pin facility first before  using a different account or method  to make the payment.
I appreciate Miss Ks unhappy  she had to use her credit card to cover the cost of one of the 
payments when her debit  card wouldnt work.  So shed like HSBC  to reimburse her the 
amount of the transaction  and any associated interest she wouldve accrued on her credit 
card. But Miss K couldve  used her current account for her payment  if shed used the chip 
and pin facility. And, in any event,  for the reasons Ive given,  I dont think  HSBC has done 
anything wrong  in this case. So I dont think it needs to do anything to reimburse her.
Miss K would like HSBC to let all customers know it might sometimes  decline contactless 
payments for this reason.  But from what Ive seen, I think  HSBC  does already let its 
customers know they might have to use their chip and pin at times  for security purposes. So 
I wont be asking it to do anything more in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept  or reject my decision 
before 25 April 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6265946