complaint
Mr W has complained that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA)  hasnt paid a claim under his 
travel insurance policy.
background
Mr W was due to fly from the United Kingdom to Europe when his flight  was delayed, and 
then cancelled. The airline explained  this was due to a failure  in the airport  fuelling system.
Mr W says he was told by the airline that there  was no availability on a flight until four days  
later. Mr W had already  paid for onward flights to a second destination. He had also already 
paid for accommodation  at his second destination,  as well as tickets to a festival.  So rather 
than wait for a flight the following week, Mr W bought  a ticket through  another  airline to fly on 
the same  day, so that he could continue  with the plans he had made.
Mr W made a claim on his travel insurance  for the extra costs  he incurred, under the 
Delayed Departure section of his policy  specifically the cost of his alternative plane ticket 
and the cost of a taxi. He said the reason  for the failure in the airport fuelling system was due 
to adverse weather, and therefore  covered under  the Delayed Departure section of his 
policy. 
IPA declined his claim for the costs. It initially said fuel failure wasnt covered under Mr Ws 
policy and there wasnt  enough to suggest that adverse weather, which  was covered under 
his policy, could be linked to the failure. Our investigator looked  into things and upheld 
Mr Ws complaint.  She felt there was enough evidence  showing a link between  the adverse 
weather and the failure of the fuelling system, which  in turn meant that the plane  couldnt fly.
IPA disagreed. It initially maintained that there wasnt enough to suggest a link between the 
adverse weather and the failure. After further  correspondence with our investigator, IPA then 
said that because  the adverse weather conditions happened the day before, and didnt affect 
the aircraft directly, the claim still wouldnt be covered under the policy.
As an agreement hadnt been reached, the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint.
Mr Ws policy says that it will pay a claim in the following circumstances:
If the public transport on which you are booked to travel:
1.is delayed at the final departure point from or to the United Kingdom  and in addition 
for residents  of Northern Ireland any departure point  in the Republic of Ireland (but 
not including  delays to any subsequent outbound or return  connecting public 
transport) for at least 12 hours  from the scheduled  time of departure, or
Ref: DRN667838822.is cancelled before or after the scheduled time of departure  as a result  of any of the 
following events:
a)strike or industrial action or
b)adverse weather conditions or
c) mechanical breakdown  of or a technical fault occurring in the public transport on 
which you are booked  to travel.   
IPA initially said the airline hadnt specifically stated that the failure was due to adverse 
weather, and so there wasnt enough  to suggest that the failure can be linked to adverse  
weather conditions. 
The airline said the following, in a letter to Mr W:
We apologise for the cancellation  of your flightwhich was caused  by airport  fuelling 
system failure
However Ive considered  the other information  available to me in order  to determine if Mr W 
has been treated  fairly. 
Mr W has provided a news report confirming that lightning strikes  affected the fuel systems 
on flights departing  from the same  airport Mr W was due to fly from, and on the same  day. 
This matches news reports Ive seen  also stating lightning strikes affected several 
consumers on the same day, and from that airport. So Im satisfied the adverse weather was 
the more likely cause  of the fuelling system failure, which in turn caused the flight to be 
cancelled.
Nevertheless, IPAs main dispute no longer  seems  to be whether there is a link between  the 
adverse weather conditions and the cancelled flight.  It has said that even if adverse weather 
did affect the fuelling system, it didnt affect the flight or aircraft  directly, and only claims 
relating to the flight or aircraft directly would be covered.
But the relevant  section  of the policy, quoted above, doesnt say that the adverse weather 
has to directly affect the mode of public transport. Looking at the information available,  I 
think its more likely  than not that the adverse weather conditions  affected the airport fuelling  
system. I also think the Mr Ws flight wouldnt have been cancelled if it were  not for the 
adverse weather conditions that occurred.  So considering this, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for IPA to apply  the term to the circumstances of Mr Ws claim.
Mr W explained that he booked another flight with another airline, so he didnt miss his 
onward flight to another destination as well as his additional accommodation costs and his 
festival ticket in the second  destination. 
If Mr W had waited to fly on the next available flight offered  to him, which  was four days  later,  
he would  have been entitled to claim for the abandonment of his trip under  Section G of his 
policy. This says Mr W would be paid:
Ref: DRN66783883Up to £2,000  for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other  
pre-paid charges  which you have paid or are contracted to pay, if:
a)after a delay of at least 12 hours,  or
b)following cancellation, no suitable  alternative public transport is provided within  12 
hours of the scheduled time of departure
you choose to cancel your trip before departure from the United Kingdom
Instead, Mr W made his own arrangements to continue with his trip. In doing so, I think he 
reduced IPAs liability  under  his policy. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for IPA to 
pay Mr Ws claim for his additional costs up to this policy limit together with interest. 
I understand Mr W has also raised concerns to our service about the email addresses  the 
insurer has used when  corresponding with him about his claim. Mr W doesnt  appear to have 
raised this as a complaint with the insurer yet. So this would form a new complaint, should 
Mr W wish to raise it. So it follows that I wont be commenting on this in my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
settle Mr Ws travel insurance claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions, 
excesses and limits of his policy,  and; 
add interest at 8% simple per annum from the date Mr W paid for his additional costs 
until the date settlement  is paid*.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Hana Yousef
ombudsman 
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr W a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for once, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN6678388