K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  gave him incorrect advice on the cover  
available under his legal  expenses insurance  policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust,  this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
Background
Mr B made a claim on his policy to cover the legal costs of defending a dispute with his ex-
employer. This was declined by Amtrust  on the basis that the policy  only covers him to bring  
an employment claim  not to defend  one.
Mr B says he made two calls to the legal helpline  which is provided under  the legal 
expenses policy and run by Amtrusts panel firm of solicitors  before making  his claim. He 
says he was told the policy covers both the pursuit  and the defence of a claim and that he 
was potentially covered.  He feels  hes been  given incorrect information and had he known  
there wasnt cover, he could have taken out an alternative policy elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied the legal helpline  didnt give 
Mr B incorrect information. And even  if theyd told him there  was no cover, he didnt think  
Mr B would have been able to take out an alternative policy elsewhere as the claim had 
already arisen.  
As Mr B didnt agree,  the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, Im satisfied Amtrust declined  the claim 
correctly. This is because,  whilst  the policy does define legal action as being both the pursuit 
and defence of a civil case, each insured peril has its own definition  of what  types  of claims 
are covered.  For employment  disputes, the policy is clear  that cover  is available to pursue a 
legal action brought before an employment tribunal or court against an employer or ex-
employer. So Mr B wasnt covered for defending a claim.
Ive thought about whether Mr B was led to believe otherwise by the conversations  he had 
with the legal helpline in October 2018. But I dont  think  he was. The investigation carried  out 
by the panel firm concluded that the adviser told Mr B there was potential  cover. And that 
he was given a short explanation of the claims process. Mr B acknowledges that he wasnt 
told the claim was covered. His email to our service of 14 May 2019 says he was told there 
was potential cover. 
The role of the legal helpline is to give generic  legal  advice. Its not for them to make policy 
decisions on cover, which  is what Amtrust  or its agents will do when a claim is submitted. 
And thats what happened in this case.
Mr B says that if hed been told he wasnt covered, he would have taken out a policy  
elsewhere. He says the claim  didnt arise until January 2019 so he would have  had enough 
time to find alternative cover. I dont  agree.  And Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN61007212The legal expenses  policy  Mr B holds is whats called  a before the event  insurance policy.  
This means  the policy  has to be in place before the event  leading  to a claim arises. Mr B 
says the claim didnt arise  until January 2019 because  this is when his ex-employers took 
legal action against him. 
But for the purposes of a legal expenses  policy, the event wouldnt  be when legal action is 
started  its when the events that lead to the legal  action take place. In this case, the event 
or series of events leading to the claim would have been when Mr B took action which  his 
former employed said was in breach  of restrictive covenants in his contract. As this 
happened before  his call to the legal helpline, I dont  think  he could have sought alternative 
cover elsewhere; other legal expenses policies would have excluded  this claim on the basis  
that the events  leading  to it had already occurred. 
In any event, for the reasons  given, Im not satisfied that Amtrust or its agents acted 
incorrectly when handling Mr Bs claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6100721