K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs K have  complained about their home insurer  Fairmead  Insurance  Limited 
because it avoided their policy  (treated it as though it had never existed), and by association  
declined a claim theyd  made to it after a burglary occurred at their home. 
background
Mr C and Mrs K arranged  their cover with Fairmead  in August 2016. They were asked if 
thered ever been  subsidence at their home.  They said no. 
The policy renewed  in 2017 and 2018. In December 2018 there  was a break-in at Mr C and 
Mrs Ks home. They were away at the time. Their daughter made a claim to Fairmead  and 
during the call she said the property had, in the past,  suffered from subsidence, around eight 
years previously. Fairmead considered the matter and made  enquiries  with Mr C and 
Mrs Ks previous insurer. It discovered  a subsidence claim had been made and settled in 
2009.
Fairmead wrote to Mr C and Mrs K. It said if it had been told about subsidence, it wouldnt 
have offered them a policy.  It said it was avoiding  the policy and whilst it would refund their 
premiums, it wouldnt be assisting with their theft claim. Mr C and Mrs K complained  and 
when Fairmead wouldnt  change its position,  they complained to us.
Our investigator noted the question Mr C and Mrs K had been asked, their answer and the 
evidence Fairmead  had provided  about  its acceptance criteria for cover.  He felt Fairmead 
had acted within the rules set out for this type of issue.  He didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr C and Mrs K indicated  they didnt believe that Fairmead wouldnt have offered cover.  
Earlier in their submissions theyd said they knew of neighbours with Fairmead policies 
whod also suffered subsidence.  They also said that they hadnt  really known what 
subsidence was when they answered Fairmeads questions at application.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately for Mr C and Mrs K there  is little I can add to what our investigator said. Whilst 
Ive reviewed matters afresh  I find I agree with the details he set out. 
There are rules in place which set out what parties  are obliged to do when policies are 
applied for, and what can be done  if correct  answers  arent given.
When asked a clear question by Fairmead,  Mr C and Mrs K gave incorrect  information,  and 
Fairmead has satisfied me that it wouldnt have offered a policy if the right information had 
been given. I understand  that Mr C and Mrs K indicate that they didnt understand what  
subsidence is  but if they didnt understand they should  have taken care to find out before 
answering Fairmeads question. The rules say that if care isnt taken and an incorrect 
answer causes an insurer  to offer cover it otherwise wouldnt have done, it can avoid that 
cover. That is what Fairmead  did, I cant reasonably find fault with it for that. 
Ref: DRN68670292The criteria Fairmead used is in respect  of arranging new polices  that is what  Mr C and 
Mrs K were  applying for in 2016.  I cant speculate here as to why others might have a 
Fairmead policy if they have had subsidence.  But what  others  may or may not have  doesnt  
change the fact that Fairmead has satisfied me as to the criteria it applied  for all new 
applicants of the policy Mr C and Mrs K arranged in 2016. And that shows no cover would 
have been offered to them if theyd told Fairmead about the previous subsidence.  
Fairmead did refund Mr C and Mrs Ks premiums that had been paid since 2016,  which  
I think is fair.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance  Limited .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6867029