K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains SVS Securities Plc mis-sold  and pressured him into making investments. He 
also complains about poor service.
background
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold  and pressurised into investing in company N in 
February 2016 and company T in May 2016.  He said the broker didnt give him adequate 
advice. He said the broker was aggressive  and he felt pressured  into buying shares in both 
companies. He doesnt think  they were suitable.  In April 2016, shares in N were sold at a 
profit and the funds used to invest in T. In 2017,  the shares in T dropped in value.
He said SVS should have given him advice on the phone with these investments  as they are 
a telephone advisory service. He was dissatisfied  with the level of service he received.  Mr N 
asked for his original  investment amount to be refunded and for SVS to close his account 
once this was done. He said SVS ignored  his instructions and closed the account without 
refunding his money. They  later sent him the share  certificate. 
SVS say the investments were in line with the level of risk Mr N had requested and was 
suitable. They gave  Mr N a new broker in March 2017and say the new broker  didnt respond 
to his emails because he was ill. They say that Mr N was not mis-sold or pressured into 
investing in N and T and made the decision to invest in these himself.
The investigator at this service said she couldnt conclusively say the investments had been  
mis-sold or that Mr N was pressured  into them. But added that there is indication of issues  
with the broker  who gave the advice.  She said that SVS had ignored his instructions only to 
close the account once the investment funds had been refunded. She upheld the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision, which is attached to and forms part of this final decision, in 
December 2018.  In my provisional decision I explained I thought the investments SVS 
recommended were suitable based  on Mr Ns level of understanding of these types of 
investments, his investment objectives and the level of risk he was willing and able to take.  
But I wasnt satisfied SVS had treated Mr N fairly  in the way it had dealt with him and the 
way it had closed  his account. I thought SVS should pay Mr N £200  to say sorry.
SVS accepted my provisional decision,  but Mr N thought  SVSs errors meant it should pay 
him more  in compensation.
He said that SVS should have the call recordings  as they monitored  the call which  then 
resulted in the change of broker for him. He says he was told by the quality assurance team 
that they were  not happy with the way the broker had spoken  to him. He believes the broker  
was aggressive and not concerned with client service. This is what led him to make the 
complaint to SVS. They closed his account and transferred his share certificate without his 
consent. He feels  the compensation amount offered is not sufficient. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken on board the points Mr N has raised since  issuing my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN60032402Mr N says that SVS should still have the call recording, but SVS says it doesnt. Our service 
is informal and to a degree has to accept the evidence were  provided with in good faith. But 
in this case I dont  think the lack of phone recordings prevents me from reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
I have considered the points Mr N makes but I have  also considered the documentary 
evidence and emails  provided to me. The fact that Mr N made  more  than one investment 
suggests that he was happy with the investment  in N. And this has led me to the conclusion 
that the investments in both N and T werent mis-sold due to pressure.  
I do believe the broker has given  poor service and SVS changed  the broker which  suggests  
there was an issue there with the service provided.  SVS have accepted this. But I dont 
believe that this poor service is what caused Mr N to make his investment or crucially to 
suffer the losses he has made on it. 
I have explained  in my provisional decision that any loss Mr N suffered could have been  
mitigated if Mr N had sold the share certificate upon  receipt. He had access to other brokers  
and has previously dealt  with other brokers  so it should have been  relatively  straightforward.  
So I dont  think SVS are responsible for the situation  that Mr N now finds  himself in.  
I also think SVS could have communicated better with Mr N to discuss the closure of his 
account. This has resulted in further distress and inconvenience to Mr N. So SVS should pay 
Mr N £200 for the distress  and inconvenience  he has suffered as a result of the poor 
customer service.   
I know Mr N will be disappointed with my decision but the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision remain unchanged and so I make those same findings here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  I will be upholding this 
complaint in part against SVS Securities  Plc. They should pay Mr N £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience  they caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr N has complained about both investments in N and T, I have 
considered both here.
suitability of investment
SVS went through  an information gathering exercise  with Mr N in order to establish  his level of 
experience in investments, existing holdings  and current financial situation.  It covered  the level of 
understanding Mr N had of these dealings and also the level of risk he was prepared to take.  
Ref: DRN60032403He had 10 years  previous trading experience and knowledge in the stock market, scoring 
himself a 4/10 in experience. 
He had experience in FTSE 100, FTSE  250 and AIM with an average dealing size of £5000. 
In the know your client document, Mr N said he trades  frequently in AIM with 20-30 trades a 
year and 4-6 trades a year in FTSE 100 & 250. 
At the time, He had £6,000 in shares, £30,000 in cash,  £10,000 in an ISA account,  £4000  in 
investment funds and £6,000 in bonds. 
It was also necessary to establish Mr Ns investment objectives and whether he was financially  able to 
bear any related  investment  risks consistent with his investment objectives. His objective was to 
achieve a mixture of capital growth  and dividend income and was prepared to commit his investment 
for 12-18  months. This is consistent with the overall  period Mr N had made investments with SVS. 
Mr Ns attitude  towards risk was to accept some  risk and although this has not been clearly defined in 
the know  your client document, when  asked about the amount he wishes to invest through SVS his 
response was that this would be assessed on a case by case basis. The document clearly  states that 
this should be Money available  for your trading with us that, if lost, would not have a significant 
adverse effect on your lifestyle. Mr N did complete  this part of the form. Considering  all of the above 
points, I think Mr N was willing and able to accept  the level of risk SVSs recommendations  presented.
In the know your client document, Mr N confirmed that he understood the risks involved and the risks 
in dealing with smaller  companies shares which you would expect  with the AIM. It goes  on to detail  
that he currently holds £3000 in low risk equities and £3000 in high risk equities  and had sufficient 
funds to bear the risk. So Mr Ns understanding of the type of risk this investment presented doesnt 
seem to be the issue. The dispute  is that he didnt think T or N were the right investments. 
But theres no guarantee a particular investment is going to be successful  or deliver  the returns  an 
investor wants. Thats part of the inherent risk of investing. And having reviewed everything Mr N and 
SVS have said, I think the advice Mr N received  to invest in N and T was suitable for him. He had 
experience trading these kinds  of shares and they had the potential  to deliver  the returns  he wanted 
over his chosen,  relatively short timescale. I think he understood the risks the investments presented 
and was financially able to bear those risks. 
customer service
SVS describes itself as a phone based service but the terms provide for email correspondence. While 
SVS encouraged Mr N to talk on the phone it did  initially  at least   communicate with him by email. 
At certain  points Im satisfied  SVS didnt  respond to emails  as soon as it should  have. Its said this 
was because the broker was off and no one was checking that email  account   but I dont think  thats 
something Mr N should have  to suffer for. SVS eventually offered Mr N a different broker. But overall  I 
dont think it communicated with him in a fair way throughout the time he held his account.
Mr N says he wasnt happy  with investing in N and says he was pushed  into this investment by the 
broker. SVS confirm Mr N sent an email saying he had performed further research  into N and there 
was some discussion on this. They say this formed part of the advisory service  SVS provides but I 
feel it also showed Mr N did have concerns  about this investment. There doesnt appear to be any 
follow up to this and the shares were later sold at a profit.
In May 2016  when speaking to his broker, Mr N said the broker was rude to him and he felt 
pressurised into making the investment in T. SVS said no pressure was applied  and that Mr N was 
also offered  other  investments too but he made the choice to invest  in T himself and gave his consent 
to purchase the shares in T. Whilst  I appreciate SVS are only required to hold call recordings for six 
months, a copy of the call would have been extremely useful in establishing what  was actually said. 
SVS would be expected to contact  Mr N and give suitable advice on what  products to invest  in  this 
is the service he signed up to. But the terms and conditions are clear  in section 6. Provision  of 
Services that We do not undertake to monitor or review Your investments at regular  intervals  or 
Ref: DRN60032404otherwise and this therefore remains  Your responsibility.  So I cant  say SVS were required  to monitor 
his shares or to contact  him to discuss any changes in those  investments. Mr N was responsible for 
doing this himself and to contact  SVS if he wanted to make any changes to his investments.
Mr N complains that SVS should have advised him to sell his shares in T, He says he had a stop loss 
agreed. SVS terms  and conditions are clear that they do not monitor trades, it is not part of the 
service the offer. So I wouldnt expect the broker to call Mr N to advise  to sell the shares. SVS 
provided an email dated 21 March 2017 from Mr N suggesting he wanted to sell at 0.01. Mr N says at 
the time of purchase  of shares  in T, he discussed with the broker that they could sell the shares if 
there was a 10% increase or decrease. SVS havent kept the call recording and the know your client 
document has also not been  completed at the relevant section for stop loss. If the stop loss had been 
agreed, I would expect  that this would  have been documented. On balance of probabilities,  I dont 
think SVS agreed  a stop loss or to advise  Mr N if the share  price fell. 
Its clear there are issues with the first broker which resulted in a change  to the new broker.  But Mr N 
continued his investment with SVS after issues he said he had with the broker so I cant say there is 
enough evidence  based  on what I have seen that Mr N was pressured  into investing  in N or T. On 
balance I think SVS provided  poor service to Mr N when he was with his first broker and so I uphold 
this element of his complaint. But I dont think it can fairly be held responsible for the losses Mr N 
suffered on his investment  in T.
account closure
When Mr N complained to SVS in May 2017 no action was taken  for two weeks and so he asked for 
his full money back at the price he paid for shares in T. He specified  that his account should only be 
closed if all his money was returned. SVS says the service they offered wasnt what  Mr N was looking 
for and would close his account and withdraw his one line of stock for free waiving a £15 certificate 
withdrawal fee. 
I think  Mr Ns instructions are clear and the account should only have been closed  once all of his 
initial money was returned. But there was no money to return in this case. As I explained above,  I 
dont think the investment was mis-sold and so I dont think SVS had to refund any money  to Mr N. In 
addition to this, Mr N could have reduced any loss he potentially incurred  if he sold these shares  as 
soon as he received the share certificate. He has used other brokers previously and has current  
investments so I do feel this is something that could  have been  easily managed. I also think  SVS 
could have communicated  better with Mr N when  closing his account. Having considered all the 
information available,  I dont feel that SVS are responsible for Mr N being in this position. But the lack 
of communication from SVS has caused Mr N further distress and inconvenience.  
summary
As detailed  above, Im not satisfied based  on the evidence that Mr N was mis-sold  or pressured into 
investing in either N or T. But it is clear  that there were issues with the broker and SVS have accepted 
this. This has resulted in poor customer service to Mr N. I also think SVS could have communicated 
better with Mr N to discuss  the closure of his account. This has resulted in further  distress and 
inconvenience to Mr N. So SVS should pay Mr N £200 for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered as a result of the poor customer service.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I will be upholding  this complaint in part against SVS Securities Plc. 
They should pay Mr N £200  for distress and inconvenience.
I invite both parties with their comments by 22 December 2018.
Ref: DRN6003240