K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complaint is about  the way in which Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) 
has handled a critical illness  claim they made in 2012 under their joint mortgage protection 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs E have  several grounds of dissatisfaction, including Avivas choice of medical 
experts, its approach to their claim and the refusal  of their claim in 2016.  Ultimately, Mr and 
Mrs E say that if Aviva had dealt with their claim fairly, theyd have been paid the claim  value 
as at August  2012. This would have been  a sum assured amounting to £33,663 more than 
the final claims value  they received in 2017.  
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a joint protection policy in November 2000. It had an initial  sum 
assured of £170,000. The policy was set up on a decreasing  basis, for a term of 25 years  to 
run alongside  their mortgage  lending. The policy is provided by Aviva (previously Norwich 
Union) and was sold to Mr and Mrs E by a third party. 
Mrs E became unwell  in 2011 after an escalation in her previously  diagnosed  condition of 
myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME),  which had resulted from the Epstein-Barr virus.  The 
condition is often referred to alongside chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS/ME). As of August 
2012, Mrs E was signed off from her part-time  employment, and she sadly  never returned to 
work in the same  capacity and eventually had to give up working altogether  by July 2012. 
A claim  was made by Mr and Mrs E for total permanent disablement (TPD) in August 
2012. They  say at that time it was clear  Mrs E would never be able to work  again, because 
trying to return to work after her issues of 2011 had caused her a major relapse and she had 
now ceased working. 
On her claim  form, Mrs E noted  she has suffered  from CFS/ME since 2005,  at which  time 
she was unable to work  for the next five years. She had eventually been  able to undertake 
volunteering work, then paid part-time employment  before suffering a relapse. 
Mrs Es condition  left her with fatigue,  muscular and joint pain, cognitive  dysfunction,  light 
and noise sensitivity, and post-exertional malaise  if she attempted  any meaningful activity. 
This had left her predominantly housebound. Mr E submitted that given the length  of time 
Mrs E had suffered  from ME, combined with her unsuccessful efforts to re-join the workforce  
without getting  chronically sick again,  a reasonable conclusion was that she was totally and 
permanently disabled. 
Aviva wrote out to Mrs Es GP, and sought relevant medical records.  It also asked Mrs E 
specific questions about her previous employment and the kind of treatment options  she had 
tried.  
In February 2013,  Aviva  said it didnt have enough  evidence to support the claim and it 
required Mrs E to have a home visit from an independent medical assessor. 
Mr and Mrs E said CFS/ME affects  the body's nervous  system  and was not a mental 
condition and refused to see the proposed assessor  as his approach was from a mental 
health perspective. Aviva did not agree. It said the examiner  had specialist clinical  expertise 
in somatoform disorders (medically unexplained symptoms), chronic pain disorders and 
Ref: DRN66767602CFS/ME and so he was suitably qualified to conduct an assessment of Mrs Es capacity to 
work. 
Mr and Mrs E disagreed, and they asked that a specific consultant physician (Dr W) be 
appointed instead. As a compromise,  Aviva proposed that Mrs E be seen by a specified  
consultant rheumatologist, who ran a CFS/ME clinic  in London.
Mr and Mrs E still disagreed, because the proposed doctor worked alongside the previous 
one. Aviva said it was entitled  to choose the relevant  specialist where  it was paying for the 
assessment. Further ongoing  correspondence  between the parties around Avivas proposed 
assessor continued over several months. 
In October  2013 Mr E confirmed that Mrs E had undergone an ATP profile test which is able 
to identify mitochondrial dysfunction at a cellular level within ME sufferers. Mrs Es blood  test 
confirmed she had this dysfunction as her ATP level was low. They also supplied evidence 
from Mrs Es treating consultant who confirmed Mrs E suffered from ME, as she met the 
relevant tests given  under  the ME International Consensus  Criteria 2011.  
Aviva agreed to ask Mrs Es treating consultant  for the medical  report  instead. 
In May 2014, Aviva  said the report from the treating consultant was insufficient to pay out on 
a TPD claim. That was because it talked about Mrs Es symptoms but didnt provide an 
objective assessment  against the policy definition.  
This led to another series  of ongoing correspondence between  the parties, where Mr E 
primarily communicated on Mrs Es behalf. They felt Aviva was expert  shopping. It was 
again noted that matters at this time were not to be treated as a complaint.  
In early 2015, Aviva sent Mr and Mrs E a list of three  further  independent medical 
professionals to choose from. This did not include Dr W, as Aviva's understanding was that 
Dr W treats from a biomedical perspective and it required any consultant who it instructs to 
follow National Institute for Health and Care  Excellence (NICE) recommended treatment 
pathways. Further dispute around  the choice of examiners continued through 2015.  
In the interim, Mr and Mrs E sent Aviva a statutory questionnaire under the Equality Act 
2010.
In early 2016, Mrs E met with a differing  Dr W, a consultant occupational physician from the 
list of three. He produced a medical report in February 2016 where he felt Mrs E could 
recover again sufficiently  to return to work, with a view to doing  so very incrementally and 
engaging in a voluntary role as she had done  in 2011. 
In May 2016, Aviva  refused  the claim. It said the examiners opinion  was that with a 
progressive return to working  and adopting  coping  strategies that there is the prospect of 
Mrs E returning to gainful employment in the future.
Mr and Mrs E said it wasnt  reasonable that Mrs E could return to work. The prospect of 
doing so was too stressful for her and this was foreseeable. They pointed to a case example 
that had been previously  concluded by this service  in favour of paying a claim. They  also 
stated that they thought Aviva had indirectly discriminated against ME sufferers.   
Ref: DRN66767603Mr E also complained about the time Aviva had taken to process  the claim. A final response 
to that complaint was issued on 10 August 2016, with a further  final response on 15 
September 2016. Aviva said it was willing to pay £600 to Mr and Mrs E for the upset theyd 
been caused as a result of the delays. 
In January 2017, Mr and Mrs E instructed Dr W, a consultant physician that predominantly 
works with CFS/ME patients (who  had previously been suggested by Mr E in 2013  and 
thereafter). A medical report was supplied to Aviva a few months  later which  said Mrs E was 
completely unable to return  to her previous occupation(s). It was noted she had not 
recovered as had been hoped by the earlier medical  examiner,  Dr W. 
In 2017, Aviva confirmed  it would  pay the TPD claim as at the date of the report from Dr W. 
That was because it accepted Mrs E had not made any further  progress in terms of being 
able to return to work.  The sum assured as at the claim acceptance  date of 19 April 2017  
was £85,734.   
Mr and Mrs E were  unhappy with this. They said it is standard  within  the insurance industry 
that payment  is based on the date of the insurable  event and notification  of claim, rather than 
the date an insurer  decided to meet the claim.  Mr E also contended that the policy  wording 
supported that a claim should be paid from the date of disablement. 
Aviva disagreed. It said TPD benefit  was not payable from the time of the initial occurrence 
of any illness, the date of diagnosis of any illness, nor the date when Mrs E was first absent 
from work.  Its position is that the benefit was payable from the date its medical  adviser is 
satisfied the claim criteria  is met  which would  ordinarily be as at the date the relevant 
medical evidence  confirming the claim definition had been received. 
Mr and Mrs E continued to disagree.  They said the purpose upon which the product was 
sold to them was that if something happened and one of them couldnt work or died, the 
mortgage would be paid off from that point, hence taking out cover  on a decreasing  term 
basis. They  contended that to interpret  the policy any other way would amount to an unfair 
contract term and be in breach of relevant legislation regarding  unfair contracts.
Aviva issued a third final response  letter in 2017, saying it had paid the claim correctly.    
So, Mr E lodged their complaint with this service in 2018. At that time, Mr E set out his and 
Mrs Es concerns around  ten specified heads  of complaint and a further, eleventh head of 
complaint which  contained  the redress required to put matters right. These  were,  according 
to Mr E: 
1.an incorrect interpretation of the policy terms by Aviva;
2.a false assurance given to them at the outset regarding claim values;
3.the manner  in which their claim was processed;
4.the failure to provide key information  to them;
5.delays in processing the claim;
6.delays and the Equality Act 2010;
7.wrongful retention of premiums;
8.stacking the deck  by which Mr and Mrs E contend that there is unfair  operation of 
medical assessments, meaning a claim would be more likely refused;
9.breaches of the Equality Act 2010;
10.wider issues (their worries about the fitness  for purpose of these policies and how 
theyre operated).   
Ref: DRN66767604To resolve  their complaint, Mr and Mrs E said they wanted to be given the balance owing as 
if a claim had been accepted in 2012, with interest. To this, Mr and Mrs E wanted their 
premiums to be refunded  from September 2012  onwards. They  also believed they should be 
refunded the costs  of blood  tests  and having to seek a medical report  privately from the 
second Dr W. Finally, they believed  they should be compensated in the form of damages 
under Equality Act 2010 as they would be awarded  in a tribunal or court  that being Vento 
bands awarded for injury to feelings,  if a finding  of a breach of the Act was made.
Aviva confirmed it objected to the earlier  matters  within the first two final response letters  
being looked at, because  they were pursued  too late under the DISP rules applying  to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked at all three  of the points, noting Avivas objection.  He also agreed the 
first two complaints were pursued too late, as they had been  lodged with this service more 
than six months after the respective deadlines  set out in the letters. He said this meant  he 
could not look at issues as they related to the decline of the claim following a specific  
medical report of the first Dr W, delays in the claim being settled or the issues that Mr E said 
amounted to breaches of the Equality Act 2010.
This left the remaining  matters, in his view as being:
Avivas ultimate claims decision;
the doctors offered by Aviva to complete the independent medical report on Mrs Es 
condition;
mis-selling of the policy;
retention of the premiums from 2012 onwards;
refund  of the cost of the 2017 report;
refund  of blood test costs of 2013.
Of the points he could review, the investigator  didnt  think  the complaint  should succeed. He 
said that Aviva had been right to pay the claim when it did, and it did so in accordance with 
the policy terms. He also didnt believe Aviva had acted unfairly in its suggestions of 
appropriate consultants. Finally, he did not agree that the cost of blood tests or the private 
medical report ought to be refunded, because that was a choice for Mr and Mrs E to make.   
Mr and Mrs E wanted the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Mr E made some 
extensive submissions  about why he felt all three of his continued complaints ought to be 
considered. He also made several further  comments, noting:
the investigator did not have the correct  legal position in mind when considering the 
interpretation of the policy wording;
by quoting both clause 4(a) and clause  4(b) together in reaching his conclusion, it 
appears that (like Aviva)  the investigator  was conflating the two clauses together;
they are however separate  clauses which perform separate functions;
they are contesting the amount paid (rather  than when  it was paid), and so their 
focus is on clause  4(b);
so, when interpreting  clause 4(b), it should not be 'clouded' by thoughts  of 4(a) and 
when payment is to be made;
Ref: DRN66767605the use of the word  suffers in clause 4(b) when it is immediately  followed  by 4(c), 
which uses the term "Total Permanent Disablement", must describe a situation  which  
arises at the very outset of the claims process;
the issues they have regarding false assurances do not amount to mis-selling;
rather, Aviva misinformed Mr E during two telephone calls of October  2012  that a 
claim value will be set as at the date it is received;
Aviva  consistently blocked their choice of doctor, Dr W;
it is their understanding that it is not permissible for a financial institution to retain 
premiums received, if there was no realistic possibility of a consumer being able to 
benefit from the payment of them. They believe that principle was clearly established 
following the PPI mis-selling  scandal;
they question  what is the actual protection/benefit they were receiving in return  for 
those additional  premiums they paid,  having already submitted a valid claim under 
the policy.
The complaint was passed  to me in May 2019.  In June 2019, I issued some provisional  
comments to the parties via our investigator about  the scope of the complaint.  
I noted how, with earlier correspondence such as that of 5 April and 15 July 2013  I could see 
Mr E had asked that his and Mrs Es concerns were not treated as a complaint. However, by 
2016 matters  had changed  and Aviva treated the ongoing matters as complaints. In doing  
so, it issued three final response  letters (FRLs) to the various issues   these  were  dated 10 
August 2016,  15 September  2016  and 2 November  2017. 
I believed that all of the issues covered within Avivas FRL were complaints, when looking at 
that definition  of complaint as set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. And on 
that basis, Mr and Mrs E had six months from the date of each FRL to bring  their complaints 
to this service. 
The first two complaints  should have been referred to this service by 10 February and 15 
March 2017 respectively. Mr and Mrs E didnt refer the combined complaint here until 23 
January 2018  (at which time they cross-referenced all of the issues from 2013 to 2018). I 
concluded that the matters within the first two FRLs had been pursued  too late, and in my 
provisional view,  without any exceptional reason as to why they should be considered  now. 
I asked Mr and Mrs E to confirm if they wanted to pursue  all of the issues (in which case, 
separate jurisdiction  decisions  would be required)  or to tell us if they now no longer wished 
to pursue the matters within the first two final response letters.
Mr E replied  on behalf of Mrs E. He confirmed they both withdrew the first two complaints 
meaning they did not require any decision or further  action  on those matters. They still 
wanted the remaining issues to be addressed by an ombudsman in a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further,  Id like to thank the parties for their patience  whilst this matter  has 
awaited a decision. Id also like to pass my best wishes to Mrs E, given her circumstances.
Ref: DRN66767606Mr E has taken  the time to make exceptionally  detailed submissions in support of the 
complaint both to Aviva  and in corresponding with this service. Ive read and considered 
these carefully, including the 31-page complaint letter and its attachments. But I wont go on 
to address every distinct point thats been raised in my findings below. Similarly, I have not 
replicated each  and every point  Mr E has made in my background of the complaint  above, 
as that is intended to be a summary  of the history  leading to this decision. Instead, I have 
concentrated on what I think are the central  issues  in this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached  the same  outcome  as our investigator.  I realise that will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs E but this is our final say in the complaint. Ill set out my 
reasons below. 
I agree  with the headings used by our investigator in setting out the broad areas  of 
complaint. I will be replicating these below, though noting that some are combined where it is 
sensible to do so.  
the claims decision and the refund of premiums  
Like our investigator before me, I consider that the policy  terms are central  to the 
requirement of Aviva  to pay claims in certain specified circumstances. Those terms say, 
regarding critical illness benefit:
4(a) Provided that Critical Illness Benefit  has been  effected under the Policy and no 
Premium is due and unpaid, the Company will, subject to the Company receiving 
such proof of Total  Permanent Disablement (as defined in Condition 4(e)) or Critical 
Illness (as defined in Condition 4(d)) as it may reasonably require, then the Company 
will pay the Critical Illness Benefit. Critical Illness Benefit will not be paid in the 
circumstances described in condition 6(c).
4(b) The amount of Critical  Illness Benefit payable will be the amount that would have 
been payable  on death had death  occurred, at the time the Life Assured suffers  
Total Permanent Disablement  [my emphasis] or is diagnosed as having a Critical 
Illness.
The policy goes on to define Total and Permanent Disablement (TPD) as:
The life assured  is unable to follow his/her normal occupation as a result of sickness 
or accident and will, in the reasonable opinion of the Companys medical advisor,  
permanently continue to be totally unable to follow his/her normal  occupation, taking  
into account current medical knowledge and technology.
I do not agree with Mr E that the standpoint  from which the claim must be assessed is to 
decide if the terms are inconsistent with legislation on unfair contract  terms or any wider 
contract law. This service is required to take into account  relevant  laws, regulations, codes,  
guidance and industry standards, but we are not bound by these in the same way as a court 
may be subject to statutes, regulations, or legal  precedent. Our jurisdiction allows us to 
determine a case  on what I deem  to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of a 
complaint. In doing that, I must have due regard to both parties.
In any event, I do not consider the terms of this policy to be unfair or unreasonable.  I 
disagree with Mr and Mrs E that a reasonable interpretation of these terms is that the part is 
section 4(b) which I have  set out in bold should  be taken to mean the time at which a person 
Ref: DRN66767607begins to suffer with any condition that renders the policyholder  totally and permanently 
disabled. 
The principal  reason Mr and Mrs E say it must  be the case  that the duty to make a claim 
payment must arise at the start of any TPD or critical illness  is because  section 4(c) (not 
repeated here) requires a policyholder to notify Aviva of a claim within eight weeks  of the 
commencement of the disability.
However, I disagree that this is the correct  approach. Section 4(c) is intended to provide a 
timescale from the commencement  of TPD, which relies on the policyholder notifying Aviva 
of a claim.  But that does not mean the claim  will merely be accepted.  The terms of the policy  
must be read in full and not only as severable parts, as Mr E suggests. Clause 4(a) is also 
relevant to when  a claim is settled  even though Mr E submits  that only applies to section 
4(b). That first section makes clear that a further set of requirements in the event of a valid 
claim are given  at section 6 of the policy. Those say:
PAYMENT  OF BENEFITS
6(a) The payment of any benefit will be subject to the Company  receiving  such proof 
as it may reasonably  require of the happening or an event on which  any benefit is 
payable or the continuation of the circumstances under which  any benefit is 
payable... 
6(d) Payment of Critical Illness Benefit and Terminal Illness Benefit will be subject to 
the Company  receiving, in addition  such information  and evidence  as it may 
reasonably require, including:
(i) medical certificates and evidence  of incapacity, Terminal  Illness, Total 
Permanent Disablement or Critical Illness as the Company may 
reasonably require at the Life Assureds own expense; and
(ii) medical examinations  of and/or  tests  including blood tests on the Life 
Assured carried out at the Companys expense at such intervals as the 
Company may reasonably require by a medical examiner appointed by 
the company;  and
(iii) written consent to allow the Company  to receive the results of any 
medical examinations and/or  tests required under Condition 6(d)(ii). All 
medical certificates and the results of medical  examinations and/or 
tests
It is clear that Aviva  was entitled to satisfy  itself that Mrs Es circumstances met the policy 
definition of TPD in full. And the terms are explicit in setting out that it may require receipt  of 
medical evidence  to do so. TPD is a high bar. The insurer has to be satisfied that a 
policyholder (and its medical officer must  agree)  will be permanently unable  to follow his or 
her own occupation  again. 
I dont accept that a claim value becomes  owing  to a policyholder simply upon receipt of a 
claim. That isnt what  the policy terms set out. It is clear, when reading section 6 in 
conjunction with section 4 that as long as the policy premiums are met, a claim value will be 
paid as at the date of sufficient evidence being supplied  to meet the claim  and that Avivas  
medical officer agrees  with that.  
Ref: DRN66767608At the time it received  a report from the appointed Dr W, the policy definition of TPD was not 
met. That physician believed Mrs E could return to work in a gradual capacity. He had done 
so upon review of Mrs Es relevant medical history and in having undergone a consultation 
with her. It is not the duty of this service  to assess the expertise of one medical assessor 
over another. Dr W was suitably qualified to make  his assessment, and he was chosen from 
a list of three  given  to Mr and Mrs E.  
Aviva was entitled by the policy terms set out above to require the assessment. And having 
done so, the evidence didnt support  that Mrs E met the TPD definition.  By the time the 
second Dr W provided differing medical  evidence (having used the first report to contrast  
from), Mrs Es position  was different. There is no objective evidence that the second  Dr W 
would have given  the same report in 2013 as he did in 2017. What he did was comment on 
the difference from the first Dr Ws report. I do not accept that the report ought to be read as 
if it was given in 2013, when the policys sum assured was higher. 
Aviva was therefore correct to pay the claim when it did. And Aviva has ensured that any 
policy premium after the claims acceptance date has been  returned to Mr and Mrs E. I am 
not going to ask it to do anything further,  since  I do not agree  that a claim was payable any 
earlier than April 2017.  
I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs E, because their policy was decreasing each  
calendar year, as at the policy anniversary in November. But for the reasons I have given,  
the claim is only payable  at the time the policy definition  is met. 
TPD is one of a number of listed conditions, and certain conditions  will be evidenced more 
promptly than others  will, because some have  a long-term nature whereas others are one-off 
events, such as heart attack. I dont consider Aviva to be at fault for the nature of the claim, 
given TPD is a proposed  listed  condition within Association of British Insurers  model wording  
guidance. TPD claims can take many years  to be fully satisfied, because of the nature of the 
wording  that means the medical evidence must support a person is permanently  unable to 
go back to their occupation. 
Mrs E had managed  to return to work after her first significant period of ill health, and the first 
specialist felt she could  do so again, given  the right environment. That it has now sadly  
transpired that she cannot do so took some  time to evidence. The policys sum assured did 
unfortunately decrease during this time,  but that is not the fault of Aviva.  The policy  was set 
up to reduce proportionately in line with a mortgage, as these are inherently cheaper than 
having a level lump sum assured. 
choice of medical professionals
In essence, Mr and Mrs E say that Aviva should  have  instructed the second  Dr W initially,  
because he is the leading authority in the UK for CFS/ME.  I dont  agree  that Aviva  was unfair 
in not doing so. Its policy terms are clear that it determines the medical  evidence  it may 
reasonably require, not the policyholder. I would still expect an insurer to behave fairly in 
applying those terms, but I believe Aviva did so. It removed the first proposed  consultant at 
Mr and Mrs Es request and offered another. It then agreed to waive that second  consultant  
and seek more information from Mrs Es treating consultant, but this lacked the required 
detail regarding the permanency of Mrs E to return to her own occupation again.   
Aviva then gave Mr and Mrs E the choice of three further suitably qualified physicians, even 
though it was not an express condition or requirement of the policy  terms. That Mr and Mrs E 
Ref: DRN66767609disagreed with the report the first Dr W produced  doesnt mean he was an unsuitable choice. 
He was a suitably qualified medical expert, and he undertook two rounds of further  
correspondence to address Mr Es specific concerns about his knowledge, understanding  of 
CFS/ME and his impartiality. I have  no reason to believe  that the first Dr W acted unfairly or 
that Aviva  was inappropriate in suggesting  him as a choice for Mr and Mrs E. 
Ive also looked  at the correspondence where  Mr E feels they were  blocked from instructing 
Mr E in the first instance. Again, I dont believe Aviva unreasonably exercised  its requirement  
to appoint an examiner  that followed NICE pathways, as this is a recognised  industry 
standard. There is no provision within the policy for Mr and Mrs E to choose their own 
expert. 
I therefore do not believe this complaint point should succeed. 
refund of costs for blood tests and the medical report  
I realise Mr and Mrs E went on to instruct the second Dr W because  they felt he was best 
placed to provide the evidence they needed.  But that was a matter  for them.  Section  6(d)(i) 
states how any evidence  of incapacity sought should be at the Life Assureds own expense. 
Similarly, that they felt it appropriate to obtain an ATP profile test was a matter of their 
choosing. It was not requested by Aviva at any point.  I do not believe Aviva ought to return  
either of those costs  to Mr and Mrs E.  
false assurances  
Mr and Mrs E have  now clarified that the misinformation they refer to isnt what they were 
told at the outset of the policy. To reiterate,  if that was the case, theyd need to approach the 
business that sold them the policy about  any concerns they may have about the sales  
process. 
What Mr E says now is that Aviva  was going to use any delays arising to significantly 
devalue their claim. They submit that the financial impact of the passage of time should have 
been clearly explained to them at the outset. It should also have been reiterated to them  
during the claims  process, as and when delays arose. Further Mr E believes as at 22 
October 2012 a conversation was held where he was informed the claims value would be 
the sum assured at that time.  There is no recording of that call for me to review.  
Firstly, I cannot  consider the wider issue of delays here. That was addressed in the 2016 
final responses from Aviva, and these are not the subject of this third, distinct  complaint. 
Secondly, I do not believe that there is objective  evidence of Aviva  attempting  to ensure Mr 
and Mrs E received  a lower sum assured  or that it misled them as to the amount theyd 
receive. 
As Ive set out earlier in this decision, I believe that the policy  wording is clear and 
understandable. And that wording explains how a claim will be paid on receipt  of satisfactory 
evidence of total and permanent disablement. The wording must be read along with the 
policy schedule, and Mr and Mrs E were given a copy of this from the outset. The schedule  
(on the first page) says that the sum assured payable for any valid claim will be the reducing 
amount shown in the table of benefits.  This is the decreasing type of protection  policy  that 
reduces broadly in line with a capital  repayment mortgage. And Aviva paid the correct claims 
value as at the relevant date. 
Ref: DRN667676010Mr E says now that he and Mrs E had a duty to be kept informed that they could  lose 
£30,000 because  of the time taken to settle  the claim. But Aviva couldnt  have  known that at 
the time the claims  process  began. It had a duty to meet the claim in accordance with the 
terms. It couldnt say from the outset  when that might be or even if it would certainly  be 
settled as not all claims  are valid claims. I dont agree Mr and Mrs E have been  misled about 
the nature  of the value  of their claim, or that Aviva has set out to devalue it in any way. I 
have seen no clear  evidence of that. Again, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
my final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Es circumstances, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. I 
do not find Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances of processing Mrs Es TPD claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6676760