K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by Mrs G in her capacity as Executrix of the estate of the late 
Mrs M. Mrs Gs complaint  is that a home  reversion plan was mis-sold to her mother, Mrs M, 
in 2001 by a business  now known as Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited. To settle the 
complaint, Mrs G wants Phoenix to pay its share of the sale proceeds of Mrs Ms home  - 
£292,807.09  into Mrs Ms estate.
background
In 2001 Mrs M took out a home reversion plan with Phoenix.  A home reversion plan allows  a 
consumer to sell all or part of their home to a plan provider in return for a cash  lump  sum,  a 
regular income, or (a combination of) both.
In return for a small lump  sum of £496  for home  repairs and a monthly income of £850 for 
life, Mrs M, then aged 81, agreed to sell 58.230% of her home  to Phoenix. In return,  Mrs M 
was able to live in the property rent free for the rest of her life. Phoenix wasnt  allowed to sell 
the property until Mrs M died or needed  to go into long-term care.
With this type of plan there is no interest  to pay. Although Mrs M retained  an interest in the 
equity in the property, she no longer owned  it. This meant that Mrs M couldnt  sell the 
property without Phoenixs consent.  
I am sorry  to note that Mrs M passed away in July 2016. Overall,  I have calculated that she 
received about  £154,000 from the date she took out the plan until the date of her death, 
being £850 per month since May 2001.  
The property was placed on the market  by an asset  manager on behalf of Phoenix in 
January 2017.  After  several buyers pulled out of the sale, the property was sold for £515,000 
in June 2017.
The asset managers fee (including  estate  agents  commission) was 1.66% of the sale price, 
plus VAT. This amounted to £10,352.24. This was divided according to the split in the 
equitable interests in the property, with Phoenix paying 58.23% and Mrs Ms estate paying 
41.77%. The legal fees were £1,802, which were also divided in the same way between 
Phoenix and the estate.
On 18 August 2018 Phoenix received a complaint from Mrs G on behalf of the estate. Mrs G 
says that the home reversion plan had been  mis-sold to Mrs M, for the following reasons:
Mrs M was 81 at the time of the sale in 2001, and didnt understand financial matters;
she didnt receive any independent advice  before entering  into the plan;
it was inappropriate  for Mrs M to stay in such a large property which needed extensive 
maintenance;
Phoenix didnt  advise her on any alternative  way of raising funds;
Mrs M wasnt advised about the implications of the monthly income on her entitlement  to 
NHS benefits.
Mrs G was also unhappy about the fees charged by the asset managers on sale of the 
property and wants those  to be reimbursed.
Ref: DRN60866912Phoenix didnt  uphold the complaint, so it was brought  to us. An adjudicator  looked  at it, but 
he didnt think Phoenix had either mis-sold  the plan or should refund any of the asset  
managers fees. He confirmed Mrs M had received independent advice from her own 
solicitors.
Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicator and asked  for an ombudsman  to review  the complaint. 
Shes made the following  points:
Mrs M wouldnt have fully understood how the plan would affect  her benefits;
she wasnt given independent  financial advice;
although there was no requirement  at the time for Mrs M to have independent  
financial advice, it is now a legal  requirement to make sure independent advice is 
given;
the fact that it wasnt a legal requirement at the time doesnt excuse Phoenixs  poor 
practice;
Phoenix took advantage of Mrs M because she was elderly and lacked financial 
knowledge;
Mrs G believes  she was targeted by Phoenix  and persuaded to take out the equity 
release.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Under our rules,  we can consider a complaint  from a consumer. Mrs M was a consumer, and 
so met the definition  of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the purposes of this 
complaint, the rules  say that a complaint may be brought on behalf  of an eligible  complainant  
by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, 
Mrs G is bringing  the complaint on the estates behalf, and as Executrix  she is authorised by 
law to do so.
But I must explain that, although  Mrs G is representing her mothers  estate,  it is Mrs M who 
was Phoenixs customer  (or at least was at the time of the events complained  about). 
Mrs Gs role is to bring Mrs Ms complaint on her estates behalf,  in the same way that other 
consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor  or accountant to represent them  in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mrs G to air her own grievances about Phoenix,  because  she is not 
its customer; her role is limited  to putting  forward the estates  complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence  that Mrs G has expressed her own concerns about  
what she perceives to be Phoenixs failings  and I do not doubt her strength of feeling about 
this. But because Mrs G is not Phoenixs customer,  her own concerns  about Phoenix dont 
form part of this complaint.
Mrs M hadnt  complained  about the plan previously,  and it seems  that it was only when 
Mrs G looked closer  at her mothers financial affairs after she died that a complaint was 
raised with Phoenix. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the plan. Without a 
specific complaint from Mrs M about  it, I have  considered generally whether Phoenix did 
anything wrong  when the plan was taken out.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
Ref: DRN60866913and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
Ive reviewed the documentation  from the time the plan was taken out in 2001. This was 
before home reversion  plans became regulated  on 6 April 2007.  Because this plan included  
an investment element,  it falls within our jurisdiction.
Having looked  at the information provided by Mrs M about her circumstances in 2001,  Im 
satisfied the recommendation for the home reversion plan was suitable.  It provided her with 
additional income and enabled her to stay in her home. The equity share was not 
disproportionate to the benefit  received  by Mrs M. Although there were other providers who 
sold different types of equity release mortgages, Phoenixs adviser was under no obligation 
to give Mrs M advice  about products sold by other companies. 
Nor was Phoenixs  adviser required to give Mrs M advice about state benefits. This is a 
complex area and so I would not expect  a financial adviser to be able to give advice about 
this; instead I would expect the adviser to recognise  where a customer might need  specialist 
advice and direct them  to the appropriate  agency. This is what  Phoenixs adviser  did.
It is also not correct  as Mrs G asserts  that there  is now a legal requirement for a 
customer whos received  advice about  equity  release or home reversion plans to take 
additional independent financial advice. (The customer can, of course, do so if they want  to, 
but that would be at their own discretion. 
There is, however, a requirement  as there was in 2001  for customers to receive 
independent legal advice. I can see that Mrs M consulted her own solicitors, who confirmed 
that theyd gone through  the documents with her and explained the implications of entering 
into the plan.
There is nothing in the documentation- either  from Phoenix or Mrs Ms own solicitors   to 
suggest Mrs M was unable to understand the terms of the plan. As her solicitor has 
confirmed the terms were explained to Mrs M, I am entitled to conclude  from the solicitors  
letter that he had no concerns about  her mental  capacity or level of understanding.
It was up to Mrs M to decide  whether or not she wanted to remain  in her home.  it would have 
been inappropriate for Phoenix  to have attempted to persuade  Mrs M that she should sell 
her home and downsize or rent out a room  in her home to a lodger to raise extra income.  
Such matters are outside the scope of the financial advice Phoenix  was asked to provide 
and are, in my opinion, better left for family discussions.
Although Mrs G says Mrs M was vulnerable , the mere fact that she was 81 at the time she 
took out the plan does not in and of itself render Mrs M vulnerable. Indeed,  these plans are 
designed for elderly customers who have equity in their homes but little or no disposable 
income.  That is why there  is the extra safeguard built in of the need for independent  legal 
advice. There is no suggestion  in any of the paperwork  that Mrs M had any mental or 
physical impairment  that would,  or should,  have alerted Phoenix to any issues surrounding 
her capacity to enter into the agreement. Mrs M confirmed to Phoenix that she was in 
reasonable health for her age. 
Overall, Im satisfied the home reversion plan wasnt mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN60866914With regard to the asset managers costs,  being  1.66%  of the sale price, these do not 
appear to me to be excessive or disproportionate, particularly as estate agents fees are 
generally in the range  of 1-2%  of the sale price, plus VAT. I can see no basis upon which it 
would be fair or reasonable to order Phoenix to reimburse them.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G, on behalf 
of the estate, to accept  or reject  my decision before 10 July 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6086691