K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Briefly:
In 2000 Mr J took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a credit card by postal 
application.
The policy provided  protection for Mr Js credit card payments in the event he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay a benefit  of 10% of the 
monthly outstanding  card balance and would do so for up to 12 months per claim. It cost 89 
pence for every £100 Mr J owed on the card and the payments did attract interest.
At the time of the sale Mr J was employed and he said he was entitled to sick pay of less than 
three months pay and he had about  three months pay in savings. He also said he was in 
good health at the time.
Capital Ones records show Mr J paid total PPI premiums of less than £100 and the credit 
card account  ended in 2003.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mr J chose to 
take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him.
Because Mr J disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding Mr Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mr J have a choice about PPI?  
I think Capital One made  it clear  that Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Capital One has provided a copy of Mr Js credit card application. Looking at this I can see Mr 
J was provided with equally prominent  Yes  and No options for PPI and he ticked  the Yes 
box. Because of the way PPI was set out in the application and because  he had to tick a box 
to take it out Im not persuaded  Mr J would have been under the impression he had to take it 
out. Im mindful too that this was a postal  application  with no interaction  with a member  of 
Capital Ones staff.
So, in light of the above Im satisfied Mr J chose and agreed to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN66999122the information   
Capital One didnt recommend PPI to Mr J  Ive already said that there was no staff 
interaction with Mr J and therefore  no opportunity for it to give him advice. So, Capital One 
didnt have to ensure  PPI was right for Mr J. But it did have to give him enough clear and 
timely information about it so he could make an informed decision.
Mr Js credit card application didnt say much  about PPI  it referred  him to an accompanying 
leaflet. I dont know exactly what was contained  with this leaflet, but it wouldve likely given Mr 
J more information  about the policy and what it provided. Given  Mr J applied for his card and 
PPI in his own time, I find it unlikely  he went ahead without  knowing something about the 
cover. Nevertheless, I accept its possible the information Capital One gave Mr J about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.
But as I found  above, Mr J chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And based on his circumstances at the time it doesnt appear  that it was inappropriate for him 
- for example he was eligible for the cover; he didnt have significant existing means he 
couldve used to make  his card payments; and he wasnt affected  by the significant exclusions 
on or limits to the cover  - so it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So, I dont  think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr J off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While Capital One might  not have done everything it should  fairly  and reasonably  have done 
when it sold Mr J PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time I think he would still have gone 
ahead and taken  out PPI had Capital One done anything more.
This means  I dont  think Mr J has lost out as a result of having PPI, so Capital One doesnt 
have to pay back to Mr J what he paid for PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020. .
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6699912