K821x#15Complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the quality of the vehicle he hired under a hire agreement with 
Lex Autolease Ltd. He said the issues left him with no choice but to terminate his agreement 
early and he then incurred costs because of this. 
Background
Mr P entered into a three year hire agreement with Lex Autolease  to hire a new 
vehicle. He experienced a number of issues with the vehicle  which meant it was 
returned on several occasions for repairs. In December 2018, Mr P contacted  
Lex Autolease to discuss the early termination  of his hire agreement  due to the 
amount of repairs the vehicle had needed.  An early termination quote  was provided. 
At this time Mr P raised his complaint. 
Mr P terminated his agreement in January  2019,  before he had received a response  
to his complaint.  Mr P raised  further complaints regarding  the information  he had 
received and service  he had been provided.
Lex Autolease said Mr P raised his complaint on 2 January  2019 about having to 
make repeat  trips for repairs.  It said it wasnt required  to provide a replacement  
vehicle under the hire agreement. It said Mr P arranged to terminate his agreement 
early before  it had responded  to his complaint. It upheld his complaint and provided 
£150 in recognition of the number of faults  Mr Ps vehicle had experience in a short 
period of time. 
Mrs P, acting  for Mr P, then contacted it to raise another  complaint. Lex Autolease  
accepted it could have provided  better  service  and provided £25 to reflect the limited  
contact during the first complaint. 
Mr P raised a third complaint about  not receiving  the requested  call recordings. 
Lex Autolease accepted  these  werent  provided  in a timely  way and offered to pay 
£50 to reflect the poor communication. 
Lex Autolease accepted that there were issues but said these had all been 
reasonably addressed.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  this complaint should be upheld. He 
said that the car had spent a lot of time in the garage for repairs  and recommended 
that Mr P be refunded  rentals to reflect  the time he was without the vehicle. He also 
thought the vehicle  wasnt sufficiently  durable given the number  of faults. Because  of 
this he thought Lex Autolease should have given  Mr P the opportunity to reject the 
car and so he should be refunded the costs of early termination. He didnt think the 
compensation offered by Lex Autolease was sufficient to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr P had been  caused  and recommended this was increased to £400.
Lex Autolease didnt agree. It didnt accept that the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality and also said it hadnt been  allowed the opportunity to undertake a repair for 
the issue that arose in May 2018.  Therefore it didnt  accept that Mr P should have 
been allowed  to reject the vehicle. It said it wasnt involved in arranging  the repairs  
and that Mr P didnt  accept the option to wait until a courtesy car was available  so it 
didnt think it should be liable for any loss of use.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
Ref: DRN68049022inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. Having done so, Ive decided this complaint should be upheld for 
these reasons: 
Mr P needed his vehicle to be reliable. He experienced a number of issues and 
Lex Autolease acknowledged  that Mr P had experienced a number of issues  in a 
short period. Given his experience, I can understand why Mr P felt he needed  to exit 
the agreement  early. 
It was Mr Ps choice to terminate the agreement early. I have listened to the call on 
which he asks about the cost of early termination  and he is given the amounts that 
will be due depending on when the termination takes place. This is followed up with 
an early termination  quotation. I note Mr Ps comments about the last months 
payment but I do not find that based  on the information I have seen, Mr P was 
provided with incorrect information  about  the amount  he would need to pay.
Our investigator thought that Mr P should have  been provided with the option  to 
reject the vehicle due to the issues he experienced. I have carefully considered  this. 
In order for me to say a rejection  should  have been offered, I would need to be 
satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I have 
considered this in the context of the relevant regulations as well as what I consider is 
fair and reasonable given the unique circumstances of this case.
The vehicle was new at the point of entering into the hire agreement so it would be 
expected to be free from faults, including  minor  defects. It would also be expected to 
be sufficiently durable. 
The first issues were  raised in December  2016;  around six months  after Mr P took 
delivery of the car. The issues related to a door seal and a rattling noise from the 
seat. These were  relatively minor issues but I wouldnt have expected  Mr P to have  
experienced issues such as these at this time. I find it more likely than not that these  
issues were due to faults present at the point of supply and so the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality. In circumstances such as these, repair  is an acceptable  remedy.  
In this case, Mr P accepted the repairs and I understand repairs were undertaken 
under warranty and so at no cost to Mr P. I have nothing  to suggest these werent 
successful. Therefore I find this a reasonable remedy to these issues.
The next issue was raised in January 2018.  At this time the vehicle had been driven 
around 8,700 miles. The rear brakes  were  squeaking and the car was booked in for 
repairs in February.  An issue with the key was also raised but no fault found. There  
was then a further noise and in May 2018 the front brake pads were replaced. Brakes 
would normally be considered serviceable items although I note that the brake pads 
did need to be changed at a relatively low mileage. The brake  pads were  replaced 
under warranty but I can understand why Mr P was becoming  concerned  with the 
number of issues he was experiencing.  
In May 2018, Mr P reported a noise and vibration when turning. This was 
investigated and water was found  in the haldex. Mr P had hired  a new car and he 
would expect it to be sufficiently durable. In the first two and half years, having driven 
around 11,500  miles, he had experienced issues with the seat and door seal and 
Ref: DRN68049023both rear and front brakes. While these issues were rectified he then experienced an 
issue with the haldex. 
Given the relatively low mileage that had been driven at this point I do not find that it 
is reasonable to accept that issues with the haldex should have arisen. By this time 
Mr P had experienced a number of issues that I wouldnt have  expected on a car of 
Mr Ps age and mileage.  Therefore,  on balance, I do not find that the car was 
sufficiently durable.  And therefore not of satisfactory quality. 
A repair was attempted on the haldex but this didnt resolve the issue  and so a 
further repair was needed in November  2018. While I note the comments  made by 
Lex Autolease about the repair I do not find that this changes  the underlying  concern 
that the car supplied wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  The failed repair added further 
inconvenience to Mr P. Given the issues he experienced I do not find the car was 
sufficiently durable and so I find that he should  have  been  given  the option to reject 
the car.
I accept that Mr P decided to carry out the early termination while his complaint was 
being investigated. However, I as find that before  this time, he should  have been 
given the option  of rejecting the vehicle, I find that he shouldnt be liable for the costs  
of the early termination. I also find it reasonable that the portion of his advance rental 
attributed to the unused portion of his hire agreement  is refunded.  
Mr P was caused inconvenience as he had to return  the vehicle on a number of 
occasions and I find it reasonable  he is compensated for the time he was without the 
vehicle. While an offer of compensation was made, given the issues  Mr P experience 
I do not find this sufficient and agree with our investigators recommendation of 
increased compensation.
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order  to resolve Mr Ps 
complaint, Lex Autolease  Ltd should:
refund  the cost of early termination paid by Mr P;
reimburse Mr P for 24 days  loss of use;
refund  6 months advance rental
increase the total amount to £400
remove any negative impact relating to this agreement from Mr Ps credit file (if 
applicable).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6804902