K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mrs R says AXA France  IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs R didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. I say this because to get the cover, Mrs R had to tick a box for it on the 
application form for the store card. The box is ticked and Mrs R has signed  for the credit 
which denotes  her agreement to the forms contents. So, if Mrs R had only wanted the 
credit, she could have  left the PPI section  blank. 
AXA told us the policy would have been sold without advice. Mrs R has provided no 
testimony about whether advice was given.  I have seen no evidence  of a detailed 
recommendation having been  made to Mrs R in this sale.  So, considering all the 
submissions made  in this case, and in the absence of any detailed  testimony  from Mrs R 
to the contrary,  it seems most  likely that AXA didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs R. So, it 
didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs 
R enough clear  and timely information  so she could decide  for herself  it was right for her.
Ref: DRN69836952Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs R. Mrs R told us she 
had some sick pay she could have relied on but that it only lasted for six months at her 
full rate of pay. The PPI could have  paid out in addition to Mrs Rs sick pay and for longer 
than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay. Mrs R told us she had 
some death in service  benefits  at work, but this wouldnt have helped  her if she was too 
ill to work  or lost her job. Mrs R told us she would have been entitled to a payment in the 
event she was made redundant. But the policy would have reduced her reliance  on that 
payment in the event she lost her job. And Mrs R told us she had no savings and no 
other insurance she could  use to make her repayments in the event of long-term ill 
health, or if she lost her job. Although  Mrs R says she had a medical  condition  some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont  think better information about the existing medical  
condition exclusion wouldve caused her to change her mind  about taking out the policy.  
I say this because  Mrs Rs angina  occurred the year before the sale and Mrs R told us 
that at that time it had cost her no more than a week off work and that it was treated with 
some medication. Mrs R has provided no detailed testimony about the condition and 
theres no testimony that it had caused her ongoing issues or any significant time off 
work in the intervening year before  the sale, such that she may have thought this to be 
the main reason she might need  to be off work for over the 30 days  required to start 
making a claim under  this policy. It also looks like the cover was affordable   so it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. Because of this I dont 
think Mrs R would have declined the cover had AXA done anything  more.
While  the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mrs Rs circumstances  at the time of sale and despite 
its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for 
her. So, I think she would have still thought she had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out.
Mrs R said she would  have turned 60 while the policy was in force  and so she would 
have not been eligible for the cover  from that time. However, Mrs R was 40 at the time of 
the sale and the policy would have  covered  Mrs R until the age of 65. So, there  were  
many years of cover available to Mrs R under the policy.  So, I do not believe that better  
information about this would have  led her to avoid the policy.  
Overall, I consider that Mrs R would  have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Rs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN69836953I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Rs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2021 .
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6983695