K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about  the handling of a claim made  under their St Andrews 
Insurance Plc (SAI)  policy. The claim was made for water damage to their home and they 
are unhappy  with many aspects of the handling,  most especially that SAI asked them  to 
move back  into their property when they considered  that it was not fully repaired and was 
uninhabitable.
In addition, Mr and Mrs M are looking to sell the property and are unhappy about the lack of 
certificates and warranties that will be provided to them when the repairs  are complete. Most 
notable of these  are that they have been  told that to be able to sell the property they will 
need a drying  certificate and guarantee for underpinning  that they understand has been put 
under the party wall as part of the repairs done  to their neighbours property.
background
In late 2015 Mr and Mrs Ms home  suffered damage following water ingress from their 
neighbours property. SAI put Mr and Mrs M into alternative accommodation  and waited for 
the problems next door to be resolved so that it could repair the property. It was around two 
years later that SAI was told that it was thought  the source of the water ingress had been 
identified and repairs completed to stop any further  ingress.
SAI completed drying works to the property, but was unable to completely dry one wall in the 
shower room/toilet. The moisture  levels in it had reduced significantly, but it remained damp.  
The drying company  concluded that as that wall remained damp and the other walls had 
dried satisfactorily, it was likely that wall had always had damp issues. It concluded that the 
property was dry enough to allow repairs, but said the wall in question  had only dried to pre-
damage moisture levels, rather than being completely dry.
A scope  of works was drawn  up and the repairs were scheduled for 16 weeks.  However,  
there were problems with contractors and they had to be replaced. The works  did, however, 
progress with the final contractor and were  almost complete at the point SAI had set for 
Mr and Mrs M to return home. The outstanding works were  relatively  minor  and didnt  mean 
that the property  was uninhabitable. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree to move  back into the property. They raised concerns about the 
condition of the property, including damp and mould upstairs, the safety  of the cooker and 
the toilet not working. SAI confirmed that the cooker had been tested and was safe and that 
the toilet would be working by the time they moved back in, but Mr and Mrs M didnt accept  
this and didnt  move back home. 
Mr and Mrs M remained in the alternative  accommodation SAI had put them in, despite the 
fact that it had stopped paying the rent. They also removed the unsafe' cooker and placed it 
outside the property. Mr and Mrs M complained and then referred their complaint to this 
service.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but agreement couldnt be reached.  As 
such the case was passed to me to consider. I did so and issued my provisional decision on 
13 December 2018. A copy  of the content  of that document  is attached to and forms part of 
this decision. 
Ref: DRN69967502In summary,  my key conclusion was that I found  that the property was habitable at the point 
SAI asked Mr and Mrs M to move back.  I was satisfied that there  were  functional and safe 
cooking and bathing/toilet facilities. Therefore, I didnt consider that SAI needed to pay 
anything more for alternative accommodation.
In relation to the remainder of the repairs needed, I was satisfied that it was reasonable that 
SAI settle this in cash, rather than sending contractors back to the property. This was 
because I was persuaded by the evidence that Mr and Mrs M had displayed behaviour and 
used language to SAIs  staff and contractors that was entirely inappropriate. In the 
circumstances I didnt  think  it unreasonable for SAI to refuse  to send in contractors to finish 
the works  still outstanding. 
I also didnt think SAI had been wrong to settle this in cash  for the replacement  cooker. The 
cooker had been  damaged by its contractor  and it had rightly  offered to replace it. When  
Mr and Mrs M didnt  want the nearest equivalent cooker available, SAI said they could 
choose an alternative within the budget. Mr and Mrs M did so, but wanted  a cooker that 
needed additional electrical  work done for its installation, which SAI was not willing to do. 
When progress couldnt be made  on the issue, SAI gave Mr and Mrs M the money  so that 
they could do whatever  they wanted at their own convenience. In the meantime it reinstalled 
the old cooker so they had cooking facilities.  
Mr and Mrs M had then given approximately two-thirds  of that money  to the contractor in 
cash, telling  it that it had to provide the new cooker.  Whilst the contractor had taken the 
money so that it wasnt left in an empty property, it didnt do anything  with that money. SAI 
had said that Mr and Mrs M needed to approach  the contractor  to take back  the money.  
However, it came to light that the cash amount had been offset against the contractors bill 
and so the money needed to be refunded by SAI, not by the contractor. I said that SAI 
should do so.
There were also additional repairs that Mr and Mrs M asked that SAI pay for. I wasnt  
persuaded that the evidence indicated that SAI was liable  for any of those repairs. 
I noted Mr and Mrs Ms comments  about the drying  certificate and the wall that didnt 
completely dry  that which SAIs experts considered was likely suffering from rising  damp.  
Firstly, despite what Mr and Mrs M have  been  told by the estate agent they spoke to, it 
would be unusual for a consumer to be given the drying  certificate produced for a claim such  
as theirs.  So even  if one were available, I wouldnt have expected SAI to give it to 
Mr and Mrs M. 
In relation to Mr and Mrs Ms statement that the wall SAIs expert thought was suffering  from 
rising damp is now dry, I said that I had seen  nothing that indicated there was a second 
source of water from the neighbours property. Nor had I seen any evidence  that the wall in 
question was by then dry. Indeed, I thought that it was unlikely  that this could  be established 
given the wall was tiled. That said, even if there  had been a second source of water, I 
couldnt find SAI had done  anything  wrong.  It had been told that the necessary repairs  had 
been done and the water ingress stopped.  It was reasonably for it to rely on this information.  
In relation to the damp issues in the upper part of Mr and Mrs Ms home, I explained  that I 
understood they were due to a problem with the roof. As this was nothing  to do with the 
claim SAI was dealing  with, it wasnt responsible for the damage or repair  of it. I also wasnt 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs M hadnt been able to complete maintenance  on their home. 
Whilst they had been  asked not to go into the property  during the repairs  (there  was no 
Ref: DRN69967503restriction for the years before that) they hadnt  complied with that restriction.  So I concluded 
that they could  have  known about  the issue and dealt with it, had they wanted  to.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept my conclusions. They provided their further comment  regarding  
drying of the property  and their recollections of the discussions that had taken place with 
various parties. They provided a telephone recording of Mr M speaking to a subcontractor  of 
the drying company.
In relation to the report from the Gas Safe engineer, Mr and Mrs M have said that they didnt 
know him personally; he was found though colleagues.  Whilst they gave him access  to the 
property, neither of them  was present  when  the inspection was done. They dont  think  it is 
relevant whether he is employed or a self-employed subcontractor.
They stated  the individual  is a Gas Safe registered  and even if he only carried  out a visual  
inspection of the cooker, he would have been able to see the poor condition it was in. He 
was qualified to make a judgement. The condition of the cooker  being that it was severely  
twisted with doors that dont seal and fur and mould  growing in the oven. Mr and Mrs M said 
that they are willing to pay the costs of an independent engineer  appointed  by the 
ombudsman to inspect  the cooker as the simplest way of resolving the issue.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they wanted a cooker that had a gas cut-off  lid like their 
existing cooker had. They found  one, but were  told that as the kitchen  had already been  
fitted and the floor tiled, it was too small for the space. As such, Mr and Mrs M found an 
electric cooker instead. They were  told that this would need there to be a change to the 
electrical supply, which  they were  unaware  of, and that SAI wouldnt do that work. At that 
point they simply suggested  reverting back to the smaller and cheaper cooker. 
In relation to the removal of the cooker from the kitchen, Mr and Mrs M have said this was 
done by the carpenter  who was installing the kitchen, not them.  The cooker was to be moved 
to the sun room, but was told by the carpenter that the carpet for that room was being 
delivered that day, so the cooker was put in the garden. After  a couple of days  of no carpet 
being delivered, Mrs M asked the contractors to move the cooker back  into the sun room. 
That is where the cooker remained until it was inspected.
Mr M also said that he contacted a large  gas supplied and servicing company and asked it if 
leaving that type of cooker outside for a few days would cause any deterioration  or damage. 
It said that the cooker would have to be outside  for some months to cause damage and even 
then it would depend on the time of year and weather conditions. Mr and Mrs M pointed out 
that the weather had been mild at the time  spring into summer. No evidence  direct from 
the company was provided, only Mr Ms recollections of the telephone call.
Mr and Mrs M then said that over the period of the claim  SAI had moved  the cooker around 
the house and into the garden.  They said that it was left in the garden for some considerable 
time and used as a saw bench  and tea-making  surface through all weather conditions. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs M believe that unless  SAI can prove that the cooker had been 
inspected it cant be evidenced that it was safe and, therefore, shouldnt  be used. Mr and 
Mrs M also alleged that the contracts  manager from SAIs contractor told them  that the 
cooker hadnt been inspected.
In response to my comments  about  the Gas Safe Register, Mr and Mrs M said that new gas 
supply pipes were  installed and this would be considered  a new installation  that had to be 
Ref: DRN69967504registered. They said that the Gas Safe engineer who installed the boiler  also installed the 
new pipework. However, Mr and Mrs Ms recollections are that the engineer refused to install 
or register the cooker. They  reiterated that they had proven  that no cooker  installation  had 
been notified to the register.
As for the money  being given to the contractor to buy a new cooker,  Mr and Mrs M have said 
that the claim handler at SAI told them to do so. She also told them to keep the balance as 
the replacement  cooker  they wanted was cheaper. Mr M has said that at no time did he say 
that he would leave the money in the house. The contracts manager simply took the money 
and said he would deal with it.
SAI was subsequently asked for the claim handlers comments. In response she provided us 
with her email of 19 April 2018  to Mr M. In that email she asks why Mr M gave the contracts 
manager the money and, if he were returning  the money paid to him, why he hadnt  returned 
it all.
In relation to the allegation  of inappropriate behaviour, Mr and Mrs M say that this is totally 
untrue. They  believe  that it is a desperate attempt by SAI to get out of fulfilling its obligation 
to complete the works.  The email that was referenced in my provisional decision was purely  
in relation to what  Mr and Mrs M believe were  false statements made by SAI and its 
contractors regarding the drying of the property  by a subcontractor, which  were  by the 
subcontractors own admissions, false. Their  relationship with all operatives  on site was 
always friendly on both sides.
However, Mr and Mrs M believe  that SAI fabricated  drying evidence to allow  it to carry out 
repairs earlier than it should have. They dont think anything should  have been done to the 
property until October  2018,  whereas the repairs started in January 2018. 
Mr and Mrs M said that the damage to the front hardstanding had been caused by the 
second of SAIs contractors. That contractor was also doing works  on the neighbouring  
property and moved the portaloo onto their property to hide the damage itd done. They said 
that the uneven step had nothing to do with broken paving  slabs.  
In respect of the before  photograph of the garden provided by Mr and Mrs M, they 
apologised as they had provided a photograph from 2013 in error. They  provided new 
photographs from 2015. These  show the fences in a better condition than the more recent 
photographs Mr and Mrs M had provided,  but do show some  damage  and deterioration.  
They also say that both the second and third contractors had access to the rear gate and 
both used it to clear debris from the back of the house. 
They also provided  evidence from a lender, which is part of the same  group of companies as 
SAI, saying that it would  require  evidence  that any underpinning had been supervised by a 
suitably qualified engineer before lending on such a property. SAI had failed to provide 
suitable documentation to them. 
The claim handler from SAI had them sign authorisation for the insurer to act as their 
representative in relation  to the party wall act. Mr and Mrs M say that SAI attempted to 
mislead them as to its obligations and responsibility regarding the party wall works and 
attempted to ignore the party wall act. By persuading them  to sign the authority SAI was able 
to flout the regulations in an attempt  to push the works through faster  and without following 
the correct procedures. I asked Mr and Mrs M to clarify what regulations SAI had flouted  
and how. They didnt  provide a response, so I wont comment on this matter in my findings.
Ref: DRN69967505Mr and Mrs M have  said that they have  legal expenses cover with their policy.  They  have 
spoken to the provider  and it has carried its own assessment and believes that SAI has a 
case to answer. It has agreed  to pay all legal  expenses  to in pursuing  SAI as it has been 
negligent and has failed to carry out its duties. Mr and Mrs M said that they would be moving 
forward with litigation against SAI. We explained  that we would not move forward  with our 
consideration of the complaint if legal action was being taken  against  SAI. We asked 
Mr and Mrs M to confirm  whether they had started legal action. Mr and Mrs M didnt respond 
to this question.  However, other  comments indicate  that court proceedings against SAI have 
not been started.
It was reiterated that the water problem in the neighbouring property wasnt fixed  when SAI 
was led to believe it was. It wasnt sorted  out until November 2018. By commencing  the 
works when  SAI did, without properly drying  the property, there is the possibility  that the 
repairs might  fail. We asked Mr and Mrs M to provide any documentary evidence  they had 
that the problem with the neighbouring property wasnt  resolved until late 2018. They  
provided a written statement from their neighbour. 
In relation to them dealing  with the maintenance works that were needed to their roof and 
first floor of their home, they say that they were continually told that they werent allowed to 
bring their own contractors into the property when SAIs contractors were there. So they had 
no way of maintaining  their property. to evidence this, Mr and Mrs M provided an email from 
the claim handler at SAI dated 9 April 2018  where  she says that their builders would be 
unable to start work until SAIs had finished and cleared the site. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mr and Mrs Ms 
further submissions,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I would apologise  for not being clear  in my provisional decision background  when I said 
that approximately two years after the claim had been made SAI had been notified  that 
repairs had been  completed. What I meant was that repairs to stop the water ingress had 
been completed. This was not meant to indicate  that the water damage to the neighbours 
property had been repaired.
On that note, I think it would be appropriate  at this point to comment  on Mr and Mrs Ms 
comments about when  repairs started in their home.  I havent  seen  any formal 
documentation evidencing  that the cause of water  ingress to the neighbours property wasnt 
found and fixed  until the autumn/winter of 2018. However, I have no reason to doubt  the 
neighbours statement about  this. 
SAI was told that the problem had been resolved much earlier than the neighbour is now 
saying it was. SAI had no reason to question what it was being told. Indeed,  it appears  that 
the neighbours insurer also believed  the problem had been resolved as it started the 
structural repairs to the property much earlier than the now reported resolution  date.  I cant  
find that SAI acted inappropriately in starting  the repair process  for Mr and Mrs Ms home  
when it had been told it was appropriate  to do so. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they believe SAI fabricated  drying  evidence  to allow it to start to 
repair the property  before it should  have. They provided a recording of a telephone 
Ref: DRN69967506conversation between Mr M and a subcontractor  that he was told was involved in the drying 
process. They say that this evidences that SAI didnt dry the property as the subcontractor 
said that he did nothing  in the property.
I have listened  to the conversation and I have some concerns. Firstly, Mr M didnt tell the 
individual he was speaking  to that he was recording  the telephone call. In addition,  he was 
not honest as to the reason/ purpose for the call. It was clear  that this was not the first call 
Mr M had made to the individual concerned and that that individual was feeling  harassed by 
Mr M. He repeatedly said that this is becoming  ridiculous now and ended the conversation  
by saying that he would be calling the insurer about  Mr M. That said, he did confirm that he 
hadnt done any drying in the property, but he had gone in to do something  about plaster for 
the drying company. It wasnt clear from the call exactly  what  the subcontractor had done on 
behalf of the insurer. 
Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ms belief about what  the content  of the telephone call 
means, I am not persuaded of their position  on the matter. The telephone call clearly shows 
that there  was a drying company hired  to restore Mr and Mrs Ms home, as otherwise there  
couldnt have  been a subcontractor involved.  That subcontractor has confirmed that he was 
brought in to do a specific job. That, in and of itself,  doesnt indicate that the drying  company 
didnt do its job, only that it brought in an expert to consult on something. I have seen 
nothing else that indicates SAI or its representatives have lied about the drying  process or 
fabricated evidence.  
Mr and Mrs M have  said that the claim handler at SAI told them to give the money for the 
replacement cooker  to the contracts manager and that he was happy to take the money.  I 
asked SAI for the claim handlers  recollections  of this matter   I had already seen the notes 
relating to the contractor reporting  the incident  and its actions at the time. I have been  
provided with a copy of the claim handlers email  to Mr M on 19 April 2018. In that email  she 
asks Mr M why he gave the contractor  the money.  I think its clear that she wasnt aware he 
was going to do this and so its very unlikely  that she told him or Mrs M to do so. As such, I 
wont be changing my conclusions regarding this matter.
I have considered the further comments about  the Gas Safe engineer,  but they dont  
persuade me to change my mind  on this point. The fact that the engineer  made false  
statements on the report does, unfortunately, bring  into doubt all the entire content of that 
report. I have also noted Mr and Mrs Ms comments about the cooker  what they say they 
did with it after having it removed from the kitchen  and what they speculate  SAIs contractors 
might have done with it. I cant  say for certain  what damage there was to the cooker at any 
point as I was not there to inspect it. What  I am satisfied with is that SAIs contractors 
damaged the cooker, it was repaired to safe working  order,  Mr and Mrs M had it removed 
from the kitchen and it now appears not to be in safe working order.  I have seen nothing new 
that persuades  me that the cooker,  when Mr and Mrs M were meant to move back  into their 
property, was not in working order and safe to use.
As such,  as I concluded previously, I am satisfied  that the property was habitable at the time 
SAI asked Mr and Mrs M to move back to their home in April 2018.  Indeed,  having read the 
emails linked to one that Mr and Mrs M provided  following  my provisional  decision, it 
appears that they were happy  to move home in April 2018 until they were told that they 
would not be provided with a drying certificate.  In response to the claim handlers email  of 9 
April 2018 Mr M raised concerns that the lack of drying certificate  would mean that they 
would have difficulties  selling the property.
Ref: DRN69967507Mr and Mrs M have  said that the email  the contractors put forward  to SAI as reason for it not 
wanting to continue works in the property  was a one-off and a reaction to the drying issue.  
They have said that their relations with the contractor and its staff were  always friendly. If 
that were the case I wouldnt  have  expected  the contractor to decline to do further works  and 
for clarity, I have seen  evidence that this was the case. In addition, having  listened to the 
telephone recording  of Mr M speaking to the subcontractor of the drying company, I am 
inclined to conclude that it supports the other evidence of inappropriate behaviour  on the 
part of Mr and Mrs M, as I have commented  on above.
As such,  I remain satisfied that SAIs decision to settle the remaining minor repairs  was 
reasonable. A list of those repairs was provided  to Mr and Mrs M and the proposed 
settlement, they didnt  comment on the information.  As such, SAI should move  to settlement 
of these issues.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with my conclusions regarding  the damaged slabs at the front of 
their property. They said that the damage was done  early on and the portaloo was moved  to 
hide the damage. In addition, they dont consider the condition  of the step up to the paved 
area has anything  to do with the damage to the area of hardstanding. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I do think the condition  of the step is relevant to the damage Mr and 
Mrs M have  claimed for. They have  claimed  that the hardstanding isnt level because of 
items being stored on it. However, I remain satisfied that the fact that the step isnt level 
would indicate  that the cause of the unevenness  may not be the works completed at the 
property. 
As for Mr and Mrs Ms new comments about  the slabs being broken by the second  set of 
contractors and the portaloo  being moved  to hide the damage,  I suppose  that is possible.  
However, this is the first time that version of events has been put forward and I will never be 
able to know for certain what the cause was or when the damage actually happened.  The 
evidence isnt sufficient  for me to be able to conclude  that it was SAIs contractor that broke  
the slab and so I cant ask it to pay for repairs. 
Mr and Mrs M have  provided photographs of their garden in the autumn  before the claim 
was made.  As I explained in my provisional  decision, wooden fences do deteriorate.  The 
damage to the fences  in the 2018  photographs is consistent with deterioration.  However, 
I have looked  at the 2015 photographs and while  the fences do appear  in slightly better  
condition than they were in 2018, there is clearly damage at that point too. There  is at least  
one place where there is a significant gap/hole  in the fence with light shining through. 
Overall, whilst I accept  it is possible SAIs contractors  may have contributed  to the damage  
to the fences and gate;  the evidence isnt sufficient  for me to conclude that it was 
responsible. As such, it remains that I cant require  it to replace, or pay to replace, the fences 
and gate.
Following Mr and Mrs Ms response to my provisional decision  I asked them to clarify what  
they meant when saying  that SAI had misled them about their obligations  and responsibility  
regarding the party wall works and what respect SAI had flouted  the regulations. No 
response to this enquiry was made, so I cant comment on the allegations, as its not clear 
what Mr and Mrs M believe SAI did wrong. 
In relation to the damp issues in the upper part of the house and the roof issues, 
Mr and Mrs M have  now said that they were  continually told they werent allowed to bring 
their own contractors not the property when SAIs were there.  As such,  they couldnt carry 
Ref: DRN69967508out any maintenance works. In support of this, they have provided an email from the claim 
handler dated 9 April 2018.  In that email  she did say that Mr and Mrs M couldnt bring in 
contractors until SAIs  contractors had finished what they were doing  (in just over a weeks 
time). 
The damage in question was certainly  obvious the previous summer to the April 2018 email.  
This would indicate  that it started to happen and became readily visible  prior to any repairs 
taking place downstairs.  As I said in my provisional decision, it is clear  that Mr and Mrs M 
attended the property regularly throughout, even  if they werent supposed  to. I acknowledge 
that they were  told while SAIs builders were finishing off the works they were  doing that 
Mr and Mrs M couldnt bring in their own contractors. However, this is the only time I have  
seen any evidence of them  wanting to do so. Indeed, the discussions before that appear  to 
revolve around Mr and Mrs M wanting SAI to do the necessary works on the first floor of the 
property. So I remain satisfied that Mr and Mrs M werent prevented from noticing the 
damage or from dealing  with it. 
Overall, whilst I have  considered all of Mr and Mrs Ms comments  and evidence in response 
to my provisional decision,  they havent  changed  my conclusions.
SAI questioned why I had said that the complaint  was being partially upheld  as it didnt 
consider the outcome had changed  from its position in its complaint response.  Whilst there  is 
not a considerable change in the outcome, SAI had told Mr and Mrs M that they would have 
to seek a refund of the cooker money from its contractor, appearing to be under the 
impression it was still in possession of the money. However, the contractor doesnt hold that 
money and no refund  could be obtained  from it. The refund needs to be made by SAI, which  
is a notable change  to what it said when it investigated the complaint. That change is 
required to be recorded as the complaint being  partially upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. St Andrews Insurance  plc is to refund 
to Mr and Mrs M the £1,000 relating  to the cooker.  
In addition, St Andrews  Insurance  plc should pay Mr and Mrs M the cash settlement for the 
remaining repairs, as it had previously  offered  to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN69967509copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  is about the handling of a claim  made  under  their St Andrews Insurance 
Plc (SAI)  policy. The claim was made for water damage to their home and they are unhappy with 
many aspects of the handling, most especially that SAI asked them to move back into their property 
when they considered that it was not fully repaired and was uninhabitable.
In addition, Mr and Mrs M are looking to sell the property and are unhappy about the lack of 
certificates and warranties  that will be provided to them when the repairs are complete. Most  notable  
of these are that they have  been told that to be able to sell the property they will need a drying 
certificate and guarantee for underpinning that they understand  has been put under the party  wall as 
part of the repairs done to their neighbours  property.
background
In late 2015 Mr and Mrs Ms home  suffered water ingress from their neighbours  property.  It appears 
that this was to do with some works that were done in that property regarding a water main. It was not 
until around two years after the water started to enter the property that it was thought that the problem 
next door had been resolved. During that time Mr and Mrs M were  in alternative accommodation paid 
for by SAI. SAI throughout that period monitored the moisture  levels in Mr and Mrs Ms property and 
had drying  equipment in place to minimise the damage the damp  would  cause to the property. 
Once the repairs next door were reported to have been completed, SAI went back to the property and 
completed a comprehensive  program of drying. Most of the walls  in the property  dried, but the party 
wall in the shower room  and toilet  remained damp. The drying company  had noted injection holes 
where a liquid  damp proof course (DPC) had been installed at some point in the past and concluded  
that the wall that remained damp had likely always had damp issues. As such, when it said the 
property was dry enough to allow repairs, but it said that the party  wall had only been dried to pre-
damage levels, rather than being completely dry.
SAI went  back into the property at this point and drew up a scope of works. It considered that the 
repairs would be completed within 16 weeks. There were problems with the first two contractors that 
were sent in to complete  works and they were removed from the job. The third contractor, however,  
seems to have almost completed the works by the date SAI set for Mr and Mrs M to return to the 
property. There were a few things to complete, but none  that SAI considered would  make the property 
uninhabitable. Its list was:
Cleaning up the slabs in the front and back  gardens
Carpet fitting
Hanging wallpaper
Fitting  a soffit  to an outside door
Cutting  and fitting a section of worktop next to the new boiler housing  
A repair to a first floor doorframe
Tiling behind the cooker and tightening the fixings for the splashback once tiled
Fitting  the extractor  hood  above  the cooker.
However, Mr and Mrs M didnt accept that they should be expected  to move back  into the property in 
the condition it was. Before  the move they raised  concerns about the condition  of the property, 
especially the fact that there was damp and mould  upstairs, they didnt consider  the cooker was safe 
(despite SAI confirming that it had been tested and was) and that the toilet  wasnt working. SAI 
confirmed that the cooker had been tested and was safe and that the toilet would be working  by the 
time Mr and Mrs M moved  back in.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept  this and didnt  move back into the property when SAI stopped paying  for 
the alternative accommodation. They didnt  believe that the property was inhabitable  and because  
Ref: DRN699675010they didnt think the cooker was safe to use, they took it out. That was the position  when the complaint 
came to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and partially upheld  the complaint. She didnt find 
that the property  was uninhabitable when  SAI had asked Mr and Mrs M to move back in. However, 
she did think  that SAI should arrange for the remaining  repairs to be completed,  rather than settling 
the claim in cash.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept  the investigators conclusions. They  provided an inspection  report of the 
cooker dated 7 August  2018. This document said that the cooker was not safe for use. It failed  in the 
operation section on two fronts  the flame  picture and safety device. The engineer also made the 
following comments:
This appliance has been  condemned. This oven has defective  door seals and cooker  lid F.F.D faulty. 
The body/chassis of oven  twisted. Appliance has been disconnected.
When our investigator  contacted  the company that had issued the certificate, it said that it hadnt. It 
said the engineer detailed did sometimes work for it, but he hadnt been when he attended  Mr and 
Mrs Ms home.  The investigator then telephoned  the individual engineer. He confirmed that the cooker 
had not been fitted in the kitchen or connected when he looked at it. He said that he just assessed it 
visually and he could see the oven was jammed and here was no way the cooker  could be fitted at all. 
Mr and Mrs M also provided an email from the gas safe register confirming  that it had no record of a 
new installation at their address for a gas cooker. It also stated  that registering with it gas cookers  
was not a legal requirement. However  a declaration of safety would  need to be provided. 
SAI also didnt  accept the investigators view. It said that it would be inappropriate  for it to send in any 
of its contractors because of the behaviour  of Mr and Mrs M towards those who had previously  been 
in the property. It provided a copy of an email from Mr M to the contractor shortly before it finished 
working in the property  as evidence of the inappropriate  behaviour.
As agreement  on this complaint couldnt be reached, it has been passed to me for consideration.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have provided  a brief summary of events  above, but I would 
assure Mr and Mrs M that I have read everything that both they and SAI have had to say and carefully 
considered all of the evidence. I will comment on all of the things  that I consider are key to the 
settlement of this complaint  in my findings.
Mr and Mrs M maintain  that the property was not fit to be lived in when SAI asked them  to move back  
in. Whilst this has been explained before  I think it is worth repeating it. For a property to be 
considered uninhabitable for the purposes of an insurance contract, there has to be a lack of either 
bathing/toilet facilities or cooking facilities. Mr and Mrs M have said that both were  lacking. I am not 
persuaded that this is the case.
In relation to the toilet not working, given  that Mr and Mrs M had raised concerns about this, SAIs  
contractors took a video of the toilet working when  the repairs were  completed.  I have no reason to 
doubt that this video is genuine and so I accept  that there were functional  bathing/toilet  facilities  when 
SAI expected Mr and Mrs M to move back into the property.
The cooker  is the next issue.  As I understand it, SAI agreed that the cooker  needed  to be replaced. 
As an identical model was not available,  it was willing to pay for an equivalent. Mr and Mrs M wanted 
a different cooker that would require  some alterations made to the electrical supply. SAI said that it 
was happy for them to have this cooker, but it wouldnt pay for the electrical works,  Mr and Mrs M 
would need to arrange  and pay for these works.
Ref: DRN699675011Mr and Mrs M werent happy with that response. There were further exchanges  about  the issue and 
eventually SAI decided that agreement wasnt going to be reached.  Despite knowing that Mr and Mrs 
M were  not willing to take a cash settlement for any part of their claim, it transferred the cost of an 
equivalent cooker to their old one, into their bank account. 
In the meantime, SAI had Mr and Mrs Ms old cooker inspected and it was determined safe to use. So 
as a temporary measure,  until Mr and Mrs M sorted out a new cooker, SAI had the old one reinstated  
in their kitchen.
I have read everything Mr and Mrs M have said about the cooker. I have also considered  the report 
they obtained in August  of this year. However, I have concerns about that report. Firstly, it has been 
produced on behalf of a company that had no knowledge  of Mr and Mrs M. In addition,  at least  some 
of the contents  of the report  are clearly untrue based  on the engineers  comments to our investigator.  
If the cooker wasnt connected to the gas and electricity,  the flame profile couldnt  have been 
checked, nor could the gas cut-off  safety function. The written  notes say that the engineer  
disconnected the cooker as it was unsafe, yet he has since confirmed that it was never  connected 
when he was there.  I also note that this inspection was done many months after Mr and Mrs M had 
the cooker disconnected and possibly after it had been outside for some of that period,  where it could  
have deteriorated.
I know that Mr and Mrs M wont be happy with my conclusion, but I am not persuaded the gas 
engineers report is something  that I should place any reliance on. As such, I can only find that I have 
seen nothing  that shows  the cooker wasnt safe to be installed or to use. I understand the conviction  
that Mr and Mrs M have about this issue, but I have to rely on evidence and I have seen no reports  
following examination of the actual cooker at the time it was reinstated  that shows that it was not safe.
I would also comment that reinstating a cooker where it had previously  been removed would not be 
considered a new installation.  As such,  I would not expect a declaration  to be produced  or the work to 
be registered with the gas safe register.
As such, whilst  I know  that this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, I am satisfied that their home was 
habitable at the time SAI arranged for them to return to it. In light of this, I wont be asking SAI to pay 
anything towards the additional accommodation costs Mr and Mrs M incurred by choosing to not to 
move back to their home.
In relation to the replacement  cooker, Mr and Mrs M were only entitled to the nearest  equivalent to 
their cooker  if an identical one couldnt be sourced. I dont think SAI was wrong to suggest  such  an 
equivalent. It was also reasonable when Mr and Mrs M wanted a different cooker  it was willing  to 
pay for this. However, if the cooker Mr and Mrs M chose  involved  additional works to install it, the cost 
of those works fell to Mr and Mrs M, not SAI.
Mr and Mrs M had told SAI that they wouldnt  accept any cash settlements to do with the 
reinstatement of their home. However,  SAI effectively forced a cash settlement on them  for the cost of 
the cooker. When an insurer  decides to repair  a property, it enters into what  is known as a contract to 
repair. This is a separate contract  to the insurance policy and an insurer can only be released from 
the contract if both parties agree to it or if the policyholder(s) acts in such  a way as to frustrate the 
contract. By this I mean that the policyholder  behaves in such a manner that it prevents the insurer 
from fulfilling the contract. In this case, SAI entered into a contract to repair  Mr and Mrs Ms property 
and during the course of that contract,  their cooker was damaged. SAI was responsible for that and, 
as the damage was caused  by its contractors negligence, offered to replace  the cooker. 
I have considered the circumstances  surrounding  the issue of the cooker. I think SAI acted 
reasonably in offering an equivalent cooker and giving Mr and Mrs M the choice  of selecting an 
alternative they preferred.  It was also reasonable when it wouldnt complete additional works to allow 
Mr and Mrs M to install  the cooker they had chosen. I think it did all that it could and was faced  with a 
situation where  it wasnt going to be able to move Mr and Mrs M back  into their home because of the 
Ref: DRN699675012issue with them selecting  a cooker.  That wouldnt have been reasonable and so I think  it was 
acceptable for SAI to cash settle for the cooker when it did.
Mr and Mrs M paid approximately  two thirds of the money that SAI paid them for the cooker to the 
contractors. SAI has said that the contractors recollected being told by Mr and Mrs M that SAI had 
said for them  to give the money to the contractors. Mr and Mrs M say that they paid the contractors to 
get them  a cooker because it was SAIs responsibility  to source them  a cooker. As I have said, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for SAI to have cash settled. The contractor informed SAI that Mr and Mrs 
M had given  it the money and that they had said they would leave the money in the property if the 
contractor wouldnt take it. The contractor took the money as it didnt think  it was safe leaving it in the 
property. It counted the money (taking photographs) and stored  it in its safe. That amount was then 
deducted from the last invoice the contractor submitted  to SAI, so effectively  the money was returned 
to SAI. SAI has confirmed  it will refund the money  to Mr and Mrs M.
I now turn to the issue of the remaining repairs. SAI has said that it wants  to settle these  repairs  in 
cash as its contractor has refused to go back to the property. As I explained  above, we would only 
agree that a cash settlement  was made for the remaining works if Mr and Mrs M agreed,  which they 
dont, or they had frustrated  the contract to repair. 
I have carefully read all of the notes and information of this case  and there has been mention by SAIs 
staff of inappropriate behaviour and language by both Mr and Mrs M. This has taken the form of 
threats, shouting and abusive language. The contractor has said that it doesnt want  to send its staff 
back to the property because they have been  on the receiving end of the same type of behaviour. It 
also provided  an email  from Mr M to one of its staff which  evidences such  behaviour.
An individual is entitled  to work  in a safe environment  and that doesnt just mean one where  they are 
not going  to be physically hurt, but also one where they are not subject to bullying and abuse. Whilst I 
can understand that Mr and Mrs M will have  found  the process of this claim difficult and frustrating, 
especially for the long period  where  nothing could be done, that does not justify the type of behaviour 
I am satisfied  they have  displayed toward SAI and the contractors. In the circumstances I dont think  it 
unreasonable for SAI to refuse to send in contractors to finish the works still outstanding. I consider 
that it is reasonable for a cash settlement to be made to Mr and Mrs M for the remaining  works and 
for them to arrange them themselves. 
SAI has provided  a list of the outstanding works and the amount it is proposing to settle the claim for. I 
will arrange for our investigator to send  this information to Mr and Mrs M separately.
There are additional works that Mr and Mrs M have said that SAI is responsible for. I will consider 
these individually and in turn.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that a paving slab at the front of their home was damaged when SAI placed 
a portable toilet in the front garden. SAI has confirmed that its first contractors had the port-a-loo put 
in when the repairs were  first started. However it has given us photographs  of the front garden with it 
in situ and after it was removed. I dont  think  that the damage to the slab was caused by its 
installation. I say this as the toilet sat on four feet at the corners of the structure.  None of these feet 
were standing  on the slab in question  it was underneath  the main body and was not supporting the 
weight of the structure at all. I cant say for certain whether the slab was damaged by SAIs 
contractors, but I think it unlikely  as the slab appears to have been protected throughout the repairs 
underneath the toilet. As such, I wont ask SAI to pay for its replacement.  
It has also been submitted that the same hardstanding  is now uneven because of the toilet and 
materials being  stored  on it. I dont have  a photograph of the front hardstanding  before the works 
commenced, so it is difficult for me to determine  if the front garden was completely flat before the 
repairs and now isnt, or if it was already  slightly  uneven. However, what I do note is that the step to 
the front garden  is not flat. It is unlikely that anything would have been  stored on that due to its size. 
Whilst it would have  had a lot of use with contractors in and out of the property; that would be traffic is 
was meant to withstand. So it seems that it is possible that the front hardstanding may not have been 
Ref: DRN699675013entirely level before  works started.  As such, I dont propose to ask SAI to pay for the slabs  to be 
relayed to ensure  they are level.
It has been  pointed  out that the sun room  is still suffering from water ingress.  Having  looked  at the 
investigations that took place in the early stages of this claim, I am satisfied that this isnt to do with 
the water ingress  from the neighbours  house.  It was established that there were several  problems 
with the drainage around this area and the level of the slabs immediately  outside the sun room.  This 
was explained to Mr and Mrs M some time ago and they were told what  they needed to do about  it. 
Given that this issue isnt connected to the water ingress  claim and appears to be a 
maintenance/design issue,  I dont intend to ask SAI to pay for works to remedy the problem.
I have considered the comments about the fences and the gate into the neighbouring garden.  Mr and 
Mrs M have provided a photograph of their garden, including the fences, from what they say was 
immediately before  the repairs started. We also have photographs from them of the garden and 
fences following the repairs and from the contractor when it took over the contract. SAI has also 
provided a photograph where  part of the garden can be seen through a window which  was dated 
December 2015.
The photographs show, when looking from the house down the garden, there is what appears to be a 
cordyline plant on the right-hand side of the garden. In the photograph Mr and Mrs M have provided to 
evidence the state of the fences immediately before the claim, this is a small plant with a height that is 
around half that of the fence  panel  assuming a six foot fence panel, that would make it around a 
metre tall. In the photograph from 2015 that plant is taller than the fence panel, so probably  two 
metres tall or more,  as it is in all of the other photographs from both the builders  and Mr and Mrs M. 
SAI and its contractors  have  said that the fences were not in perfect  condition when  the claim  was 
made and that the side gate was not used  by the contractors  because it meant accessing the 
neighbours garden.  SAI highlighted the height difference in the cordyline  when asked  about the 
damage to the fences   it considers that this indicates Mr and Mrs Ms before photograph  was taken  
some time before  the claim was made.
I have considered the photographic evidence and it is clear that there is a significant difference in the 
height of the plant in question. Given that I am able to see the digital information on the photograph 
from SAI, I can be satisfied  that it is from late 2015, I cant accept Mr and Mrs Ms photograph to 
evidence the state of the fences and gate at the time the claim was made. Indeed,  it would appear  
that photograph  was taken years before the claim  happened. The fence is wooden  and they do 
deteriorate over time and the type of damage Mr and Mrs M have pointed out is not inconsistent  with 
general deterioration. Based on the evidence I have,  I am unable  to conclude that it would be 
reasonable to find that SAI is responsible for the damage to the fences  and gate and should replace 
them.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that the party wall was underpinned from their neighbours side during their 
repairs. They  want a guarantee/warranty for those works as an estate agent has told them  that they 
wont be able to sell the house without it. SAI can only provide guarantees or warranties on works that 
it has had completed. As it didnt have any underpinning done,  it cant provide  the paperwork  that Mr 
and Mrs M require.  They may wish to speak to their neighbour  and his/her insurer  about this issue.
In addition, Mr and Mrs M have asked that the party wall be underpinned from their side too. I have 
read the businesses assessment of this request and I think its position is reasonable. Underpinning is 
necessary when the foundations of a wall have become  undermined and are failing to do what  they 
need to do  fully support  the wall. Where this has happened, there will be physical evidence  of the 
failure of the foundations  in the wall above  most commonly and notably,  cracking. It has said that its 
surveyor didnt notice any signs  of this type of damage and the floors were lifted  and an inspection 
completed which again  raised no concerns.  As such,  no underpinning is needed. If there is no 
evidence that there are problems with the foundations of the party wall there is no need for 
underpinning, which is expensive and disruptive. In addition,  underpinning where it is not needed can 
Ref: DRN699675014cause damage itself.  So I wont be asking SAI to consider underpinning  the party wall in Mr and Mrs 
Ms home.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Ms comments about  the drying certificate  and the wall that didnt  completely 
dry  that which SAIs  experts  considered  was likely suffering from rising damp. Firstly,  despite what 
Mr and Mrs M have  been  told by the estate agent they spoke to, it would be unusual for a consumer 
to be given the drying  certificate produced for a claim  such as theirs. So even if one were available, I 
wouldnt have expected SAI to give it to Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M have  indicated that the wall SAIs  expert thought was suffering from rising damp  is now 
dry. They have indicated that they think this is because there was still water coming into their home  
from the neighbouring property, but the source of that water has now been stopped.  I have seen 
nothing that indicates  there was a second source of water  from the neighbours  property,  but even if 
there were, I wouldnt find SAI had done  anything  wrong. It had been told that the necessary  repairs 
had been done and the water ingress stopped. It was reasonably for it to rely on this information. I 
think it would also be difficult to determine  whether there had been a change  in that wall as it has 
been tiled.
Mr and Mrs M want SAI to deal with the damp issues upstairs  in their house.  My understanding is that 
these issues have  been  caused by a problem  with the roof, which  is unrelated to the claim considered 
above. If the damage to the roof and that from the resultant water ingress  is nothing to do with the 
claim being considered, as appears to be the case, then I cannot  ask SAI to complete repairs as part 
of the claim.
An insurance policy doesnt  provide for the maintenance of a property. In the case of Mr and Mrs Ms 
it provides protection  in the event of a limited range of specific events  occurring. SAI believes the 
damage is maintenance related and I have seen nothing to show otherwise.  I note Mr and Mrs Ms 
comments that they couldnt maintain their home while SAI had control  over it and they couldnt  have 
been aware  of what was happening. I am not persuaded that this was the case. Mr and Mrs M may 
not have been living in the property for a significant  period,  but they had access to it throughout.  It is 
likely that they were asked not to attend  the property once repairs started for health and safety 
reasons, but it appears that they did attend the property  during this period.  As such  I am not 
persuaded SAI prevented  Mr and Mrs M from noticing the damage or from dealing with it. As such, I 
cant ask it to complete repairs  to rectify the damage. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am minded to uphold  this complaint in part. If my conclusions  remain 
the same,  I will require  St Andrews Insurance plc to refund to Mr and Mrs M the £1,000 they paid to 
the contractors for a new cooker.
In addition, SAI should pay Mr and Mrs M a cash settlement for the remainder  of the claim  in line with 
its offer, which  we will forward to them separately.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6996750