K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1997. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mrs C says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
To be eligible for cover Mrs C had to be working.  Her credit agreement, which  she signed a 
few months before taking the PPI, had a place to enter employment  details  but she didnt 
enter any employment details. Shes told us she was unemployed at the time. And FICL 
hasnt given me any evidence of Mrs C being in employment at the time. So I think Mrs C 
wasnt employed at the time and wasnt eligible for the cover.
On her complaint  form and questionnaire Mrs C has explained and said more  about her 
unemployment. From what Ive seen, what Mrs C has said isnt contradicted  by anything 
FICL has been able to give us from the time of the sale.  And FICL hasnt pointed  to any 
inconsistencies either. But even without Mrs Cs explanation, the points Ive already referred  
to above make me think she was likely unemployed when  she took the policy.
Ive thought about all FICLs points, including what it has said about  Mrs C not having said 
why she was unemployed and wanting  further details of her situation. But on her forms she 
has said why she was unemployed  and given more details of her situation. FICL says it 
wants more details to show  Mrs C wasnt eligible. But theres nothing  in the evidence I have 
to suggest Mrs C was eligible. And what I do have, such as Mrs Cs application form and 
Mrs C saying she wasnt employed, suggests she wasnt eligible. 
FICL says Mrs C was of employable age. But this doesnt mean  she was employed. And it 
doesnt change  my view of Mrs Cs complaint.
So from what Ive seen  Mrs C wasnt eligible for the policy. This means the policy  wasnt any 
use to her. I dont think Mrs C wouldve bought the policy  if shed realised she wasnt eligible. 
So I think Mrs C has lost out because  of what FICL  did wrong.
putting things right
I understand Mrs Cs card account is closed. FICL should  put Mrs C in the financial position 
shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
Ref: DRN67418312A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until the refund is paid. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress repaid to Mrs C by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can reclaim the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6741831