K820x#14Ms H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz), 
has accepted  that the seller was acting  as its agent at the time  so it accepted  responsibility  
for the sale. To keep things simple,  Ill only refer to Allianz in this decision,  rather than any 
other business. 
background and summary to complaint
Ms H bought the policy in 1992  at the same time as taking out a charge card. She applied for 
the charge card and PPI policy by completing  an application form in store. 
The application form shows at the time, Ms H was employed as a Bank Clerk. Shes told us 
she would  have received six months full sick pay from her employer and had some savings 
she could have relied on if she was unable to work.  Ms H also says she was entitled to 
receive a redundancy payment. Ms H has told us she was in good health at the time of the 
sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  15% of Ms Hs store  card balance in the event 
of Ms H being unable  to work due to accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
At the time,  the policy cost 64p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  The premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Ms Hs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Hs representative says:
Allianz failed to meet the sales standards  which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Allianz should have 
told Ms H about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Allianz should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms H and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN65199402The information Ms H received  was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not Allianz. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN65199403The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Ms Hs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Allianz was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Allianz gave advice, whether it advised Ms H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Allianz gave  Ms H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN65199404Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms H and 
Allianz, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms H know she had a choice?
Allianz had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
I have been provided with a copy of the application  form Ms H completed  and signed  in 1992 
when she took out the charge card and the PPI. On it theres a section about  PPI. Ms H has 
ticked this part of the application  and further written her name  as the person  to be insured 
and her date of birth underneath her tick. If she hadnt wanted the PPI, she could have left 
this section blank.  Ms H has also signed  and dated  the form. As she was taking on a new 
financial commitment, I think its likely  she would  have  read the form she was signing, and I 
think its likely that she realised she was applying for the PPI. 
I also think Ms Hs PPI would have appeared on her charge card statements, so if shed 
wanted to question the cover she could have done  so at any time. The evidence doesnt 
suggest she did this. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms H knew  the policy  was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Allianz provide  advice?
It seems  Ms H cant  recall if she was given any advice which is understandable given  so 
many years have passed. But as theres  nothing to make  me think  a tailored 
recommendation was made, I will look at this as a non-advised sale. 
This means  Allianz didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms H. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Ms H to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Allianz has provided us with Ms Hs application form  showing that PPI had been selected.  
It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve received, including  
the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance  of probabilities  applied to 
policies like Ms Hs. 
Looking at the information provided to Ms H at the time,  I dont think  Allianz gave  Ms H the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
I can see the application form described the PPI policy  as providing cover against  accident, 
sickness, unemployment or death. It also informed Ms H that the policy cost 64p per £100 of 
outstanding balance and stated the eligibility conditions. 
The information provided would have given Ms H a broad sense of what  the policy covered. 
But it was Allianzs  responsibility to draw to Ms Hs attention  the important information  i.e. 
Ref: DRN65199405the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Allianz did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Ms H, including the need to maintain premiums  during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  its unlikely Allianz adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont  think Allianz gave Ms H sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Hs representative has raised a number  
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Ms Hs. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Hs representative considers  to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Ms H has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on Allianz. 
what effect did Allianzs shortcomings have on Ms H? To what extent did Ms H suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that Allianz did not do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Ms H. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms H 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Allianz  done things  properly. 
Ms H says she would  not have taken it out and believes  that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
Ref: DRN65199406As this was a non-advised sale, Ms H had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms H chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Ms H thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms H has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Ms H ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Allianz  didnt  make clear the on-going cost information. So while  Ms H 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical defect, infirmity, diseases or 
previously diagnosed condition and any subsequent associated complaint  for which  
Ms H was treated  within the twelve months  before applying for the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms H 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Ms H pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms H from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms H didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms H would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Ms H needed  to be unable to do her normal  paid work.  I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what she would have expected in order  to make a 
claim. After all, the credit card application form says the policy provides cover for accident,  
sickness or unemployment. So it seems unlikely she would have thought  shed have been 
Ref: DRN65199407able to make  a successful  claim if she was still working, whether that be in her normal job or 
any other job.
 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Ms H would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Ms Hs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Ms H would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms H 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms H believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible that she would not have  taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude that Allianz should  pay Ms H compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Ms H thinks Allianz misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Ref: DRN65199408Allianzs statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Allianz failed  
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Allianz gave Ms H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1992 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Hs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Allianz negligently  misrepresented the contract to Ms H and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that Allianz  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms H in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2021.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6519940