K821x#15The complaint
Ms G says PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Ms G says the lending was unaffordable for her.
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Mr Lender provided to Ms G on 2 April 2013. 
The amount  borrowed  was £300.  Ms G had two earlier loans for £120 and £250 in January 
and March 2013, but we didnt consider those two loans as they were out of our jurisdiction 
because of the length of time since the lending itself and Ms G bringing her complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Gs complaint  and thought  Mr Lender shouldnt  have  
allowed any further  rollovers of the loan from the fourth rollover.  They  thought it was evident  
that Ms G was struggling to make loan repayments after the third rollover on the loan.
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicator. It said the complaint was in relation to 
irresponsible lending  so, as the adjudicator had concluded that it wasnt  unreasonable for  
Mr Lender to have agreed to the loan, then the adjudicator shouldnt have gone on to look at 
the rollovers.  
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN69913552There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms G could  sustainably repay  her loan  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ms G didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion that the first three rollovers  on the loan 
shouldnt be upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about 
this part of the borrowing. So, I wont be making  a decision about it. But this, and the two 
earlier loans  were part of the borrowing relationship Ms G had with Mr Lender. So, it is 
something I will take into account when considering this loan. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint  in part. Ill explain why.
I should first address  Mr Lenders response to the adjudicator where it said that Ms Gs 
complaint was about affordability so it was this services role to decide whether the loan 
given on 2 April 2013 should or should not have been given. It went on to say that it didnt 
believe the complaint had any connection with the number of rollovers Ms G was given and 
as the adjudicator had concluded  it wasnt wrong  of Mr Lender to have given the loan, then it 
couldnt understand why the complaint had been  partially uphold  based on the number of  
rollovers subsequent  to the lending  itself. 
Our website  makes clear  how this service looks at complaints about unaffordable  lending 
(https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/complaints-deal/consumer-
credit/payday-loans).  It outlines  what we take into account when considering  a complaint. 
This includes questions  we would ask such as whether reasonable and proportionate checks  
were carried  out, was there a point at which the lending was unsustainable  and whether the 
lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in some  other  way. So, because  of this, Im satisfied 
this service can consider  the rollovers that were  provided on the loan and we are not limited  
to whether the loan itself was affordable. 
Before agreeing to this loan Mr Lender asked Ms G for details of her income and living costs. 
From the information recorded by Mr Lender  this loan would  have seemed affordable and, in 
Ref: DRN69913553my view Mr Lender  wasnt wrong to have agreed  to the lending. I also think it was 
reasonable at such an early stage in the borrowing  relationship  for Mr Lender to have relied  
upon the information Ms G gave it about her financial circumstances.  The checks it carried  
out were proportionate.  
Mr Lender has told us Ms G chose to book  an interest only payment for the first repayment 
at the application stage.  This meant the loan was rolled over in return for a monthly payment 
of additional interest,  in this case £90 per rollover plus a fee of £7. However,  this happened 
repeatedly on a monthly basis  until October 2013 which resulted in additional interest 
charges and fee each time.  Ms G wasnt making any headway  into repaying the principal 
amount borrowed   she was only servicing  the debt.  So, I think that after the loan had been 
rolled over three times, Mr Lender ought to have realised that the repayment was potentially  
problematic for Ms G and a possible sign she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
As well as Ms Gs behaviour suggesting that she was in financial difficulty, when the loan 
was given  and the subsequent rollovers were agreed to  good  practice  was developing 
within the industry and it was generally  considered that rollovers  should  limited given the link 
between rollovers and financial difficulty.  And given  the attempts to raise  industry  standards I 
think Mr Lender  should  have identified the rollovers as a potential sign of underlying financial 
difficulty  and which I understand  from Ms G was in fact the case   and it should have 
considered whether it was positive or sympathetic to have  agreed  to further rollovers after 
the third rollover was given. 
Because of this, I think that after the third rollover Mr Lender should  have realised  that 
further lending  was unaffordable for Ms G  Ms G was only servicing the debt by making  
additional interest payments and not paying  down the debt itself  and it shouldnt have 
agreed to the rollovers from the fourth  rollover onwards. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about rollovers  four and onwards 
on the loan given on 2 April 2013.
Putting things  right  what  Mr Lender needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms G paid on rollovers four and all subsequent 
rollovers;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the rollovers four and onwards from Ms Gs 
credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Gs complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Ref: DRN69913554Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6991355