K820x#14complaint
Mr S and the late Ms A have said that Black Horse  Limited (Black  Horse) mis-sold them  life 
and critical illness insurance.  
background
Mr S and the late Ms A brought this complaint  some  time ago, but sadly Ms A has since 
passed away. Im sorry to hear of this news. In parts  of my decision Ill refer to Mr S and 
Ms A jointly and in other parts Ill just refer to Mr S. 
Mr S and Ms A took out insurance with a loan in 2009. They  paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. Ill mainly refer to the cover  as the insurance or the policy in my decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S and the late Ms A disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive noted that Mr S and the late Ms As representative have included various 
inconsistencies in their submissions. For example, initially when they complained  they 
referred to PPI insurance and not needing it as Mr S was self-employed.  
But at a later date theyve referred to Mr S having  a need for PPI. Given the time thats 
passed since this sale and everything thats  happened, its not surprising that there may be 
inconsistencies in the submissions.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S and Ms As complaint because:
I think Black Horse  made Mr S and Ms A aware  that they had a choice about buying 
the insurance, and that they chose  to take it.
I say this because,  on their loan agreement, underneath where they signed for the 
loan, theres a section  headed; OPTIONAL PAYMENT  PROTECTION PLAN . In this 
section it outlines  the level of cover  and the insured  persons. Mr S and Ms A have  
signed separately in this section to agree to take PPI.
I havent seen  evidence to support what Mr S and Ms A have said about not being 
aware of the level of cover they were  taking out or being pressured into taking PPI. 
Black  Horse recommended  the insurance to Mr S and Ms A, and it seems to have 
been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the points Mr S and his representative have made  
about why the insurance was unsuitable. But I still think that the recommendation to 
take the insurance was suitable  and the policy was right for Mr S and Ms A. I say this 
because:
oIt seems  that both were eligible  for the cover
Ref: DRN67144092oAlthough Mr S has said he another life and critical  illness  policy, this particular 
policy covered this particular borrowing. I havent seen a detailed  breakdown  
of the other policy held, but having this insurance would have still been 
beneficial in the unfortunate event of Mr S or Ms A needing  to claim on it if 
either of them  died or were diagnosed with a critical illness. 
Ive also noted  that in an email dated  10 April 2019,  Mr Ss representative told 
us in reference to the separate cover; he cancelled it shortly afterwards.
oIn an email dated 21 March 2016,  Mr S and Ms As representative also told us 
that Ms A had two children, again  suggesting that it could have provided a 
useful benefit.  
oAlthough Mr S and the late Ms A may have had property that they could sell if 
the worst  was to happen, having  this insurance  would mean that this 
particular borrowing would be paid off. Its also possible that the property 
referred to could take some time to sell and the price could fluctuate. Having 
this insurance would also mean that the property wouldnt have to be sold in 
order pay off this borrowing. 
Whilst I appreciate that its a very sensitive issue, I cant fairly place the weight  that 
Mr S may have wanted  me to on what hes said about Ms A having numerous  
medical conditions  at the time of the sale. I say this because:
oin their signed questionnaire to our Service, Mr S and Ms A have answered 
No to a question about having any medical conditions at the time of the sale;
oa copy of a demands and needs questionnaire which has been signed  and 
dated 7 January 2009 by Mr S and Ms A, records that Ms A hadnt  received  
any medical treatment for any condition  during  the previous 12 months;  and
oour adjudicator asked  Mr Ss representative  for supporting evidence  of the 
conditions that Ms A had and when they were diagnosed  but none has been 
provided. So I simply havent seen supporting evidence. 
I cant fairly say that the recommendation to take the insurance  was unsuitable or 
that Mr S and Ms A didnt  have a need for it.
The cost of the policy was shown. So I think Mr S and Ms A wouldve understood 
how much  they would need to pay for it. Ive noted whats been said about being able 
to buy a cheaper policy elsewhere. 
But Black Horse werent obliged to tell Mr S and Ms A about other policies sold by 
other businesses and, as they paid for this policy by a monthly premium, it could be 
cancelled at any time if Mr S and Ms A no longer  wanted the cover.
Its also possible Black  Horse  didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mr S and Ms A dont appear  to have been affected by any of those things. 
 Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN67144093But Black Horse will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S, if it hasnt already done  
so because:  
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S and Ms A about  that. Because  Black Horse  didnt 
tell Mr S and Ms A, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Black Horse has basically offered  to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ss comments, but these points dont  change  my decision. 
I know that this wont  be the outcome that Mr S wanted, but I wish him all of the best with his 
future. 
what the business needs  to do - if it hasnt already done  so
Black Horse  has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Black  Horse should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
Black Horse  should pay back to Mr S the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Black Horse  
should also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr S and the late Ms As complaint.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, I dont award  
any further redress. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6714409