K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that the exit charges levied by Alliance  Trust Savings Limited  (ATS)  when 
he transferred some  pension savings  to another provider were not in line with the agreed 
tariff for the product.
background
Mr C held pensions savings with ATS.  In May 2018 Mr C gave instructions to ATS for his 
pension savings to be transferred to another provider following some changes  to the 
products charging  structure. That transfer  was completed the following month.
The investments that Mr C asked to be transferred  included 12 lines of stock that were held 
in the Euroclear depository.  Since  these  are held outside of CREST, ATS considers  them  to 
be non-standard foreign  investments, and so charges a higher exit fee when they are moved  
to another provider.  Mr C considers that since these 12 lines of stock were  issued by UK 
registered companies they should  be treated as UK investments and so attract a lower exit 
fee.
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think ATS had 
been wrong to charge the higher  exit fee on the 12 lines of stock. So she didnt recommend 
that the complaint be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
ATS offered an execution  only service for Mr Cs pension investments. So it wouldnt be 
appropriate for ATS to provide Mr C with advice about how his investments should be 
structured or held. The investments that ATS held for Mr C had been transferred to ATS 
from another provider  in 2017. That transfer  was conducted in-specie. That means  that the 
investments Mr C held with the other  provider were  moved, in an unchanged  form, to ATS. 
This means  the decision  to hold some of the investments  with the Euroclear depository, 
rather than CREST was taken, either by Mr C or the previous provider,  before  the 
investments had been moved to ATS. So I dont think  it would be reasonable for ATS to 
have queried that choice,  or specifically drawn  it to Mr Cs attention.  It would have been 
reasonable for ATS to conclude this was something that Mr C was already well aware of.
Ref: DRN69734202When Mr C first moved his investments to ATS it says he would have been  given  details of 
the charges applicable to his account.  These  charges  were  revised  in early 2018 and ATS 
says that Mr C would have been sent a new copy of the charges. I can see that Mr C made a 
separate complaint to ATS about  one of the new charges that had been introduced,  and that 
was the reason he gave for moving  his investments. So I think  it reasonable to conclude  that 
Mr C received this new charging guidance  sometime in early 2018.
The exit charges that applied to Mr Cs investments did not change. But the new charges 
guide did provide a link to a website that gave  some additional information about the 
investments that ATS considered to be non-standard. That list included,  as non-standard 
investments, those that were equities held in local custody outwith Crest. And since  Mr C 
was now aware that he was subject to the additional charges being levied where portfolios 
held non-standard investment I think he might have been aware  that he had some  
investments held outside CREST.
But I dont think that is really the crux of Mr Cs complaint. The charges guide for his account  
says that the higher exit charge will be levied when transferring foreign  stocks.  But I 
havent seen anything that clearly  defines a foreign stock. So I can accept why Mr C finds 
this term to be confusing,  and I think  it entirely reasonable that he has queried whether it 
should apply to his investments.
I dont think the documentation  I have seen  is particularly useful in making a determination 
on this point. But ATS has been  clear with us that it considers foreign stocks to be those 
held in depositories outside the UK  that is those not held in CREST. And that does clearly 
apply to some of Mr Cs holdings. So on that basis I would have to conclude  that the exit 
charge ATS levied on Mr Cs investments was in line with the charging guide.
But I dont think that is the end of the matter.  ATS needed to ensure that it gave Mr C clear  
and not misleading information before he decided how to transact his account. I dont think, 
in this case, it did enough. Whilst it took great care to define what was meant by 
non-standard investments  it failed to do the same when writing about  foreign stocks.
But saying this doesnt mean  that I should uphold  Mr Cs complaint. I also need  to decide 
whether I think Mr C would have acted differently if better information had been provided to 
him. And from what  Ive seen, that doesnt  appear to be the case.
Before the transfer  was completed ATS had made Mr C aware of the exit charges that it 
would apply, and the reason for those charges. Mr C ultimately accepted those  charges  as 
he was keen to move his investments to avoid  the additional annual account fee that he now 
needed to pay. Ultimately  he was left with a rather stark choice  to either  pay the exit fee he 
was being quoted, or to continue to pay the supplementary account fee. It seems he chose 
the former. So it doesnt seem to me that a better  definition of a foreign stock in the charging 
guide would  have led to Mr C making  a different decision.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr C. It isnt appropriate for me to 
comment on how ATS decided to structure the fees it charged. I do need to consider 
whether those fees were charged  in accordance with the published schedule,  and on 
balance, I think they were. And although  I think that schedule was less clear than it might 
have been, I dont think that lack of information  caused Mr C to act differently.
Ref: DRN69734203my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Alliance Trust  Savings Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6973420