K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains the vehicle he acquired on hire purchase financed  by R. Raphael & Sons Plc 
was not of satisfactory quality. He wants it to refund the cost of repairs.
background
Mr P says he acquired the vehicle in August 2017  through a dealer Ill refer to as B. But in 
March 2018 - when  he was driving - he heard a rattling noise. He had the vehicle 
recovered by the RAC.  He says he was then told hed need  a reconditioned engine.  Hes 
since also found out the clutch  needed replacing.  He feels the vehicle was faulty when 
supplied as he states he was told by B, at the time of supply, to keep an eye on the oil and 
oil pressure. Mr P says the vehicle had only done  around 800 miles since he acquired it 
when the breakdown occurred. He says hes also found out the clutch needed replacing and 
the total repair cost is around £3,400.
Raphaels told us it had offered Mr P £250  - later increased to £350 - towards the cost of 
repairs. It had felt that was more  beneficial as the complaint arose more than six months 
after the vehicle  was supplied to Mr P. But as hed not been happy with this - an inspection  
was arranged instead. It said the vehicle  had been  inspected by S, a company which  
provided independent vehicle inspections  and reports. It said S had concluded the engine 
failure was due to a lack of oil. It felt the clutch was a wear and tear item for which it was not 
responsible.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said the expert 
had found the damage  was due to the oil level dropping. And shed seen no evidence there 
was a problem  with the oil pressure at the point of supply. She felt checking the oil was part 
of regular maintenance. And she didnt think there was enough evidence to say the clutch  
was faulty. She thought it more likely than not it had failed due to wear and tear.
Mr P didnt agree and said he thought  the point was not whether the car was in an 
acceptable condition  on purchase but what a reasonable  person might expect in the way of 
serviceable use for a reasonable  period of time.  He wanted an ombudsman to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr P experienced such serious issues with the vehicle within a relatively short time 
of acquiring it. Unfortunately things do go wrong from time to time and with older,  high 
mileage vehicles the risk is all the greater. At the time of supply  the vehicle was over 10 
years old and had covered 77,864  miles.
Under present  legislation,  as the supplier  both of the vehicle and finance agreement, 
Raphaels is responsible for the vehicle being of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
And whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account.
I note Mr Ps comment regarding the condition of the vehicle upon supply. And that he 
thought the issue was what use might  reasonably be expected  to be obtained from the 
vehicle over a reasonable period of time. 
Ref: DRN62741532Relevant legislation here is The Consumer Rights Act 2015. And this defines satisfactory 
quality as including an element of durability. So Mr P is partly correct  in his view.  An item 
needs to be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and for a period thereafter. And the 
legislation assumes  that if a fault arises within six months of supply it was present at the 
point of supply  - unless  its proved otherwise.
Where evidence is incomplete and/ or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - Im required  to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  Which means that where  facts  are in 
dispute I have  to determine what I think is the most likely explanation.
When the vehicle  broke  down  it was just over seven  months since  Mr P acquired it. But it 
had only travelled something  around 1,000 miles since he acquired it. I understand Mr P was 
unable to use the vehicle for a period due to an injury and this accounts for the low usage.  
The vehicle broke down on 29 March - and Mr P said this was outside his local garage. He 
said a brief inspection  by a mechanic there led to the RAC being called out to recover the 
vehicle. The RAC report is brief but stated there  was a metallic tapping noise internal to the 
engine. It said the oil level was ok. It recommended the vehicle not be used  to avoid further  
damage.
When S inspected the vehicle it found the vehicle was in good  overall  general  condition. It 
confirmed there were no leaks of water  or oil and the sump was not damaged. It did note the 
oil levels were correct but felt the quality of oil was questionable as it appeared dirty. It also 
noted that two litres of oil had been added on 29 March. I can only infer this latter  detail was 
information provided by Mr P.
It reported the engine fault arose  from insufficient oil which had resulted in consequential 
damage. It concluded  the vehicle was of satisfactory  quality and fit for purpose at the point  of 
sale.
It seems  to me the evidence points to a lack of oil being the cause  - or at the very least a 
major contributing factor - of the vehicle breakdown. And theres no evidence of an oil leak or 
sump damage which might account  for this. 
Whilst Ive already referred to an element of durability being  considered  as part of an overall 
assessment of satisfactory quality - this assumes an item is properly maintained. And 
maintaining oil levels is a crucial element of vehicle maintenance.  Its hard to see how a well 
maintained vehicle would require to be topped up to the extent of two litres in the absence 
of some leak or other  mechanical  fault. As theres no evidence  of this it seems the most 
probable explanation is the oil level was not regularly maintained.
The clutch  which  was replaced was reported as 80% worn. Given the age and mileage of the 
vehicle I think this is not so much  a fault as the inevitable deterioration (wear and tear) over 
the lifetime of the vehicle. And Raphaels  is not responsible for this.
In summary,  Ive not seen enough  persuasive  evidence to show the vehicle  was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. And whilst  I know  it will come as a disappointment to Mr 
P Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN62741533Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6274153