K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr J bought the policy by post in 1999  at the same  time as taking a credit  card.  He was 
employed at the time as a buyer  and had been there one year.  Hes told us he was entitled 
to less than six but at least three  months  full pay for sickness  or redundancy and didnt have 
anything else, like savings, to pay his card with if he couldnt work. Hes told us of a health 
issue that kept him off work for up to three weeks after an injury around  five years before the 
sale. He hasnt told us of having  had before  the sale any other or more recent health issues.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment, and life cover,  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim it offered 
to pay 10% of Mr Js credit card balance. The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear the 
balance on death.  Lloyds says the policy cost 77p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  
balance. The premium  had to still be paid during a successful claim and attracted interest.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show the credit card account was closed in 2006. 
Mr Js representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Js 
representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr J wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Js representative believes there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr J about 
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr J and the impact  they would  
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr J received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr J disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN62563932my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Js case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN62563933Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr J, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent he suffered loss or damage and what  
I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr J and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Js complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr J know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr J says the sale took place at a meeting and says he was pressured by the adviser and 
not given much choice  about the PPI. But Lloyds says Mr Js application  form indicates  he 
applied for the card and PPI by post. 
Looking at the application form,  I think its likely Lloyds is right,  and that Mr J applied for the 
card and PPI by post. With this in mind,  I think it unlikely Mr J was pressured into the PPI at 
a meeting or not really  given a choice in the way he recalls. Also, what  he has told us about 
not really being  given  a choice, refers to a meeting about a loan rather  than a credit card.
Also, Mr Js credit card application form had a separate Card Payment Protection section, 
with boxes for him to tick to say either  yes to the PPI if he wanted it or no to the PPI if he 
Ref: DRN62563934didnt want to protect his payments. Mr J signed the application form to apply for the card, 
and in the PPI section  the yes box was ticked  and I think Mr J wouldve known that if he 
didnt want the cover the no box shouldve been ticked  instead.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr J knew  the policy  was optional  and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it didnt  provide  advice at this sale. Mr J says the sale was at a meeting and that 
advice was given.  But what I have makes me think this was a postal sale. Also,  aside from 
Mr Js recollections,  Ive nothing else to suggest Lloyds offered or gave advice at this sale.  
With all this in mind, I think  it unlikely Lloyds provided advice at the sale. This means Lloyds 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr J. Instead, it had to give him sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take the policy,  including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Lloyds has provided  us with Mr Js application form - showing the PPI was selected. Ive also 
seen policy  terms and conditions which I accept - on a balance of probabilities  - applied to 
policies like Mr Js.
Looking at the information provided to Mr J at the time, I dont think  Lloyds gave  him the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take the policy.
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI as providing 
cover for payments in case Mr J couldnt  work due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
The information provided would have given Mr J a broad sense of what  the policy covered. 
But it was Lloyds responsibility to draw to his attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
Im not persuaded Lloyds did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr J, including the need to maintain  premiums during a claim or 
that payments  would attract  interest. In addition,  I cant see that Lloyds adequately drew  to 
his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Lloyds  gave Mr J sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Js representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN62563935PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Js. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Js representative  considers to be poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr J about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr J has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Lloyds ought to have done  either.
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr J? To what extent did Mr J suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Lloyds didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mr J. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr J suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr J would have  still 
taken the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
Mr J says he would not have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr J had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr J chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude 
he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mr J thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr J has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, I think it unlikely Mr J wouldve thought the PPI was free. Also I think 
he ought reasonably to have known the PPI would cover a portion of his card balance  - his 
payments  in case of accident, sickness or unemployment, as this was set out on his 
application form. But I accept Lloyds didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So 
while Mr J didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event  of a successful claim 
was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the information  he based 
his decision to take the policy on and found  acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr J thought he had bought and what  
he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN62563936The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  occurring in the first 12 months that 
Mr J knew or shouldve  known  about at the start or which  he had seen or arranged  to 
see a medical practitioner for in the 12 months  before  the policy start; and
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr J wasnt a 
permanent employee.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr J pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy was not as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr J from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions - or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr J 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  
Mr J couldnt claim  for work absences if related to the health issue  hed been  treated for five 
years earlier,  with which he missed  three  weeks work at that time. But having considered all 
hes told us about  that injury,  including the length of time he had off work  and the time that 
had passed since  then before the sale - and taking into account all the responses weve 
received on his behalf, on balance what I have doesnt make me think Mr J wouldve  thought  
at the sale that work absences from this issue of 30 days or more  were so likely  in future that 
cover that excluded such absences would no longer be worth  taking. 
Also, Mr J hasnt told us of having  had any other health issues  and I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the other significant exclusions  he 
was in permanent  employment, for example. So, with this and all Ive said above in mind, I 
think Mr J still had some good reasons to take the policy.
To make a disability claim Mr J needed to be totally unable to do his job and not be doing 
any other work. I dont  think this is likely  to be too different to what he wouldve expected. 
The policy was cover for the card payments in case of unemployment, sickness  or accident, 
so it seems unlikely Mr J wouldve thought hed be able to make a successful claim if he 
were still working, whether that be in his normal job or any other job.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr J wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently  close to what he thought  he was 
getting and I think  it couldve  provided a useful  benefit at a difficult  time, notwithstanding his 
employment benefits  and taking  into account  his lack of other  means. And, in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr J wouldve taken the policy in any event.  
Mr Js representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN62563937That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr J would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr J 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he wouldve been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr J believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr J in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. Thats because, while I accept its possible  he wouldnt have taken the 
policy, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken 
the policy had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about  the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Lloyds  should pay Mr J compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr J thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude  some of Lloyds 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr J, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Js representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr J and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find Lloyds had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr J in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done.
Ref: DRN62563938my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6256393