K820x#14complaint
Mrs B  representing the estate of her father,  Mr W  has complained in respect of three 
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited  with profits policies held by Mr W. Shes concerned  that 
the policy values  fell dramatically between 2015 (when Mr W was supplied  with some  
indicative surrender  values) and 2018 when he passed away. She feels Utmost  shouldve 
informed Mr W that the values were significantly reducing. 
 
background
Utmost issued a final response to Mrs Bs complaint in which  it explained that the reductions 
in the policies  values  had been due to a series of reductions made to their terminal  bonus  
rates. It highlighted that these bonus  rates werent  guaranteed.
It said these bonus  rates were reviewed more frequently as the size of the fund in which the 
policies were invested decreased in size, which was the reason  why it had carried out 
around seven reviews between 2015 and 2018.  And Utmost explained that the reductions  
resulting from these reviews were  mainly due to a change to the asset strategy that backed  
the liabilities in its Non Profit Fund,  which in turn resulted in a reduction in the profits 
attributed to the particular With Profit sub-fund  in which Mr Ws policies were  invested.
Utmost also confirmed that it didnt  write  to policyholders  when terminal  rates  were  reviewed 
and changed,  but the rates  were published on its website and could also be provided on 
request, as they had been when  Mr W had requested valuations in 2015. 
In summary,  Utmost  was satisfied that it had administered the policies and calculated the 
final values correctly, so it didnt uphold the complaint.   
Mrs B referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Utmost. He acknowledged thered been a significant  reduction in the value of 
the policies after 2015 and he provided Mrs B with some more detail about the smoothing 
process that applied to with profits investments. But he said in his view it appeared to have 
been correctly  applied by Utmost, in line with the terms of the policies. He also emphasised  
that terminal bonus rates were not guaranteed. 
Mrs B remained unhappy  as she felt Utmost shouldve made her father  aware that the bonus  
rates were  being  reduced so significantly. As no agreement could be reached, the matters 
been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I recognise that 
Mrs B will be very disappointed, I dont think the complaint should be upheld  Im satisfied 
that Utmost has acted  correctly.  
I do understand why Mrs B wouldve been unhappy to have received the values paid by 
Utmost in 2019 as compared to the indicative values provided  to her father in 2015.  The total 
value of the three policies had decreased from over £39,000 to just under £25,000. By any 
measure this is a significant decrease. 
Ref: DRN62048132But Ive not seen anything to suggest  that the reductions were  made  in error. Its important to 
remember that any indicative value  given for a with profits investment is exactly  that, an 
indication, and it isnt guaranteed. In effect, what is being provided is a snap shot  of a 
policys value based on the situation at that specific time. The smoothing process  may have 
acted to build up a significant  reserve that wouldve been reflected in the level of the terminal 
bonus at that time. But, as noted,  this can change quite quickly  as circumstances change  
such as those identified  by Utmost in its final response letter   and there  is no obligation on 
the business to notify policyholders  of such changes. 
While it may be little consolation to Mrs B, its worth remembering that Mr W contributed  a 
total of £2,580 to the paid-up policies since he took them out in the late 70s/early 80s and 
they provided him with life cover  and then paid out nearly £25,000, which  while clearly not 
as much as the 2015 figure   still represents  quite a healthy return. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 5 March 2020..
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6204813