K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Telefonica  UK Limited  failed to set up his mobile phone insurance 
policy.
background
Mr B upgraded his mobile phone in January 2018. He says at the time of upgrade he took 
out mobile phone  insurance. Mr B says the upgrade was for his daughter  and he always 
purchases mobile phone  insurance as the phone could get damaged.  Mr B says he realised 
his mobile phone was not insured when he upgraded his second  phone for his other  
daughter towards  the end of the year.  
Telefonica says it doesnt have evidence of Mr B asking for the insurance to be added  at the 
time of upgrade.  It says as its been more than 28 days since the upgrade  its unable  to add 
insurance to Mr Bs account,  so it suggested he seeks alternative cover from a third party. 
Telefonica offered  to pay Mr B £30 compensation. 
Mr B was unhappy with Telefonicas response so he brought his complaint  to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and she didnt uphold it. She thought  
Telefonica had acted fairly as there  was no evidence  of Mr B asking for the insurance to be 
added at the time of upgrade. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. He says 
Telefonica admitted  in a phone call with him that it had made  an error in not adding  the 
insurance. He says his mobile phone has since been damaged  and Telefonica should  
replace it as it made the error in not adding the insurance. So I need to reach  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment  to him but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Mr B says he upgraded his mobile phone  in store and asked for insurance to be added  as it 
was for his daughter. He says he has always taken  out insurance  so the advisor  in store  
must have  made an error by not adding the insurance to his upgrade.
Telefonica says Mr B upgraded his mobile  phone over the phone. It provided a screenshot of 
its internal system which doesnt list a store. Telefonica says it no longer has the call 
recording from the point  of sale but based  on the information it holds it says Mr B didnt 
request for insurance to be added at the time of his upgrade.  Telefonica  accepts  that Mr B 
did previously take out insurance to cover his mobile phone but it says it cant carry over the 
insurance as the correct  policy  would need  to be added to cover the new phone.
Ref: DRN66793502I appreciate Mr B believes Telefonica  should have the call recordings however, Telefonica 
has told us it doesnt hold the call recordings which Im willing  to accept  in my experience 
companies rarely retain  calls indefinitely and I wouldnt  expect  them to. In the absence  of a 
call recording  I need to decide what I think is most  likely  to have happened and based on the 
evidence I have I cant say that Mr B did ask for insurance to be added when he got in touch 
with Telefonica to upgrade his phone. Ill explain why. 
Mr B has told us that the upgrade took place in store and says the advisor didnt  add the 
insurance to his mobile phone when he requested it. Mr B also says an advisor over the 
phone told him it was a store error when he called to complain. However, based on the 
screenshot of Telefonicas internal system  I think its more likely than not the upgrade  took 
place over the phone. I say this because  theres  a note from an advisor which  shows  
Mr B phoned  to discuss his upgrade options  and a further note two days later which  shows 
he called  back to arrange the upgrade. From  the system notes  it looks  like Mr B had 
previously tried to upgrade in store but this hadnt  been possible. So those  notes dont 
suggest the upgrade took place in store. And that makes it hard for me to rely on what 
Mr B recalls  of the sale. 
I also note that when his upgrade was confirmed Mr B was sent an email detailing the order 
and insurance  wasnt  mentioned.  His February 2018 phone  bill showed he received a refund 
from his previous insurance  and his March 2018  phone bill showed he only had insurance  on 
his other  mobile  phone as only one was listed. I think that would have indicated to Mr B that 
he didnt have insurance on the new phone. And if that was something hed wanted its likely 
hed have queried why it wasnt included at an earlier stage  and he didnt.  
Mr B has offered to pay backdated premiums so his phone  can be insured. Telefonica says 
because its been  more than 28 days since Mr B upgraded his phone its unable to add 
insurance as the insurance company wont accept any claims in relation to it. I cant say 
Telefonica acted unreasonably or unfairly here because it is the insurance companys 
decision to choose  whether or not it wants to accept the risk of a phone that is older than 28 
days  and in this case Telefonica  has been informed the insurer isnt. 
Telefonica suggested Mr B sought alternative  cover  from a third party however Mr B says 
other companies werent willing  to insure  his phone due to the length of time thats passed. I 
emphasise with Mr B and acknowledge that as the phone has been damaged it is now 
difficult for him to communicate with his daughter and he still has to pay for a phone  which  is 
damaged. But I dont think Telefonica has done  anything wrong in not adding the insurance. 
However, I do accept that Mr B may have  been given some confusing  information when he 
subsequently got in touch  with Telefonica. It says its advisor didnt say a store  had made an 
error. And I cant be sure was discussed during the calls. But Ive seen an email  from an 
advisor in December 2019  which refers  to the failed action by the store. So I can see why 
Mr B thought  Telefonica accepted there had been a problem here. However, Telefonica has 
offered to pay £30 compensation and I think that does enough to address any inconvenience 
caused by this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Ref: DRN66793503Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6679350