K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained because her home insurer Lloyds  Bank  General Insurance  Limited 
abandoned any attempt to recover its claim outlay and Mrs Gs excess from a car driver  
whod caused  damage to her home.
background
In November 2017 there was a traffic incident  outside Mrs Gs home that involved a number 
of cars, one of which ended up on Mrs Gs property,  causing  damage. It was accepted that 
one of the other drivers  was at fault.  That driver was uninsured. Lloyds tried to get a report 
from the police so as to ascertain the drivers address details to allow it to pursue recovery of 
it and Mrs Gs outlay. No police report was received. Lloyds told Mrs G it was abandoning its 
attempt to recover its outlay and her loss (the policy excess). 
Mrs G wrote to the police. They told her they couldnt tell her the drivers address but that 
they had sent their report to Lloyds twice so it should be able to pass  on the relevant details. 
When Mrs G complained  to Lloyds it confirmed the policy had responded to the claim but 
that it isnt obliged to pursue recovery. Lloyds said it had never  promised it would reimburse 
Mrs Gs excess.  It said it had considered  its options  carefully here and, in its, view,  it had 
done everything that was fair and reasonable to pursue this matter,  with all that exhausted it 
didnt intend to do anything more.
Mrs G complained to this service. She said Lloyds action had lost her the benefit of her no 
claims discount and this would negatively affect  what premium she paid for years to come.  
Mrs G noted she was the victim but it was she who was out of pocket for her excess  (£350).
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  had done anything wrong. She didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mrs G said she didnt agree as the outcome didnt equate,  in her view, to any 
reasonable justice. The complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Lloyds did all it could here, and whilst I know Mrs G obtained evidence from the police 
which confirmed they had sent Lloyds  their report, Lloyds  has confirmed it hasnt received 
such. And Ive seen  nothing on Lloyds file which makes me think  it might  be mistaken in this 
respect. It is possible  for both the police and Lloyds  to be correct in this respect, and its only 
if I were to find Lloyds had failed Mrs G in some  way could  I uphold  this complaint against  it.
I know Mrs G thinks  Lloyds should seek recovery from the driver who ended  up on her 
property. But as all parties seem in agreement that it was another, uninsured driver that 
caused the crash, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable  to say Lloyds should seek  
recovery against an innocent party.  
Im not persuaded that Lloyds guaranteed it would re-coup Mrs Gs excess. I dont think  it 
misled her in this respect.  Or that anything it said regarding the recovery action caused 
Mrs G to take a different  path than she otherwise would have done.  
Ref: DRN68084702Mrs G is a victim of this accident. But she has benefitted from her insurance  policy  held with 
Lloyds. To allow  that benefit she paid her policy excess and Lloyds arranged  repair  of her 
property. With the claim unrecovered  both Mrs G and Lloyds remain out of pocket. But 
recovery is an expensive business  and without having the benefit of even an address for the 
individual concerned, I cant fairly say Lloyds was at fault for ceasing its recovery  action.
I know Mrs G thinks  Lloyds hasnt and isnt supporting her in this difficult  time. But Lloyds  
obligation to Mrs G exists  under  the terms of the insurance policy,  and, at its heart, that is for 
providing her cover  against damage  to her property. Lloyds did support Mrs G in this respect  
as it handled her claim for damage. Strictly speaking it doesnt  need to do more than that. 
With regret for any disappointment this causes Mrs G, I havent found  that Lloyds failed her 
in anyway. As such, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6808470