K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained Barclays  Bank UK PLC closed his account without notice and placed a 
fraud-related marker against his record.
background
In May 2018, Barclays carried out a review on Mr Cs account.  After getting additional 
verification from him, his use continued as before. This was until December that year when 
Barclays carried out a further review.   
On 7 January  2019 Barclays gave Mr C notice of their intention to immediately close his 
account. They believed  they could do this under  section 11 of the account  terms and 
conditions. They also placed a marker  against  Mr C on the industry fraud database, CIFAS. 
Mr C complained to Barclays. They accepted  the CIFAS marker was incorrect  and removed 
it three days after it had been lodged. Mr C had provided evidence of where funds  paid into 
his account had come from and why. Mr C remained  unhappy with what had happened.  Hed 
not been able to access his account;  pay his credit  card bill or get the money  that was his. It 
also took some time for Barclays to share his statements with him. This meant  he was 
unable to get his tax return completed in time for the deadline on 31 January 2019.  Barclays 
apologised for their service and offered him £300 in compensation.  Mr C didnt think  this was 
enough and brought  his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. She noted  Barclays review had taken longer than it 
should have. Overall she agreed Barclays  could close Mr Cs account and believed the 
compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome. Hed felt this had had a major impact on him as hed not 
known when he could  get another account.  Hed also had to delay setting up a limited 
company and ended up paying fines to HMRC for the late submission of his tax return.
Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a slightly 
different conclusion to our investigator. In the meantime  Ive been in touch with both Mr C 
and Barclays to explain why.
The facts  of this complaint  are not massively  in dispute so I dont plan to repeat all the detail. 
In any case our investigator laid this out in her view of 13 December 2019. However I have 
carefully reviewed all the evidence provided by both Barclays and Mr C in his emails.
Firstly banks are obliged  to carry out a review if they believe theres any suspicious activity 
on an account. Thats what  happened  here.  Ive seen  nothing to suggest  Barclays didnt do 
what they should have done  in undertaking this review.
The commitment in their terms and conditions is this can take up to 10 working days  to 
complete. Unfortunately  this took longer in Mr Cs case. I suspect  this is not unrelated  to the 
time of year:  the review  started on 13 December 2018 and wasnt  completed  until 4 January 
Ref: DRN647767422019. Barclays admitted  this took longer than it should and this was part of their reasoning 
for offering Mr C compensation. Mr C says the review took 50 days. I dont believe this is the 
case.
Barclays decided to close Mr Cs account  following  the review.  They  believed  they could  do 
this immediately. However Ive not really seen any reasoning   as outlined  in Barclays  terms 
and conditions under  section 11  which show they had cause to close Mr Cs account 
immediately. They wrote to Mr C on 7 January 2019 and he received this letter  on 11 
January.
But it does  seem that at the least  and Mr C confirmed this  he was using his personal 
account for business  purposes. So that fact, coupled  with Barclays being advised  of potential 
fraudulent funds being credited to his account, means Barclays  can make the decision to 
stop offering account services. However I believe they should have given Mr C two months 
notice under their terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr Cs concerns about  the impact  of the CIFAS marker. However the evidence 
shows this was only on his record for three days before Barclays removed it on 11 January 
2019. Mr C has told us he wasnt aware of this until he got confirmation from CIFAS in a 
letter dated  22 January.
I can see Barclays wrote Mr C a number of letters on 7 and 8 January and 18 February 
2019. I know he received  the first one but I cant explain how he didnt receive the latter.
Barclays offered Mr C £300 in compensation. Ive confirmed to both Mr C and Barclays  Im 
intending to increase this to £500 because of the lack of proper notice to close Mr Cs 
account. This takes into account Mr Cs concerns about the CIFAS marker being lodged  at 
all; not being able to access his account and Barclays providing statements later than hed 
wanted.
Ive noted the comments  Mr C has made in emails to us about the inconvenience this 
caused. This limited  his ability  to have his tax return completed.  Mr Cs tax return could have 
been completed at any time in the previous  nine months so I dont think its Barclays  fault 
that Mr C was planning on having  this done in January.
I know Mr C thinks  Im being  critical of his financial planning. Im really not but this is a 
choice he makes  to have his tax return completed close to the deadline. This will inevitably 
leave little room  for manoeuvre if something  goes wrong as it did in early  2019.
Barclays accepted  my suggestion that £500  was fair and reasonable compensation. Mr C 
didnt think this was enough. But having reconsidered  all the circumstances of his complaint, 
I still think its fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr C £500 in compensation for the trouble caused.
Ref: DRN64776743Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6477674