K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  Shop  Direct Finance Company  Limited, trading as Littlewoods  said she 
failed to make a payment to her account in time, so it applied interest. 
background
Miss A has had an account with Shop Direct  since 2014. In addition to her shopping account 
which requires a minimum payment every  28 days,  she occasionally  uses it for purchases on 
a Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL) basis. 
Over the course of 12 months Miss A made  three purchases on a BNPL  basis  - Item one, on 
2 June 2017 for £170.51; item 2, on 3 August 2017 for £312.25 and item 3, on 13 
September 2017 for £478.79.  The terms and conditions  of BNPL allow customers to avoid 
paying interest on a BNPL promotion  under certain  circumstances.  Customers  must choose 
to pay the full cash price  of the relevant transaction before the end of the deferred  period by 
telephone, or target a particular payment specifically to the BNPL  transaction  online.  The 
terms and conditions state the payment must clear the BNPL transaction cash  price in full by 
the due date shown on the statement.  
In October  2018 Miss A disputed the amount of interest that had been applied  to her 
account. She said Shop Direct had charged her £248.80 in interest for a BNPL purchase.  
And that Shop Direct was claiming she hadnt  made  the full payment before  the appropriate 
date. 
Shop Direct said the interest had been  applied correctly. It said Miss A failed to make the full 
payment on the third BNPL. So it said due to the full cash  price  of the BNPL order not being 
received, the interest of £248.80 was not credited to Miss As account.
Miss A said she did make  the payment so she brought her complaint to this service. The 
investigator thought  Shop  Direct hadnt  acted unfairly and had applied the interest correctly 
to the account.  She asked Shop Direct if it would consider a good will gesture but it said as it 
hadnt done anything wrong  it would not be refunding  the interest. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss A but having  done so I wont be asking Shop Direct to do anything  
further. 
Payments for Mrs As first two BNPL purchases are not in dispute. And I can see from the 
statements and Shop Directs response to this service that the interest  was credited on both 
occasions. 
Miss A has said Shop Direct  is claiming she never made the full payment before the end 
date which  she thought she had. She said once she paid it all off the item disappeared from 
her account,  with other previous  items  she had purchased since having  the catalogue. 
Miss A said that normally once nearing the deadline  for the buy now pay later she would 
receive a letter saying that it will now be added to her monthly payments. She said she didnt 
receive the letter, nor did she receive anything from Shop Direct to say they were  adding the 
Ref: DRN68774222interest. She said she called Shop Direct to resolve  it but was first told she owed  £9.99  and 
then £19.99. 
Ive looked at the statements, contact  notes and comments from Shop Direct. I note that on 
the statement, number  52, there is a message concerning the BNPL  which included 
instructions on what amount was outstanding and what needed to be done in order  to avoid 
the interest.  The outstanding amount was £149.99  to be paid by 21 September. Miss A paid 
£120 on 6 September and £10 on 8 September. A further £10 was paid on 14 September 
but this was allocated to her shopping  account  which was also due a minimum payment. So 
unfortunately there remained  an outstanding  amount of £19.99  to be paid. 
Shop direct has also used  its internal specialist software to identify if there were any other  
payments to the account and there werent.  It also said that Miss A being  advised that she 
had a shortfall of £9.99 on her BNPL cash price payment, when her actual shortfall was 
£19.99 would not alter the fact that she had a shortfall.
I realise this isnt the news  Miss A wanted but Im satisfied that Shop Direct has applied the 
interest appropriately. And while I realise  Miss A says she did pay it off I havent seen any 
evidence that a payment of £19.99 was received. Miss A said she didnt receive anything 
telling her about the interest. Im satisfied the message  on Miss As statement clearly 
explained the outstanding  balance and the actions Miss A needed  to take to avoid the 
interest being applied. So Im satisfied she ought  reasonably to have been  aware.  This was 
also her third BNPL transaction; the first two were paid on time, so I consider she was 
familiar with how the BNPL  process worked.  
The investigator asked  Shop  Direct  if it would consider a good  will gesture. It declined.  I can 
depart from the terms and conditions in certain circumstances where I feel its fair and 
reasonable to do so. But in this case I dont believe Shop Direct has done anything wrong so 
I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6877422