K821x#15complaint
Mr E says that a car he acquired with the assistance  of finance from Advantage Finance Ltd 
(Advantage) isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr E acquired a car in February  2017 with the assistance of finance from Advantage. The 
car cost £10,000 and had covered 85,000  miles at the point of sale.
Mr E explains that he had problems with the car almost  from the outset and he returned to 
the supplying  dealership  to complain. Mr E says he also asked to reject the car. Mr E says 
that although some repairs  were  carried out, they were not paid for in full by the warranty 
company and he is significantly out of pocket. He says that the problems with the car 
persisted and so eventually  he stopped paying for the car and it was repossessed  by 
Advantage.
Advantage sold the car at auction and there is an outstanding balance  remaining on the 
finance. Mr E isnt happy that he is being asked to pay the shortfall  and he says the car was 
overpriced when he bought it and has been sold at an undervalue at the auction. He says 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality and the finance agreement should  be cancelled.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint on two occasions. In his first view he thought  that it 
was likely that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale and that it had 
significant faults. He thought that Mr E should be refunded the repair  costs  and the finance 
agreement should  be cancelled with nothing further to pay and any negative  information 
removed from Mr Es credit file. In addition,  he thought that Mr E should be compensated 
£300 and refunded one months repayment  to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
The business didnt  agree and replied to say in summary that Mr E had never mentioned any 
issues with the quality of the car until after the repossession proceedings. Nevertheless, it 
offered to deduct  the value of the repairs paid for by Mr E that were not covered by the 
warranty from the outstanding balance. 
The adjudicator looked at the complaint again and concluded that this was a fair offer.  Mr E 
rejected this offer and stated that he wanted  the settlement recommended  in the 
adjudicators earlier view. The business  didnt  agree  and so the complaint was been passed 
to me to decide.
In a provisional decision dated  4 August 2020 I set out why I wasnt  minded to uphold  Mr Es 
complaint in full. I thought that the business should  pay Mr Es out of pocket expenses for 
the turbo repair and take this off his outstanding  balance. 
The business agreed with my provisional  findings, but Mr E didnt agree and sent a full 
response setting out his reasons and further evidence in support of his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67058752Ive looked at everything that Mr E has sent in and considered it again, but I havent seen 
anything that would  persuade me to change my view. Mr E has provided a statement from 
the garage owner which provides a quotation for the sort of repairs  that would be carried 
out on Mr Es car. It is not an invoice and the garage has not provided  any evidence  of 
carrying out repairs to Mr Es car in June 2017.  Mr E says that he is unable to provide bank 
statements as the account is now closed. However,  given the issues he suggests there were 
with the car and the alleged cost of repairs I would expect him to produce some evidence  in 
support of these payments. 
Mr E says that he bought another car on finance  and so this is evidence that the car was 
faulty. I cant agree that this suggests  that there were faults with the car. I understand what  
Mr E says about why he felt he had to buy another car, but I cant say it is evidence  of faults 
with the first car.
Similarly, even  taking  into consideration  the statement from the garage owner, I have no 
evidence that the faults  found in June 2017  were  connected  to the turbo  fault. I have a 
general description of how the faults might  have impacted on the driving performance but no 
specific information about what faults  were  found. I have no evidence  about what  repairs 
were actually carried out, if any. In these circumstances  I can see no reason to change  my 
provisional decision as set out below:
Extract from Provisional Decision
Mr E says that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.  Mr E wants 
effectively to reject the car pursuant to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). As the 
provider of finance, Advantage, share responsibility  for the quality of the car with the 
supplying dealership. So, if the car isnt of satisfactory quality then Mr E is able to ask 
Advantage to put matters right. 
I dont apply the law directly in the same way a court would approach  matters,  but I do take it 
into account when  deciding what is fair and reasonable.  The CRA provides 30 days  to reject 
the car if it isnt of satisfactory quality.  After 30 days the business  is allowed an opportunity to 
repair the car.
Mr E says that the faults first presented  around a month after he had taken possession of the 
car. I have looked at the emails and other  documentation around this time and I can see that 
the car went  in for a replacement  of the turbo and some part of the exhaust  system around 1 
April 2017. The cost of these repairs was £1407.30, and the warranty company made a 
contribution of £360.  
Mr E emailed the supplying dealership again  on 2 June 2017  and said that he was still 
having problems  with the car despite  paying over £2000 in repairs. It isnt clear what  other 
repairs were carried out and if Mr E has evidence  of these other repairs or evidence  that he 
paid out a further amount  he should  provide it in response to my provisional  decision.
The car was booked for a diagnostic report on 17 June 2017, I assume, so that the warranty  
company could asses what was required.  I have seen an email from Mr E to the warranty 
company explaining that faults  were  diagnosed  on 17 June 2017 with the inlet manifold and 
cylinders. Mr E was advised to tell the garage to call the warranty company so that repairs 
could be arranged. 
Ref: DRN67058753There is no evidence of the nature of the faults  that were  present on 17 June  2017  and there  
is nothing to suggest that these were the same faults that were  repaired in April.  In addition, 
there is no evidence  that these faults were not as a result of normal wear and tear for a car 
of this age and mileage. There is also no evidence that any repairs  were  carried out or the 
value of those  repairs. Mr E has provided no information from the warranty company about  
why those repairs were  not covered under the warranty. 
For me to assess whether  the car was of satisfactory  quality I would need  to assess whether 
it was likely that the car had faults that were there or developing at the point of sale. I 
currently think that it is likely that the faults with the turbo were there or developing at the 
point of sale. I think it is reasonable to expect a car to last more than a few weeks before the 
turbo needed replacing. I therefore currently think that the amount  paid by Mr E for the repair 
to the turbo should be deducted  from his outstanding balance.
I dont currently think the same about the problems with the car in June.  I dont have enough 
evidence to conclude  that it is likely that the faults  that were present in June were the same 
faults that were  repaired in April and so I cant say that the repair  has been unsuccessful, 
and Mr E should be allowed to reject  the car.
The car had travelled around 11,000 miles whilst it was in Mr Es possession  and I dont  
think he would have  been able to do that if the turbo had failed again. I appreciate that the 
garage that Mr E used  has had a burglary and so the records  of work carried  out are no 
longer available. However, Mr E has not provided  his bank statement showing any payments 
to the garage  other than the payments for the repair to the turbo. The garage  has not been 
able to confirm  what work  was carried out, even from memory, and so I cant say that it is 
likely that the faults Mr E raised in June 2017  were  there or developing at the point of sale 
such that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
Mr E stopped paying for the car and explained  to Advantage that this was because  of 
cashflow problems. He did not raise the issues with the quality of the car during the time that 
Advantage were  chasing him for repayment. Mr E has raised  a number  of legal issues about  
the finance and the car and has said it was misrepresented to him. Mr E refused voluntary 
termination of the finance  agreement but did not say that he wanted to reject  the car 
because of a satisfactory  quality issue in June 2017.
In these circumstances I cant currently say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality such 
that Mr E should be entitled to reject it. I think  it is more likely that the car had expected  
faults that were  as a result of reasonable wear and tear as Mr E was able to travel 11,000 
miles when  the car was in his possession.
Mr E decided not to keep  paying for the car because of cashflow issues and so I dont think it 
is fair that he should now be entitled to cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay or 
that his credit report should be amended.  I currently think  this would give a misleading  
picture to future lenders  about what happened here. I think that the car was properly 
repossessed because of the repayment  problems and Advantage were entitled  to sell it at 
auction. 
I currently think that the offer made by the business in response  to the adjudicators  first view 
is fair and reasonable and in line with what I would ask it to do. So, in summary I think that 
Advantage should reduce  Mr Es balance by the amount paid by him for repair of the turbo 
which I calculate to be £1047.30 (£1407 less the warranty  payment of £360).
    
Ref: DRN67058754my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and Advantage Finance Ltd should 
reduce Mr Es balance  by £1047.30. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr E to accept or reject  my decision before 14 October  2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6705875