K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD , as the insurer, should  accept  
responsibility for the complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to AXA France IARD as 
the seller in my decision.
Mrs L says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2003.
The policy cost £1.50 per £100 Mrs L owed  on her store card.  The policy  would have paid
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs L couldnt work because  she 
had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. AXA FRANCE  IARD  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint because I dont think AXA FRANCE IARD  gave  
Mrs L clear enough information about the policy. I say this because  I dont think Mrs L was 
made fully aware  of the costs and benefits of the PPI. I think this wouldve mattered to 
Mrs L because she told us she wouldve  received sick pay from work,  six months  worth  at 
full pay, followed  by six months worth at half pay.
AXA FRANCE IARD has told us it thinks it would  be unlikely that Mrs L wouldve been 
entitled to the level of sick pay shes told us about considering her length of service, but I 
havent seen enough to doubt  what Mrs Ls said. Based on the information  Mrs Ls given 
about her employer, I think it plausible that she was entitled the level of sick pay she said 
she was.
So, I think Mrs L could  have met her store  card repayments for a while  without the policy.  
Therefore I think Mrs L probably wouldnt have wanted the policy  if shed properly 
understood the cost and benefits. And I think Mrs L has lost out because  of what  AXA 
FRANCE IARD did wrong.
putting things right
AXA FRANCE IARD should put Mrs L in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI. How it does this will depend on whether Mrs Ls store  card account  is still 
active or has been closed.
If Mrs Ls account  is still active, the policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  
cancelled already and:
Ref: DRN66783672A. AXA FRANCE IARD should find out how much Mrs L would owe on her store  
card if the policy hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA FRANCE IARD should then refund the difference between  what Mrs L owes  
and what she would  have  owed.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  AXA FRANCE IARD  can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when  AXA FRANCE IARD works  out what Mrs L would have owed each 
month without PPI Mrs L paid more  than enough to clear her balance, AXA FRANCE 
IARD should also pay simple interest  on the extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on 
paying interest until the point when Mrs L wouldve owed AXA FRANCE  IARD something 
on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. AXA FRANCE IARD should tell Mrs L what its done to work out A and B.
If Mrs Ls account  has been closed:
A.AXA FRANCE IARD should find out how much Mrs L would have owed when she 
closed her store card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA FRANCE IARD should then refund the difference between  what Mrs L owed 
when she closed her account and what she would  have  owed  if she hadnt had 
PPI.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  AXA FRANCE IARD  can 
take off what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes her. 
B.AXA FRANCE IARD should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mrs L would have  owed when she closed her account from when  she closed it until 
she gets the refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  AXA FRANCE IARD works  out what Mrs L would have owed each month  
without PPI  Mrs L paid more than enough  to clear her balance, AXA FRANCE 
IARD should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on 
paying interest until the point  when Mrs L wouldve owed AXA FRANCE  IARD 
something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.AXA FRANCE IARD should tell Mrs L what its done to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already  repaid any commission amount to Mrs L that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA FRANCE IARD from the redress shown above.
Ref: DRN66783673 HM Revenue  & Customs requires AXA FRANCE IARD to take off tax from this interest. 
AXA FRANCE IARD must  give Mrs L a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
If the lender has already  repaid any commission amount to Mrs L that relates to this PPI
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA FRANCE IARD from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
AXA France  IARD should pay Mrs Ls compensation in line with the instructions set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6678367