K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) (BOS) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs F bought the policy in 2008 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs F says she was made to feel she needed  to have take the PPI.
First, I will look at whether  the policy was presented as optional. I think BOS made it clear 
that Mrs F didn't have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it. I say this because  I have  
been given a sample copy of the credit  card agreement BOS says would have  been  used at 
the time.  On page two, there is a separate section with a box that would need to be ticked to 
agree I wish to purchase Credit Card Repayment  Cover. The section  also needed to be 
signed in order  for the policy to have been taken. Its not unreasonable to assume  Mrs F 
ticked and signed  the section as a reflection of what she wanted,  otherwise the PPI wouldnt 
have been added to the account. 
Ill now look at Mrs Fs concern she felt pressured by the adviser to take the PPI and that she 
would be subject to legal  action if she couldnt make her monthly repayments. 
Its hard to know what was said during the meeting. And I appreciate  that Mrs F has tried to 
provide the best recollection she has. But I have to be persuaded it was more likely than not 
that she was pressured  into taking the policy. As BOS advised her to take out the policy,  I 
think its just as likely she was told she should  take out the policy,  rather than she had to. 
And looking at her circumstances, I dont  think that would have been unsuitable advice.  I 
havent seen enough in this case to make me decide Mrs Fs version  of events is more than 
likely what  happened.  
As mentioned above, BOS advised  Mrs F to take out the policy. And in doing  so assessed 
her circumstances and ability to meet her repayments and made a recommendation to take 
out PPI. When a business makes a recommendation to a consumer it has to make  sure it 
was right for them. And in this case I think it was.
BOS has provided me with a copy of the demands and needs statement from the point of 
sale. It clarified that a need for the PPI had been established and that it was suitable 
because we have identified you need  additional  Involuntary Unemployment, Life and 
Ref: DRN61349932Accident, Sickness  & Disability cover.  This seems right as Mrs F has told us she if she 
couldnt work she would receive  employee benefits of between  three and six months pay. 
But the policy would have paid out over and above  any employee benefits  Mrs F may have 
received, and for longer.  So those  benefits could have been used for other essential 
outgoings at what  could be a difficult time as Mrs F told us she didn't have any other 
financial means she could  have relied upon. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs F about PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But Mrs F doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover  a pre-existing medical  condition as an example. And based on what I know 
about Mrs Fs circumstances  it looks like the policy could have been  useful  to her. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think that better information would have put Mrs F off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive taken into account Mrs Fs comments, including what she said about being  put under  
pressure to take the policy,  but because of what Ive said,  this doesnt change my mind. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6134993