K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited  mis-sold  them  a monthly premium  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1999 in connection with a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs A complained to this Service. They said a company Ill call Company F added 
PPI to their joint mortgage account without their knowledge or consent.  Mr and Mrs A 
complained to Aviva Insurance  the underwriter  of the policy.  
Aviva Insurance said it was not responsible for the PPI sale because it was clear from Mr 
and Mrs As recollection that Company  F added the PPI to the mortgage account  and also 
because there was no agreement between Aviva  Insurance  and Company  F to make Aviva 
Insurance  responsible for Company  Fs actions.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be rejected because  the evidence  he had seen 
suggested the PPI was sold by Company F and not by Aviva Insurance.  Mr and Mrs A 
disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. They  
added they discovered that, at the time of the sale, Company F was owned  by Company S 
which was owned  by another insurance company   which they say is now part of Aviva 
Insurance. The other insurance company explained Company S was a separate  legal entity 
owning Company  F so the other insurance company also wasnt responsible for Company 
Fs actions either
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  where I explained why I did not think Aviva  
Insurance was responsible for this sale. This was because on the evidence I had seen, it 
seemed the PPI was sold at the same time as the mortgage by Company  F; and I had not 
seen any evidence to show  that Aviva Insurance  was responsible  for Company Fs actions 
or through  any of the various company holdings. I also said I was intending to reject the mis-
sale complaint against  Aviva Insurance. 
A copy of my provisional decision was sent to both parties and each confirmed they had 
received it. Aviva Insurance had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs A added  the following 
points:
their complaint was not against Aviva  Insurance per se;
their complaint was against whoever was responsible for selling the PPI policy;
Aviva  Insurance  should be liable for Company Fs actions  because  Company F was 
an appointed representative of Company S which they say is now part of Aviva 
Insurance through a series of company holdings.
I explained in my provisional decision  that Mr and Mrs A had brought their complaint to us 
against Aviva Insurance and so my decision would only cover if Aviva Insurance was 
responsible for the PPI sale. I also explained  there  was no evidence  I had seen  that would 
make Aviva Insurance responsible for Company Fs actions as its representative through  a 
series of company  holdings. I also pointed out in my provisional decision that our adjudicator 
had completed a thorough investigation into all the businesses mentioned  by Mr and Mrs A 
to determine liability and he told them his view of the results. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs A have raised  any new points of evidence for me to consider. So I 
see no reason to change the result of my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN61148092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account, along  with 
the law, in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether Aviva Insurance is responsible for the sale of the 
PPI policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether  the sale happened as it shouldve done. 
If I dont think  Aviva  Insurance was responsible for the sale to Mr and Mrs A, then Im not 
able to consider  a PPI mis-sale complaint  against  it. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think that Aviva Insurance sold the PPI policy  to Mr 
and Mrs A. So it follows that if Aviva Insurance did nothing wrong during the PPI sale, I will 
not uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint against  Aviva  Insurance. I know this will disappoint 
Mr and Mrs A, so I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs A about the PPI sale. They recall they 
were not provided  any information at all about PPI and did not know  it had been added to 
their account. They  say it was added to the mortgage which  they bought through Company 
F. They brought  their complaint against  Aviva Insurance  the underwriters of the policy. 
Aviva Insurance said there was no agreement between it and Company F, so it could not 
accept responsibility  for any actions  carried out by Company  F. 
So in the absence of any other evidence, it does seem that the PPI was sold at the same 
time as the mortgage. Mr and Mrs A said the mortgage was sold by Company F and there 
isnt enough evidence here to say Aviva Insurance is responsible  for the PPI mis-sale 
through Company Fs actions; and there  is also not enough evidence here to say Aviva 
Insurance added  the PPI at a later stage without Mr and Mrs As knowledge. I have not seen 
any evidence to show Company F was acting as Aviva Insurances appointed representative 
or agent  which would have allowed Company  F to sell PPI on Aviva  Insurances behalf. I 
say that because I have not seen any evidence of a liability agreement  to show Aviva  
Insurance is responsible for this sale through company holdings it has acquired over time.
Taking all the available evidence into account, I do not think Aviva Insurance is responsible  
for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint. It follows that it also was not responsible for 
carrying out the PPI sale properly.  So I am not going  to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint 
against Aviva Insurance because I dont think it did anything wrong.  
I can see our adjudicator did a very thorough investigation and reported  on all possible 
avenues of complaint  to Mr and Mrs A but  and I am sorry to disappoint them  both - this will 
be as far as this Service can take this complaint against Aviva  Insurance.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited  is not responsible for looking at this PPI 
mis-sale complaint.
My final decision is that I do not uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint against Aviva Insurance  
Limited.
Ref: DRN61148093Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6114809