K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him two payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr R bought the first policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch. He bought the second PPI policy with a loan which  also 
bought in branch, in July 2000.
The first loan was repayable over a 10-year term. The monthly loan repayment was £174.98  
with the PPI costing  an additional £17.81  making the total monthly repayment £192.79. The 
policies didnt attract interest and could be cancelled by either party  with 30 days  notice 
without penalty.  
The policies provided cover for Mr R for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Rs monthly  loan repayment  for up to 
60 months months in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months  in the event  of 
unemployment. 
The second  loan was repayable over a seven-year  term.  The monthly loan repayment was 
£216.10 with the PPI costing an additional  £22.42 making the total monthly repayment 
£238.52. The policies  didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either party with 30 
days notice without penalty.
At the time of both sales, Mr R was employed as a joiner. He has told us he was not entitled 
to any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying his loan should he have been 
unable to work. Mr R wouldnt have been entitled to any statutory redundancy pay at the 
time of the first sale because of his length of service.  Its likely that Mr R would have been 
entitled to statutory redundancy pay worth about  three weeks salary at the time of taking the 
second loan. Mr R has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sales. 
BoS has sent us evidence  to show that the first loan account closed in July 2000 and the 
second loan opened at the same time. That second  loan closed in July 2004. 
Mr Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Rs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr R wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
Ref: DRN69548962The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  BoS should have 
told Mr R about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr R and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs complaint
The first sale took place in 1997 before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The second  sale took place in 2004  before the sale of general  insurance products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs)  overarching  Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This second sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation  by the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC). It published  the GISC code, which set out minimum 
standards of good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN69548963The first credit agreement concluded in 2000  and the second in 2004. That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time of both sales, which  Im 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General 
Insurance Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of 
Insurance Companies) other than Registered  Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Rs case.  In relation  to the second sale I have also taken into 
account the GISC Code. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
In relation to the first sale - under  the transitional  provisions  which  continue  to apply to 
complaints like this about acts or omissions before 1 December  2001,  Im also required to 
take into account what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of 
the Banking Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent 
complaint. I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. Both sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity, so 
BoS was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Rs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN69548964-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mr R sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policies, including drawing 
to his attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main  
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr R and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr R know  he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policies were  optional. In the case of the second loan 
BoS has provided a copy of the actual loan agreement  Mr R signed.  It has a separate  
section for PPI which makes it clear  the PPI is optional. Theres  a cross in the box to indicate 
Mr R wanted the PPI and hes signed  the completed  form.
In the case of the first loan, neither Mr R nor BoS have been able to provide a copy  of the 
agreement. But BoS has said that it would essentially  have looked the same as in the 
second loan. The sample copy it has provided  indicates this is the case  and I have no 
reason to think that anything different happened  in the sale.  
The loans were  both secured on Mr Rs home. So the loans couldnt complete immediately  
there was a seven  day waiting  period  before the agreements would have concluded after 
Mr R signed them. So Mr R had a period of time to read the one-page agreements  carefully,  
to query  them  and to ask for the PPI to be removed if hed changed his mind  about taking 
them. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr R knew the policies were  
optional and he agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Both BoS and Mr R agree that advice was provided  during the sales.  
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr R with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policies were appropriate or suitable  given  his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policies  were  suitable 
recommendations for Mr R. It seems  Mr R cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policies. This is unsurprising in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Rs 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
Ref: DRN69548965establish whether  Mr R would have been caught  by the significant  exclusions and limitations  
which might  have meant the policies did not fully meet his needs. For example, there is 
nothing to suggest BoS considered whether Mr R had any pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policies was suitable  for Mr R given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policies was 
suitable for Mr R, I do think its more likely than not that the policies was ultimately suitable 
for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr R met the eligibility criteria  for the policies.
-Mr R had a need for the policies  he would not have received any sick pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be limited and he 
didnt have any savings he could fall back on. The policies would have  helped  Mr R 
manage the consequences  were  he unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mr R.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr R. There  
was nothing about Mr Rs employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr R sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policies to enable him to understand what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr R was given a broad description of what the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that the policies  would protect  his payments if Mr R 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and disability) and of the costs.  I have  
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr R would have taken out the policies 
without any sense of what the policies was for and the loan agreements make  clear what  the 
premiums would be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr R agreed to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies was a suitable  recommendation  for Mr R Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr R. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr R all of the information he needed  
about the policies to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ref: DRN69548966Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr R has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did BoSs  shortcomings have on Mr R? To what extent  did Mr R suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies to Mr R. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr R suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr R would have 
still taken out the policies,  had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policies it recommended was suitable for Mr R, I have found that the policies  were  ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mr R would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Mr R says he wouldnt have taken them out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policies, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in 
Ref: DRN69548967return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr R had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Rs circumstances at the time 
of the sales that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr R was given about the cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of the policies, such  as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr R would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Rs expectations about what 
the policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr R thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions which Mr R knew about or 
ought to have known about  in the 12 months before the start date of the policies and 
which recurred in the 24 months  following the start date of the policies; 
The policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr R pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policies werent as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in these  sales, might have dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr R from taking out the policies. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policies werent 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for their benefits  and they 
provided cover that, despite their limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr R didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policies out.
Ref: DRN69548968I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr R might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr R 
from taking out the policies,  Mr R, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take 
it out.
If Mr R had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar job which in the insurers view he might reasonably become qualified for, it might  
have played into his thinking  about  what he would have done.  And I accept it may have 
given him pause  for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly concerned 
given that if Mr R was unable (through  disability) to carry  on his own occupation the chances  
that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr R would still have taken out the policies. The policies were suitable for him, were 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences   including potentially the loss of his home on 
which the loans  were secured - were  Mr R made redundant, or unable  to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not Mr R would have 
taken out the policies  in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr R would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr R 
found himself in as result  of the sales was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales processes 
were immaterial, that the flaws in these cases were  highly  material and we have failed to 
give proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments  that he would not have 
taken out the policies.  I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN69548969represent fair compensation to put Mr R in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr R compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  me to 
alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr R in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 January 2021.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6954896