K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  her a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
Mrs C originally took out a joint mortgage with Santander in 2001. At the time Mrs C and her 
partner did not take out PPI.
In December 2002 Mrs C applied for a transfer of equity and the mortgage was transferred 
into her sole name. Also in December  2002 Mrs C took out a PPI policy. She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. The monthly premium  for the policy was £32.19 and it covered  Mrs C 
against not being able to work due to involuntary unemployment. In the event of a successful 
claim the policy could  have paid a monthly benefit of £745 for up to 12 months.
Mrs C told us in a questionnaire she completed that the PPI had been added to the 
mortgage without  her knowledge.  Mrs C has also said she didnt need the policy  as she had 
other resources she could rely on. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case. 
Santander hasnt  been able to show us the paperwork from the time and has limited  
information about the sale. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that 
has gone by since  the sale took place. But where there is limited  information, I will make my 
decision based on whats more likely  to have happened, taking into account  the evidence 
available, what  both  parties have told me and what we know about  these types  of sale.
Ive first looked at whether its likely Mrs C was given a fair choice about  buying the policy.
Mrs C has told us the PPI was added to the mortgage without her knowledge.
The policy insurer has showed  us a welcome letter which it says was sent to Mrs C. The 
letter informed Mrs C that two premiums would be taken by direct  debit  on 1 February 2003 
and that further  premiums  would then be taken of the first of each month thereafter. 
Santander has also sent us copies of the insurance schedule  and policy documents  it says 
would also have been sent.
The PPI policy was paid for by monthly premiums taken by direct debit from Mrs Cs bank 
account and were not added to the mortgage repayment. So the premiums would have 
appeared as a separate item on Mrs Cs bank statements. If the PPI was something she 
didnt want or had not agreed to, Id expect her to have  questioned the premiums at an early 
stage, but Ive not seen any evidence that she did. 
Ref: DRN68822832Taking everything into account  I think it is most  likely that Mrs C was told about the PPI and 
that it was optional and she agreed to take out the policy, although its understandable that 
she may not recall this after so many years.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mrs C so it had to take steps to ensure it was right for 
her. Looking at her circumstances  at the time I think it was. Ill explain why:
Mrs C was working and was eligible for the cover. And she wasnt  affected by any of the 
main exclusions  or limitations  contained in the terms and conditions. So Mrs C would have  
been able to make a successful claim if she needed  to.
With the transfer of equity  Mrs C was taking sole responsibility for making  the monthly 
repayments on the mortgage secured on her home.  Bearing in mind the potential  serious  
consequences of not being  able to make the repayments I think Mrs C had a need to protect 
her repayments.
Mrs C has told us her employer  operated  a generous redundancy scheme  and that she had 
some savings. But the PPI would have  paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mrs C 
had lost her job, meaning any redundancy pay or savings couldve been  used for other  
essential living costs.
I have no doubt  Mrs Cs family would also have wanted to assist  her if she lost her job. But 
this type of help is not guaranteed to be available when  its most needed. And in any event 
the PPI policy  would mean Mrs C didnt have to rely on family to pay her mortgage. 
So I think the policy Santander recommended was right for Mrs C. 
Santander also had to give Mrs C clear information  so she could decide whether to take the 
policy out.
I cant know what was said at the meeting in 2002. And it could be that Santander did not 
give Mrs C all the clear information it should have. But Mrs C agreed to take out the PPI so I 
think she was interested  in this type of cover. And the policy  was right for her. The monthly 
premiums seem to have been affordable  and competitive with other, similar polices, from 
around that time. So even if Santander  had given Mrs C all the clear information it should  
have, I still think it is likely  she would have gone ahead  and taken out the policy.
In summary,  I think Mrs C was given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy and she 
chose to take it out. I think the policy was right for her. And even  if she was given clearer 
information about the policy shed  still have bought it.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and make no award  against       
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ref: DRN68822833ombudsman
Ref: DRN6882283