K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) has proportionately settled her 
travel insurance claim.
background
In June 2017 Miss M bought an annual  travel insurance policy with IPA, after finding the 
policy through a price  comparison  website. On the comparison  website she was asked  a 
question about  pre-existing  medical  conditions which  she said No to, which  meant she was 
offered the IPA Coverwise Bronze policy, which she ultimately took out.
In April 2018 Miss M went on holiday and towards the end of her trip she became unwell and 
had to go to hospital. She contacted IPA so it could assist her while she was abroad  and IPA 
then asked for her medical records.
On receipt of the records, IPA determined that Miss M had incorrectly  answered the 
questions it and the comparison site had asked  around pre-existing medical conditions;  
which meant she bought a policy  it actually  wouldnt have offered her. It determined that if 
she had correctly answered the questions and still chosen to insure  with IPA she wouldve 
paid a greater  premium. So it proportionately settled her claim,  only covering 68.13% of her 
costs, as shed only paid this percentage of the premium it wouldve charged.
Miss M raised  a complaint  as she said she hadnt realised she needed to disclose minor  
illnesses shed previously  suffered,  only serious conditions which she hadnt  had. IPA 
maintained its stance as it set out shed been asked if shed been unwell with a condition 
that required prescribed medication in the past five years and Miss M had. So she brought  
her complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that he considered  Miss M should have answered Yes to the question  
IPA asked around being prescribed medication. But he believed that she wouldve been able 
to still take out this cover at the same price and just exclude cover for any previous 
conditions. So he suggested  the claim should be paid in full and compensation awarded. IPA 
said this wouldnt have  been possible and that Miss M could only have been covered by its 
policies if shed taken  out a different type of cover. So the complaint was passed  to me for a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint at the beginning of May 2020. I set out that I 
didnt intend to uphold Miss Ms complaint and so wasnt  intending to ask IPA to do anything  
more.
I explained that as IPA said Miss M misrepresented the information she gave  it, the relevant 
law for me to consider was the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This sets out the duty of a consumer to take reasonable care not to 
misrepresent when theyre  entering into a consumer  insurance contract. And explains what a 
qualifying misrepresentation is  which is the type of misrepresentation a business needs to 
show the consumer  made  to then be able to carry out certain  remedies CIDRA provides.
Ref: DRN61405752CIDRA sets out examples of things that could be taken into account to determine if a 
consumer has taken  reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation,  including whether the 
question asked by the insurer was clear  and specific. So I looked at the questions Miss M 
was asked, particularly  as IPA said they were clear and this is why it considered she failed  to 
take reasonable care  as despite this she answered incorrectly.
The first question about health  conditions  Miss M was presented  with was on the price  
comparison website. It asked her if she or anyone  else she was looking to cover had any 
pre-existing medical conditions and Miss M said No to this question. IPA considered she 
should have answered Yes  as she had suffered from a sore throat and a urinary tract 
infection in the three  years prior to taking out this cover and both required antibiotics. 
However I didnt agree  as the question  didnt elaborate on what  was meant by a pre-existing 
condition and didnt  mention medication.  I accepted Miss M was healthy when she took out 
the insurance and the above illnesses were  minor  and short-term.  So I didnt think  Miss M 
failed to take reasonable care when  she answered No to this question.
When Miss M was on IPAs website and looking to take out the cover,  she was then asked 
another more  specific question. It asked her:
"Within the last 5 years  has anyone you wish to insure on this policy suffered any 
medical condition  (medical  or psychological  disease, sickness, condition,  illness  or 
injury) that has required prescribed medication  or treatment including surgery,  tests 
or investigations?
Miss M answered  No to this question too. Considering her history,  I thought, if she was 
taking reasonable care not to misrepresent, she wouldve answered Yes  to this question. 
The policy was taken  out in June 2017  and Miss M had been prescribed antibiotics  for the 
urinary tract infection in October 2016   so fairly recently to the sale. And this question is 
looking, within a set out timescale, to establish  if medication has been  prescribed for any 
medical conditions.  IPA has explained that the policy Miss M took out was only available  to 
customers who could answer  No to this question. So if Miss M had answered Yes   as she 
should have  then she wouldnt have been offered the policy  she went on to take out. This 
meant that there  had been  a qualifying misrepresentation in this case.
There are different types of qualifying misrepresentations.  IPA said Miss M carelessly 
misrepresented and I agreed. It seemed she didnt appreciate she needed  to disclose the 
medication and illnesses  rather than she deliberately withheld these from IPA knowing 
their importance.
When theres been a qualifying  misrepresentation thats deemed careless, CIDRA sets out 
different remedies depending on the situation. As IPA said Miss M wouldnt  have  been  able 
to buy this insurance product at all, technically CIDRA enables IPA to avoid the contract 
entirely, but it should then refund Miss M her premiums. Instead, in this case, IPA offered to 
settle her claim, but only pay a proportion of it, which meant  Miss M got a larger payment 
than she wouldve for her refund.
From reviewing the information  provided by IPA and running through  its website, it didnt 
seem possible  for Miss M to have made the choice the investigator  suggested.  It seems  she 
couldve only taken out cover with IPA if shed taken out a different kind of policy.
Ref: DRN61405753Considering IPA had offered Miss M more than shed have been entitled to under  CIDRA, I 
thought the proportionate settlement it offered her was fair. Especially  as the value it paid 
her for her claim  is far higher than the premium refund she was due.
IPA responded  to my provisional decision  and agreed with the findings. Miss M disagreed 
and provided further comments.
Miss M explained that she didnt understand that the question meant even the tiniest of 
conditions. She listed  the policy information about  it not paying claims directly  or indirectly 
resulting from pre-existing  conditions and said how serious the conditions listed  were 
compared to her situation. She also said that she contacted IPA before her holiday and 
explained her current condition as theyd been  a change in her circumstances, which  it 
agreed to cover. And that the UTI shed previously been prescribed medication for was for a 
similar change  in her circumstances. She also explained she didnt have an appointment for 
the UTI as it was discovered as a result of something else,  so she didnt  recall  the 
antibiotics, particularly  as this was a very difficult time for her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Miss Ms further  points  and appreciate what shes said about  the severity  of 
a UTI compared to some  of the examples  listed on the website for her cover. However her 
claim hasnt  been  declined based on the policy terms.  It has been declined  due to IPA 
determining she carelessly  misrepresented  when  she took out the cover.  This is very 
different.
IPA hasnt said her claim is excluded by the terms  which  is why it has paid out some 
money towards it. And it hasnt said her UTI had any impact on the claim she did make or 
that it was somehow related to this claim. Its saying she didnt  fairly  present her risk to it 
when she took out cover and so didnt pay the correct amount for her cover  and in fact 
took out cover that wasnt available to her. It therefore hasnt agreed to pay the full claim, 
only the proportion  of cover she paid for. And as I set out in my provisional  decision, in this 
situation IPA would actually be entitled to give Miss M her money back  and not pay anything  
towards her claim, so it has in fact offered her more money than she is entitled to under 
CIDRA. As she should  never had been covered by this type of travel policy,  IPA isnt 
expected to pay any part of her claim.
In situations like this, CIDRA applies,  so in this case that means the focus is on whether or 
not Miss M correctly answered the question/s  when  taking out her cover. It isnt on the 
specifics of the claim she did go on to make  and the two do not need to be related. 
I appreciate Miss Ms point about  the UTI being minor and her not having  a doctors 
appointment for this, but she was prescribed medication. And the question clearly  asks if 
shes suffered any medical condition  that has required  prescribed medication. It doesnt say 
serious medical condition,  so Miss M was expected  to disclose the UTI (and sore throat).  
And if she was unsure  about whether or not she needed to answer  Yes  to that question,  
she needed to call IPA and ask. I accept this was a mistake she made, but that doesnt  
change the fact this mistake meant  she took out a policy she wouldnt have been able to. 
And so CIDRA  entitles  IPA to limit what it pays her.
Ref: DRN61405754I understand why Miss M may not have recalled  the antibiotics and do have empathy for the 
situation she is now in, considering the cost of her treatment abroad.  However, in situations  
like this, where cover is taken out online and theres no medical screening, the business 
assesses risk based on the answers to the questions it asks.  So, it is the responsibility of the 
consumer to answer correctly, even  if (for example) that means reviewing  their medical  
history before taking  out cover. As IPA asked Miss M a clear question, it wasnt  for her to 
make a judgement  call on what she then disclosed. She needed to answer in line with what  
was asked (any medical conditions where  she was prescribed medication ). Ive looked at the 
examples shes provided of minor  situations  which you could get medication  for. In this case, 
if shed had one of those conditions and was prescribed  medication, then she wouldve 
needed to answer  Yes  when taking out this cover.
I cant fairly ask IPA to cover Miss M in full for her claim, when it asked a clear  question and 
she was the one who made the mistake. Especially as she never  wouldve  had cover  under 
this policy. So while I appreciate her further  comments, my decision remains  unchanged and 
Im not asking IPA to pay her anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6140575