K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a fee-paying  
Current Account Plus packaged  account in 2010  and a fee-paying  Tech Pack in June 2013.
Mrs W says that she was led to believe she had to have the Current Account Plus because  
of her credit score. And she says that Barclays swapped her Current Account Plus to 
another account in July 2013  and it wasnt made  clear to her what her options were or that 
she could have a fee-free account.
background
Following its investigation  of the complaint, Barclays agreed  that the Current Account Plus 
had been mis-sold. So it refunded Mrs W the fees she paid for it, plus awarded 
compensatory interest.  But it did not think that the Tech  Pack had been mis-sold.
So one of our adjudicators  looked into whether the Tech Pack  had also been mis-sold, but 
he didnt think it had been. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked  
for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
As Barclays has already  put matters right regarding the sale of the Current  Account Plus, I 
will only address the sale of the Tech  Pack in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used this to help me 
decide this case.
Mrs W says that when  she was sold the Tech Pack, she was not given the option of a fee-
free account. However, Barclays has provided evidence that her account  (that was 
previously a Current Account Plus)  was downgraded to a fee-free account  on the same day 
that the account with the Tech Pack was sold to her. Therefore, I think  that Mrs W was 
aware that she could  have a fee-free account and that she couldve kept her existing 
account (as a fee-free  account) if she didnt  want to proceed with the sale of the Tech Pack.
Based on what Mrs W and Barclays  have said, Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the Tech  
Pack was sold on an advised basis.  For example,  I cant see anything  to suggest that 
Barclays reviewed Mrs Ws circumstances. And the Tech Pack  application from that Mrs W 
signed also stated  that it had been  sold without advice being given too. 
This meant Barclays didnt have  to check if it was right for Mrs W. But it did have to give her 
the important  information  about the Pack so that she could decide for herself whether to take 
it out.
The application form indicates that Mrs W was given key information  and eligibility 
information about the benefits that came with the Tech Pack during the sale.  And Mrs W has 
said that she was made  aware of the monthly  cost of the Tech  Pack. 
I understand that Mrs W registered a mobile  phone  under the Tech  Pack mobile  phone  
insurance benefit on 8 June  2013  and later made  a claim under the same benefit in 2015. 
Ref: DRN69006982Given that she registered a phone only a few days after it had been sold to her, Mrs W was 
clearly given enough information  to known what benefits came  with the Tech  Pack and how 
to use them.
I appreciate that Barclays may not have  given Mrs W all of the important information that it 
shouldve done  during  the sale of the Tech Pack. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Mrs W wouldve  been put off from agreeing  to it had she been given more  information about 
it. 
Therefore, whilst I appreciate that the she will be disappointed by my decision, Ive not seen 
enough to say that the Tech Pack was mis-sold. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to 
require Barclays to refund the Tech Pack fees to Mrs W in the circumstances.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6900698