K821x#15complaint
Mr F, represented by his son, has complained  about the replacement garage provided  by 
Ageas Insurance Limited after he made a claim under  his home  insurance  policy.
background
Mr F drove his car through the back wall of his garage. As a result  his pre-fabricated garage 
had to be demolished and replaced.
Ageas accepted the claim and arranged  for the work  to be carried out.
Mr F wasnt happy with the replacement  garage provided by Ageas. He said it was smaller 
than the one hed had previously and in a different position so that he could no longer drive  
his car into it.
Ageas said the new garage was about  10cm narrower than the original one due to it being  
made to metric measurements  whereas the original one had been made to imperial  
measurements. It said the door opening was about another  10cm  narrower  because  the new 
garage had a different door mechanism. It also said driving into the garage had been  made  
more difficult because  Mr F had opted to have his drive made narrower  by having bricks laid 
round his water gully. Lastly it said the new garage  couldnt  be built right up against  his 
neighbours  garage  as the old one had been  because  there  had to be a gap between  
the two in order  to safely  build  the structure.
Mr F brought  his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. He thought  Ageas 
should give Mr F a like for like replacement.
As Ageas didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs policy is a policy of indemnity. That means Ageas should  aim to put Mr F back  in the 
position he was in just before the damage happened.  Taken literally,  that means putting him 
back in the exact  same  position. But sometimes thats simply not possible.  
In this case Ageas has explained that it wasnt possible to position  the new garage where 
the old one had been because there  needed to be a small gap of 17cm between the new 
garage and the neighbours garage to install it safely. I think  thats a reasonable adjustment  
for it to make. 
Whats a reasonable match in terms of size depends a lot on whats important to the 
policyholder as well as whats available to the insurer. In this case I think  Ageas should have 
realised the fact that the new garage was no longer in line with the drive would mean that it 
would be more difficult for Mr F to drive  his car into it. So the size of the garage  would be 
particularly important. Ive seen a photo  of Mr Fs car in the original garage and it was 
obviously a very tight fit for him to have room to get out of the car but it was manageable.
So when size was always key to the garages  normal use, its unfortunate, that Ageas chose 
to replace it with a slightly smaller  one. I appreciate  that some people  wouldnt have difficulty  
Ref: DRN66574732with losing 20cm of width from their garage. But I can see that in this case  it made  the 
difference between  having a garage  that is useable and one that isnt. 
Ageas said it wasnt obliged to install the next size up of garage because  that would have 
meant that Mr F would end up with a larger garage  than hed had before and he wasnt  
entitled to that under  his policy.  It said the same was the case in respect of the garage door 
where it could have saved space by installing a roller door but again that would have  been  a 
better door than the original one. Thats true but in this case  I think  it would have been the 
fair solution. If Ageas couldnt get an exact match to the original garage, I think a reasonable 
match would have  been to get the next size up and if that didnt come with the same size 
door opening as the original, it should  have installed a roller door.
Ageas has said that after the damage  to his garage  Mr F had a small brick wall put around a 
gully in the driveway  leading  to the garage. It thinks thats why its difficult for him to 
manoeuvre his car into the new garage. Ive seen an old photo  of the driveway which  
appears to show that there was previously a brick  surround around the gully.  Mr F says it 
was removed so the recovery vehicle could  take away his car. I agree  that putting  it back 
has made access to the garage more limited but ultimately I dont think  this absolves Ageas 
of the responsibility  to provide Mr F with a reasonable match.
In order to treat Mr F fairly and reasonably I think Ageas  should  provide Mr F with a garage 
thats at least the same  size as his original  garage and has at least  the same size door 
opening.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide Mr F with a garage  
thats at least the same  size as his original  garage and has at least  the same size door 
opening.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6657473