K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about information Barclays Bank UK PLC reported on Mrs R and Mr S 
credit file about their mortgage payments. Mrs R and Mr S say theyve suffered detriment as 
a result of the information having  been  recorded. The information  has been removed, and 
Barclays has paid them £400 compensation. Mrs R and Mr S believe more is warranted  for 
the distress and disappointment theyve suffered from not being able to borrow  enough to 
buy their dream  home.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words, and rounding the figures  involved. No discourtesys intended by that; 
its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs R and Mr S have  taken a number of payment  holidays on their mortgage; the most 
recent  in March  2017  was wrongly  recorded on their credit files as a missed payment.  It 
came to light when Mrs R and Mr S were trying  to source a mortgage to buy a new home.  A 
broker theyd approached previously had indicated  they could borrow  around £240,000; now, 
they were being  told by a different broker that they could  only borrow  around £200,000.
When they complained  to Barclays,  it apologised,  removed the marker from their credit files 
and paid them £400 compensation. Our investigator thought that a fair response but Mrs R 
and Mr S want their complaint reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and Ill make 
some general observations before dealing with the substance  of the complaint.  Were not the 
regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont  police  their internal processes or how they 
operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial,  
and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  
our investigations  and reach our conclusions without interference  from anyone else. Ive 
considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is simpler than its been  made  to look. Its not one where  I have to decide 
fault; Barclays has admitted wrongly  placing adverse information on Mrs R and Mr S credit 
files. All I need to decide is what redress they are fairly due for that mistake. To do that, I 
need to consider the impact the mistake had on them.
Mrs R and Mr S say the impact is that the amount  they can borrow on mortgage was 
reduced. Ive looked at the information  theyve sent us to support that argument; I fear Mrs R 
and Mr S have mis-directed  themselves slightly. Both of the illustrations theyve  sent us are 
Ref: DRN62700992from mortgage brokers; not lenders. The illustrations arent promises to lend,  theyre 
calculations of how much  the brokers believe a lender  would be willing  to lend, based on 
information about Mrs R and Mr S income  and expenditure.
I emphasise the latter point because the brokers calculations didnt involve any examination  
of Mrs R and Mr S credit profiles;  these were affordability assessments not credit risk 
assessments. That much  is evidence from the full credit files Mrs R and Mr S have provided  
to us. In addition to showing their payment  records to their creditors, the credit reports  also 
record searches and enquiries  conducted  by prospective creditors. Theres  no evidence of 
either broker having logged searches or enquiries.
I appreciate Mrs R and Mr S are unhappy that Barclays made this mistake. I also understand 
their disappointment when broker number two told them theyd only be able to borrow 
£200,000 when broker number one had told them £240,000.  But for the reasons Ive 
explained, the two things  arent linked in the way Mrs R and Mr S believe. The loss theyve 
suffered isnt financial; its expectation.  In that context, Barclays  offer is generous, and more 
than I would award if no offer had been  made.
my final decision
My final decision, for the reason set out above and below, is that I dont uphold  this 
complaint or make an order or award.  Ill leave it to Mrs R and Mr S to decide  whether, on 
further reflection,  they wish to contact Barclays directly about accepting its settlement  offer.  
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6270099