K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms B was sold a PPI policy in connection  with a credit card she took out in January 1998. 
Lloyds cant confirm when  the PPI was sold but it would have been either when the card was 
taken out or in between that time and January 2000.
The policy would have cost no more than 79p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance  
and would have  paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance  if Ms B was off work  sick or 
lost her job for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Bs complaint  should  be upheld. Ms B didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint. I will now explain why.
Based on the information provided by Ms B, I havent seen anything  to indicate she wouldnt 
have been eligible for the PPI.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Ms B that the PPI was optional  and needed  her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. 
Given the length of time since the sale, its understandable that Lloyds no longer have a 
copy of Ms Bs PPI application form so I cant see how PPI was presented  during the sale. 
Equally its understandable that Ms B no longer  has a strong recollection of what happened 
during the sale.  But what this does  mean  is that I dont have sufficient evidence to be able to 
conclude that its more likely that Lloyds didnt  make it clear to Ms B that the policy  was 
optional and that Ms B didnt agree to take it out  especially given that I have seen other  
application forms from around the time of the sale where the optional nature was set out 
clearly.
Lloyds cant confirm how the policy was sold. So to be fair to Ms B they have treated this as 
an advised sale. This means that Lloyds would have had to take adequate steps to ensure  
the PPI was suitable for Ms B. They wouldnt have needed to do this if they treated it as a 
non-advised sale.  Based on the information  I have, I think  the PPI was suitable for Ms B. I 
say this because:
-Ms B has told us she wasnt entitled  to pay from her employer if she was off work 
sick. So the PPI would  have been  suitable for her because  Ms Bs payments would 
have been covered  for up to 12 months  when Ms B was without other  means to 
Ref: DRN67194022cover the repayments.  Even if Ms B is mistaken  as to who her employer was at the 
time of the sale and it transpires that she would  have  been entitled to some  sick pay, 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and would also have paid out in 
addition to any redundancy  pay Ms B may have been entitled to. 
-Ms B didnt appear  to have been  affected by the main restrictions and exclusions in 
the policy such that it wouldve been difficult for her to make  a successful claim under 
the policy. For example,  those relating  to certain  medical conditions  and working 
arrangements. 
-I havent seen  anything which suggests  the PPI was unaffordable to Ms B. 
-Ms B couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
As well as checking the PPI was suitable  for Ms B, Lloyds also had to give Ms B clear 
enough information so that she could decide for herself if the PPI was right for her. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave Ms B wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. This in itself 
doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put Ms B off taking the PPI out.
And I dont  think better information wouldve put Ms B off taking the PPI out. I say this for the 
same reasons I think the PPI was right for her.
So I dont  think Lloyds  mis-sold Ms B this PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint against  Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6719402