K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the quality of a used car she acquired through  a hire purchase  
agreement from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen
Finance (VWFS).
Mr L, Mrs Ls husband, has made most of the submissions here. For simplicity, as the 
agreement is in Mrs Ls name  and she is therefore  the eligible complainant, I refer to Mrs L 
throughout.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 10 July 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
I asked both parties to provide any more comments or evidence  before I reconsidered the 
complaint and issued a final decision.
Both VWFS and Mrs L replied saying they had nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any additional or new information for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional conclusion that as Mrs L exercised her right to 
withdraw from the agreement, our service cant  ask VWFS to do anything  with regards to the 
faults Mrs L has experienced with the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with the quality of a used car she acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  from 
Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited trading  as Volkswagen
Finance (VWFS).
Mr L, Mrs Ls husband,  has made most of the submissions here. For simplicity, as the agreement  is in 
Mrs Ls name  and she is therefore the eligible complainant, I refer to Mrs L throughout.
Background
Ref: DRN64146822Mrs L acquired a used  car under a hire purchase agreement (HP) financed by VWFS which  
commenced on 15 January  2016. The cash price was £10,350 with an advanced payment of
£3,105 and the balance  of £7,245 financed on the hire purchase agreement over a 36 month term.
On 28 January 2016, Mrs L settled the credit balance in full.
In July 2017,  Mrs L says she experienced an electrical  fault which meant the car wouldnt start. Mrs L 
says this problem recurred in May 2018 and she had the cars controller replaced. At this point Mrs L 
contacted VWFS seeking  a refund of the money spent to repair the car, saying the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
VWFS told Mrs L they didnt believe they had any liability  with respect to the problems, as shed 
exercised her right to withdraw from the hire purchase agreement in January  2016.
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with their response and brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked  into Mrs Ls complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Mrs L had exercised her 
right to withdraw from the agreement,  so the agreement should be treated as if it had never been 
entered into  and as such this service couldnt  hold VWFS liable or responsible  for the quality of the 
car in its capacity as the finance provider.
Mrs L disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. At this stage Im minded not to uphold the complaint,  and Ill explain 
why below.
my power to deal with the complaint
In this case, Mrs L says the car is of unsatisfactory quality and that VWFS is responsible for this. She 
is seeking to reject the car under the provisions  of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
VWFS is subject to our compulsory jurisdiction, which enables us to look at its obligations as a 
finance provider.
VWFS bought the car from a dealership because Mrs L asked VWFS  to finance the balance of the 
purchase price, which  it did under the hire purchase agreement. VWFS  then supplied the car to Mrs L 
in return for monthly hire payments. Under  the hire purchase agreement, VWFS would  keep 
ownership of the car until all payments were made. Therefore it could be held liable for the quality of 
the car at the point of supply.
But VWFS say Mrs L withdrew  from the hire purchase agreement  so it should be treated as if it had 
never been entered into, in line with s.66A(7) of the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA). I understand the 
point VWFS wants to make  about how this affects  our power to deal with this complaint,  but my ability 
to deal with complaints  isnt limited to the duration of a finance agreement. Our jurisdiction covers 
activities connected  to the making of a regulated credit  agreement, whether or not that agreement  is 
subsequently to be treated  as having never been entered  into.
In this case, VWFS supplied Mrs L with services connected with the making of a regulated credit 
agreement. The issue of whether she withdrew from the agreement isnt something  that determines 
my ability to deal with a complaint about the provision  of those services, and so Im satisfied  I can do 
so. It does, however,  have  an impact on the merits of this case.
what is the impact  of Mrs L exercising her right to withdraw in this case
Ref: DRN64146823One of the consequences of withdrawing  from an hire purchase agreement  is that once the consumer 
repays the credit sum, under  s.66A(7) the agreement is to be treated  as having  never been entered  
into. That then requires an arrangement to be made over what happens with the car, in order that the 
consumer isnt left out of pocket as the car is owned by the finance company. The usual arrangement, 
as happened in this case, is that title to the car passes to the consumer on repayment of the credit 
sum.
I think  that results in a change to the relationship between VWFS and Mrs L. The effect is that VWFS 
ceases to be the supplier of goods under a finance arrangement. As such, I cant  fairly conclude  that 
VWFS has a liability or obligation towards Mrs L over the quality of the car that arises from its position 
as her financial  services provider.
I understand that Mrs L feels that VWFS are still responsible under relevant  legislation  for putting  
things right if the car is of unsatisfactory quality. But that isnt a matter I can take a view on. Our 
jurisdiction to look into complaints about VWFS is as it relates to activities linked  to the provision  of 
regulated financing or credit  this link was severed when  Mrs L exercised her right to withdraw. But 
other alternative dispute resolution services may be able to look at Mrs Ls complaint for example the 
Motor Ombudsman, or she may be able to pursue her complaint through  the courts.
Mrs L also asked why the servicing and membership of VW roadside  assistance remained in force 
when the agreement was ended,  when VWFS liability for the quality doesnt. As Ive set out above,  
Im not saying that VWFS liability as a whole  is extinguished  just the ability of this service to 
consider that aspect of her complaint.
Additionally, the services  mentioned were also part of the hire purchase agreement. When Mrs L 
withdrew from the agreement and paid the full balance  she purchased the car outright. Similarly she 
purchased the servicing plan and roadside  assistance membership outright.  This is why these  
products or services would  still be available  to her to use, even though she had withdrawn from the 
hire purchase agreement. These remain to be provided by the dealership. So I am not persuaded  that 
this impacts on the issue under consideration.
did Mrs L exercise her right to withdraw  or settle the finance early?
Mrs L says that she didnt  withdraw from the hire purchase agreement. She says that in fact she just 
settled the debt early.
The hire purchase  agreement that Mrs L entered into, included a term which gave Mrs L a right of 
withdrawal, as set out on page 3 of the agreement. This gave Mrs L a right to withdraw  from the 
agreement within 14 days, starting  on the day after she entered into the agreement. The agreement 
also allowed  Mrs L to settle the agreement at any other time by making early  repayment;  although  
Mrs L would then need  to pay an option to purchase  fee for VWFS to pass  ownership of the car to 
her.
At the time Mrs L signed this agreement she also signed a pre-contractual explanations checklist 
which included boxes to tick to say shed  been provided  with particular information.  One of these 
boxes was next to an explanation  of the effect of the right to withdraw from the finance agreement 
and how and when this right may be exercised.
While I dont  know  exactly  what  was discussed, I have to take into account  that Mrs L signed  both of 
these documents.
Mrs L contacted VWFS toward the end of the 14 day withdrawal  period. Ive listened to the call Mrs L 
had with VWFS  when she called  to end the hire purchase agreement. At the start of the call Mrs L 
tells the call handler that she took out an agreement and wishes to withdraw under the right to 
withdraw. And the call handler confirms  back to her theyre going to process the right to withdraw. 
Having listened  to the call, Im persuaded that Mrs L specifically asked to end the agreement under  
the right to withdraw.
Ref: DRN64146824Mrs L says that there  was a second  call with VWFS before the call Ive set out above and she only 
asked to exercise her right to withdrawal because that is what she was told to say in the previous  call. 
VWFS have been unable to locate  any additional  calls from Mrs L from that day, but it may well be the 
case that she spoke to another advisor beforehand.
The importance of this earlier  call is that Mrs L says she didnt appreciate the implications of asking 
for the right to withdraw and VWFS didnt explain to her the possible implications during the calls, 
namely it didnt explain  how her rights around quality complaints might be impacted. From  what  I 
heard in the call I have listened to, VWFS  didnt  provide clarification around this - which I do think  
mightve been  helpful.
That said, I think the only thing that changes by exercising the right to withdraw is the options Mrs L 
would have available  to her in terms of the body through which she can pursue  her complaint  about 
the quality of the car which Ive explained above.
While Mrs L says she wouldve acted differently if her rights were fully explained, I dont think 
recourse to a different  ombudsman (which is the overall  net effect of withdrawal)  would  have been a 
deciding factor in how she ended the hire purchase agreement.
On balance, I think  it is more likely than not Mrs L would  have still withdrawn from the contact had this 
been explained to her in full. This is because I believe  her rights arent reduced and settlement would  
have involved extra cost in the form of interest and fees,  which is a disincentive to settle when she 
could withdraw without  paying these costs.  She could  of course have decided  to stay in the 
agreement, but again given the interest  that
Mrs L would have  to pay, I think it unlikely  she would have done this, as I think  the reason she 
contacted VWFS at all was to avoid paying interest.
Having considered  everything  I think Mrs L was aware  that she had 14 days  to withdraw from the 
agreement. She contacted  VWFS within the 14 days and specifically discussed  withdrawal.  And 
VWFS confirmed this to Mrs L in a letter sent following  the call, which confirms  she had withdrawn 
from the agreement. So Im satisfied that Mrs L exercised her right to withdraw from the agreement. 
As a result  of this, I dont  think this service can ask
VWFS to do anything in respect of the faults Mrs L experienced with the car.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I intend not to uphold this complaint.
I invite both parties to provide me with any further representations that they may wish to make by 
10 August 2019, after which time I will reconsider  the complaint.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6414682