K820x#14The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, in their capacity as directors of their business, are unhappy that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to help them when a client sent a payment of £3,982  to their 
account in July 2017, although the account had been closed in February 2017. Mr and Mrs B 
didnt receive the funds  and they say they werent  returned to the sending bank or their 
client.
Its worth  setting  out that Mr and Mrs B are raising their complaint against  HSBC in their 
capacity as intended recipients for the missing funds. They arent complaining  about the 
actions of the sending bank or that banks actions in attempting to trace the funds. 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat  them  again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that HSBC should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B 
didnt agree, so the case has been  passed  to me to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome  reached by the investigator.  Ill explain why.
Mr B called HSBC in July 2018 and explained the situation  and Ive listened  to that 
call. Mr B attempted to provide HSBC with a reference number, which Mr and 
Mrs Bs client obtained from her bank. The advisor explains  that as the HSBC  
account was closed at the time the payment was sent, it would never  have been 
received by HSBC.  She also explains that the reference number isnt something that 
HSBC could use  as it appeared to be an internal reference number used by the 
sending bank. She tells Mr B that he (or their client) would need to approach  the 
sending bank and obtain a full tracking report.
HSBC has provided an extract of its systems to show  a search it performed using the 
tracking number Mr Bs client had obtained  from the sending bank. This search 
retuned no results, which further persuades me that HSBC  wasnt wrong to tell Mr B 
he needed to ask the sending bank to trace the payment in question, and that it 
wouldnt be able to use the tracking reference hed obtained.
In HSBCs Final  Response  Letter to the complaint, in January 2019, HSBC told 
Mr and Mrs B that closed accounts cant receive  funds. It also explained that internal 
(or suspense) account wouldnt hold funds and directed Mr and Mrs B back  to the 
sending bank to initiate the Credit  Payment Recovery process.
The Credit Payment  Recovery process is an industry-wide scheme  covering  all 
banks that are able to send faster payments. In this case,  both the sending bank and 
HSBC were covered  by this in 2017, when the payment was made. But the process 
needs to be initiated  by  and investigated by  the sending  bank. It doesnt appear 
that Mr and Mrs B had contacted the sending  bank  at the time of referring their 
complaint to us, nor during  the time it has been with us.
Ref: DRN60504712I accept that when HSBC told Mr B hed need  to approach the sending bank to obtain 
a full tracking report, this information couldve been clearer. It gave Mr and Mrs B 
hope that HSBC could  investigate the issue, provided Mr and Mrs B had obtained the 
report first. As the sending bank wouldve needed to complete the investigation,  
rather than provide a report  for Mr and Mrs B to give to HSBC, I think  HSBC couldve 
given more accurate  information here.  But it appears Mr and Mrs B didnt approach 
the sending bank in any case,  so they didnt  unnecessarily attempt to do what HSBC 
had incorrectly told them to do.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  that HSBC has acted reasonably in explaining 
the steps that Mr and Mrs B need to take to trace  the funds  that they havent received. I 
know theyre not willing to do that, and indeed dont believe they should have to. But I have 
to consider whether HSBC has acted fairly, and in line with what  it needs to do. And I havent 
found anything  to suggest that HSBC hasnt done  that.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against HSBC Bank UK Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2020.
Sam Wade
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6050471