K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  dealt with his 
home insurance claim for water damage  to his home.
background 
In late August 2018 Mr H made a claim to Lloyds following a leak in his bathroom which had 
caused dirty water (not sewage) to flood  his kitchen. Lloyds arranged for a personal claims 
consultant (PCC) to visit. At this visit Lloyds  says that Mr H was offered alternative  
accommodation (AA) but he turned it down. He had concerns about  his dog. He had his 
daughter living with him but he confirmed she had her own flat. At a further visit a few days 
later the electrics were  isolated and the property decontaminated. Lloyds also arranged  for 
the soil pipe to be unblocked. Lloyds says it paid Mr H £250 for his food and living  expenses  
while the property  couldnt be made safe.  
Mr H was offered accommodation with his brother as he says Lloyds failed to offer him any. 
He alleges that the PCC  told him he could  share  a room with his daughter. He stayed with 
his brother until after the repair work  was completed. On the other  hand  Lloyds says that the 
property had the use of cooking,  washing and heating facilities  and there were available  
bedrooms.
When he made a formal complaint to Lloyds, it paid him £250 for inconvenience  (though  Im 
unclear whether this was the same £250 it said later it had paid for food allowance). It paid 
him a further £100 because in its initial response to the complaint it had misled  him about 
what the PCC had said.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said Lloyds should have taken more account of 
Mr Hs personal  circumstances and helped him with AA. He proposed that it pay him a 
further £750 compensation, on top of that already paid.
Mr H wasnt happy with this and felt it didnt reflect the distress hed suffered, particularly as 
his brother and sister  in law were  both suffering from ill health themselves.
Lloyds said it had paid Mr H sufficient  money  to account for the property being initially  
without electrics, though  emphasised that it was Mr Hs choice to remain  in his home,  and 
then to move  in with his brother. The home  was habitable albeit inconvenient.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think  Lloyds needed  to pay any more 
compensation but that having  agreed to pay £250 food costs, it should  pay that. I further said 
that if Mr H could show that he or his daughter had additional costs while staying with his 
brother Lloyds should pay a disturbance allowance. 
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said the property had no water or electricity  
and he clearly couldnt live there.  Hes sent us photos to show the state of the property. He 
says he wasnt offered alternative  accommodation,  which he was entitled to under the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63370262The following  were my provisional findings:
My review of this case has been hampered by the fact that the notes of the claim, 
particularly what was said,  to Mr H are unclear. Also Lloyds has given us different 
information from its responses to Mr H about  the compensation  it has paid.
I think its clear  that the home was uninhabitable at least at first, until the electrics  were 
isolated and the property  decontaminated.  Lloyds  had said it offered Mr H AA but he denies 
this. Mr H is unquestionably  a vulnerable person. He is elderly and disabled and his wife had 
recently passed away. Whist the situation  is unclear I think it has to be accepted that at the 
time of the claim Mr Hs daughter (who had health issues  of her own)  was living  with him, so 
AA should have been considered for both of them.
I dont believe AA was discussed after the initial  visit. It seems to have been  assumed by the 
PCC that Mr H wouldve been able to return to his home but that he had chosen to move in 
with his brother.  There are no clear notes  explaining the position  the PCCs view that the 
property was habitable appears  to have been relayed to Mr H when he made his complaint.
Mr Hs policy  covers the provision of AA. Normally this would be when the property is 
uninhabitable and that would usually be where  there is a lack of washing or cooking  facilities. 
But we expect insurers to be flexible particularly in the case of a vulnerable person like Mr H. 
Lloyds was aware he was living with his brother but didnt make clear to him that it wouldnt 
be compensating him for that. I take the view that, with dehumidifiers  going and the home  
being stripped  out it was unsafe  for Mr H and his daughter  to be living there.  The repairs 
were completed around 22 November   I think Mr H shouldve been offered AA up until then. 
If he turned  it down then I would expect a clear note and confirmation to that effect.
That said,  I cant see that Mr H made a complaint about his situation until after the claim had 
concluded, so Lloyds wasnt to know if he was in difficulty living with his brother.  I have to 
consider the position as it was rather than what might have been. So although Lloyds  might  
have been expected to pay for AA I cant award  Mr H the notional cost of such AA. So, as far 
as I can see Mr H had the use of his brothers cooking and washing facilities. If he or his 
daughter had costs  over and above  what they would have had if theyd been living in Mr Hs 
home, I might consider whether Lloyds should  have  paid a daily disturbance allowance. This 
payment would come under the costs of AA in the policy. I will provisionally make an award  
in respect of that but in order for that to be a final award Mr H would need to show  me 
evidence that he had higher living expenses with his brother.
I do note though that Mr H has said he paid a weekly  sum to someone to look after his dog. 
If he can show me evidence of that in response to this provisional decision, I would be 
prepared to consider  it.
So I have  to consider what  compensation should  be paid. In Lloyds first final response letter  
it said that £250 was for inconvenience.  It later said to us that that sum was for the cost of 
food etc before the home could be made  safe.  Ive taken it that Lloyds  has only so far paid 
£350 compensation. But I think  its right that it should also pay a further £250 in respect of 
food costs whilst he home  was unsafe, unless it can show us that it has paid that already (in 
addition to the £350).
However, I dont think an award  of further  compensation is appropriate in this case. I think  
that £350 for distress and inconvenience  was appropriate and in line with awards we have 
Ref: DRN63370263made in similar cases. Further, unless Mr H gives me information  about his living expenses 
and the cost he paid for having his dog looked  after, Ill be unlikely to make it pay any more 
in respect of making  it cover his out of pocket costs. 
In respect of Mr Hs photos  I dont  doubt  that the property was uninhabitable when the claim 
was first reported. But I do think that at first he was offered alternative accommodation but 
he turned  it down, preferring to stay where he could keep an eye on things, and he had an 
elderly dog. But as the offer was only verbal  I dont think his options were  made  clear  to him.
The evidence shows that the property was decontaminated and electrics and water put back 
on. But, as Ive said in my provisional findings I think Lloyds should have offered Mr H 
alternative accommodation for the duration of the repairs. So in Mr Hs position  I think  the 
property continued  to be uninhabitable even if it had some basic facilities.  But, as I also said,  
Mr H moved in with his brother and didnt advise Lloyds that he was unhappy  with that. I 
think Lloyds should  have considered a disturbance allowance.  However  Mr H hasnt been 
able to show that he or his daughter incurred extra living expenses  (on top of what  they 
would normally have  had to pay) whilst staying with his brother. So I cant make an award in 
respect of that.
Mr H hasnt been able to show us evidence of what he paid to have his dog looked after. But 
he told Lloyds that this was £20 a week. Ill take him at his word and make an award in 
respect of this. The repairs took 13 weeks  so Lloyds should pay the £20 for those 13 weeks,  
totalling £260.
In all other respects I maintain my provisional findings. Those findings are now final and form 
apt of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay to Mr H a 
further £510 compensation, made up as to £250 for food expenses  and £260 for the cost of 
having his dog looked after.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2021.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6337026