K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a single premium payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy taken out by Miss W in 2005  in connection with a loan arranged  by Gordon Lamb 
Holdings Limited  now part of Vertu  Motors  Plc. Miss W complains the policy  was mis-sold 
to her. 
background
Miss W says she was told by two intimidating salesmen that she had to have PPI because 
she never knew what serious illnesses may happen to her in the future. Miss Ws witness  
her sister, who was there  at the time  advised her not to take the PPI. But Miss W felt 
pressured and felt she had no choice but to take it. She concluded the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  not be upheld. She said there wasnt enough  
evidence of a pressured sale so Gordon Lamb Holdings probably made it clear enough to 
Miss W on the documents that the policy was optional. She also said Miss W had been given 
enough clear information  to make  a decision about it. Miss W didnt agree with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint.  I know  this will disappoint her so Ill explain 
why. 
I first looked  at whether Gordon Lamb  Holdings made Miss W aware the policy  was optional. 
She specifically complains two salesmen used a high pressure sales technique to make her 
buy the PPI. Miss Ws witness correctly says it is difficult to prove Miss W was pressured 
during a sale which happened over 13 years ago. So we look at what  is most likely  to have 
happened based on the documentary evidence produced by each party. 
The sale was conducted at a branch meeting. I dont know what exactly  was said to her 
during the whole sale process. But I could see Miss W signed  the loan application form in 
the box headed Payment  Protector  to say I wish to purchase  the following type of 
Payment Protection  And she signed  a separate box to show she wanted to enter  into the 
credit agreement.
I appreciate Miss W says she felt pressured  at the time, but the documentary  evidence of the 
loan application  shows that she could have  refused  to sign the separate box for the PPI and 
only sign for the loan  even if the loan figure  had to be recalculated. So because  Miss W 
had that choice, I think the policy  was shown to be an optional product. 
Miss W and Gordon Lamb  Holdings agree that it recommended the PPI to her so it had to 
check the PPI was right for her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example she was eligible to buy the policy,  she wasnt  affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for 
the cover. I say she had a need  for the cover even though  she was entitled  to varied levels  
Ref: DRN64848112of sick pay from her employer. I think the PPI cover would have given  her some income in 
addition to her sick pay to make the loan repayments. So I dont think  her sick pay made the 
PPI any less suitable for her.
I then looked at the PPI information that Gordon Lamb Holdings gave Miss W to see if she 
could have made an informed decision. I dont know how, or if, the things not covered by the 
policy were explained  to Miss W. But I dont think she would have been affected by them.  So 
even if she had been given detailed information about them, I dont think it would have 
changed her decision  about buying  the policy. 
I have seen that the loan agreement set out the cost of the loan and the cost of the PPI 
policy, together with the total monthly  cost Miss W had to pay. So the costs of this PPI were 
set out quite clearly.  I dont know what was said to her during the meeting, but the loan 
agreement was signed by Miss W. So I think she probably saw the total cost of the policy  at 
the time of the sale. And I dont think that any more  detailed  information about the cost and 
benefit would have changed her mind about buying the policy.
In summary,  I think Miss W was probably aware the policy was optional.  I also think  that she 
most likely would have  bought the policy even if she had been  given  more  detailed 
information about it. This means that I dont uphold her complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2019.
Amrit Mangra 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6484811