K820x#14Complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mr B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1997. Mr B paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered him in case  he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr B, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the account involved has long since closed, so 
I think its understandable that neither side have the original documents from the time.  
Indeed, under data protection rules Halifax were  required to dispose of Mr Bs data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have misled  Mr B into having PPI. But 
I have no evidence which shows thats  what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider  
problems with Halifaxs sales  process from the time. And this sale was too long ago for me 
to reasonably expect  Halifax  to be able to produce  evidence to defend  itself now.  So I dont  
think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr B. I think  its more  likely 
that it followed a relatively  standard sales process  and gave him a choice about buying PPI, 
and that he chose to take it  though I can certainly  understand if he no longer remembers 
doing so after so many  years. 
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr B, or not. The requirements were  
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr B, Ive assumed it did. That 
means Halifax had to check the policy  was right for him. And based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr B was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN62728672Mr B may have had some benefits  through work, though understandably he couldnt 
remember how much  these were.  The PPI wouldve paid out on top of those benefits, and 
typically wouldve offered  him significantly more comprehensive cover. I also understand he 
may have  had some savings, though  these  wouldve  only lasted so long if needed to cover 
Mr Bs income. And the PPI meant Mr B could  effectively  protect  his savings and use them  
for other things. Its worth bearing  in mind that the mortgage was a significant,  long-term  
commitment secured against  Mr Bs home. There was no guarantee hed have the same 
benefits or savings  in the many years  to come, and if Mr B fell behind on his payments he 
couldve lost his property.  So it looks like the PPI couldve really been  useful for Mr B in 
protecting his home and giving some  peace of mind.  
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr B about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  Mr B wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, and it couldve  really  been useful for him in case  something went wrong. The 
policy was competitively priced  given how much it would pay out in a claim.  And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall,  
I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6272867