K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Liverpool Victoria  Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
didnt renew Mrs Bs car insurance policy. As a result,  Mr B was stopped  by police for driving  
uninsured. 
background
Mrs B bought a car insurance policy  with LV a number of years  ago and renewed  it in August 
each year by way of automatic renewal. Mrs B believed LV had automatically renewed  her 
car insurance policy in August 2018.
In October  2018 Mr B was stopped by police as their car was showing on a motor insurers 
database as being uninsured. Their car was impounded and Mr B received six points on his 
licence and paid a £300 fine for driving  while  uninsured.
Mr and Mrs B complained to LV. LV said that when Mrs Bs policy came up for renewal, the 
card details it held had expired  so it couldnt collect the premium.  It said it told Mrs B this at 
the time - and so this was why it wasnt able to renew her policy.  
Mrs B said she didnt  receive LVs renewal  letters. But LV said it sent them  to her home  
address. And as it didnt send her any policy documents after the renewal date  and didnt 
collect the premium, it believed this showed  it hadnt renewed Mrs Bs policy.  So LV didnt  
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Mrs B explained  that when they first contacted  LV after 
Mr B was stopped by police; LV told her it was LVs error for failing  to renew her policy.  But it 
later said this wasnt the case.
Mrs B looked at the copy letters  LV provided and asked us to look at her complaint. She said 
they didnt tell her that LV wouldnt automatically renew her policy. Mrs B said this was the 
arrangement shed had with LV for several years.  She said none of the letters told her there  
was an issue with her card or with payment. Mr and Mrs B said they have other  insurance 
policies with LV. They  feel LV could have  done  more to ensure her car insurance policy 
renewed. 
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think  LV had 
done enough to tell Mrs B that it wasnt going to renew her car insurance policy.  So she 
recommended LV do the following in line with our approach:
Act as Mr and Mrs Bs insurer from the date of renewal in August 2018 to the 
date Mr B was stopped  by police and indemnify any claims during  this period.
Provide Mr and Mrs B with a letter confirming this and confirming Mr B wasnt  at 
fault for driving  uninsured.  
Reimburse Mr and Mrs B for their losses  as a result of being stopped by the 
police  subject  to reasonable proof. 
Pay interest on these  losses at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
Mr and Mrs B paid to the date LV provides  a refund.
To address future financial loss as a result of the cost of future insurance with the 
motor conviction   to calculate the difference in the cost of car insurance as a 
result of the conviction  reduce it by half and multiply it by five to reflect the 
number of years insurers ask for Mr Bs driving history. 
Pay Mr and Mrs B £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  its 
caused them. 
Ref: DRN62473852Mr and Mrs B accepted the investigators recommendations. LV would like an ombudsman 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
LV said it wasnt able to use the card details it held for Mrs B  and so this was why it wasnt  
able to renew her car insurance  policy in August 2018. 
LV wrote to Mrs B twice before her policy lapsed.  On 7 July 2018 it invited her to renew  her 
policy  and on 22 July 2018 to remind her of the renewal date. LV didnt mention any 
problem with collection of Mrs Bs renewal premium  in either of these letters.  In its renewal 
invite dated 7 July 2018 it said;
What to do next
 Check  the information enclosed
 Call us if you need to make any changes
 Go online or call us to renew  before 01 August  2018
Your renewal quote includes  changes to your cover, for more information please
see the back of this letter.
So based  on the third option  in this invite, LV has suggested it did enough to alert Mrs B that 
her policy wouldnt automatically renew and that she needed to take action. But I think   
even if Mrs B had received these letters  LV didnt act reasonably. I dont think LV did 
enough to alert Mrs B to a problem with payment, or that her policy  wouldnt automatically 
renew as a result  and that she needed to take action to avoid the consequences of failing 
to renew her policy. I think this was LVs responsibility. Most insurers  provide  an automatic 
renewal option  under motor insurance policies  because of the potentially  serious  
consequences of driving uninsured. Unlike other types of cover, its illegal to drive a car 
while uninsured. 
Mrs B says she doesnt use a mobile  app to check her bank account and admits she didnt  
realise she hadnt received her policy documents. But Mrs B said she thought her policy had 
automatically renewed. I think Mrs Bs expectation  was reasonable in these circumstances  
given that LV had automatically  renewed  her policy in previous years.  
Mr and Mrs B said that Mr B decided to accept the conviction with six penalty  points and a 
£300 fine because  the police notice  warned  the consequences could be even more  serious  if 
Mr B didnt accept the fixed penalty notice within 28 days. Mr and Mrs B have explained that 
the incident has caused them considerable worry and upset. 
I think, on balance  that if LV had done more to alert Mrs B to the problem it had in 
automatically renewing her policy, Mrs B would have been able to provide  up to date 
payment details to remain insured. And so I think LV is responsible for the situation Mr and 
Mrs B find themselves in. 
Ref: DRN62473853So I think its fair that LV should put things right. I agree with the investigators 
recommendations. We know that the premium insurers charge is more for a customer  that 
doesnt have a clean driving history. Mrs B has provided her policy  documents  for her new 
insurer to show the price shes paying  as a result of Mr Bs motor conviction. 
Its difficult to put an exact figure on the impact  the conviction will have on a customers  
premium. Insurers  apply  different premiums  to driving history  in any event. We know that 
most insurers ask for a customers driving history  for the past five years. But we also know  
that the price  can reduce as the years pass.  So we think the fairest  way to address future 
financial loss is for the insurer to calculate  the difference  in premium with - and without - the 
motoring conviction.  It should then multiply  this figure by five to reflect  the number of years  
the conviction can have an impact on premiums   and pay half to reflect  the possible decline 
in impact over the next five years. 
So I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive no doubt  that being stopped by the police - and 
the consequences and inconvenience  that followed has caused them  both considerable 
worry and distress. I agree with the recommendations made  by the investigator, which  Ive 
detailed below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out below,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited to do the following:
Act as Mr and Mrs Bs insurer from the date of renewal in August 2018 to the 
date Mr B was stopped  by police and indemnify any claims during  this period.
Provide Mr and Mrs B with a letter confirming this and confirming Mr B wasnt  at 
fault for driving  uninsured.  
Reimburse Mr and Mrs B for their losses  as a result of being stopped by the 
police  subject  to reasonable proof. This includes  but is not limited  to  
impound fees, storage costs, the £300  fine and any interim  insurance  to release 
their car. 
Pay interest on these  losses at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
Mr and Mrs B paid to the date LV provides  a refund.
To address future financial loss due to the cost of future car insurance with the 
motor conviction   calculate  the difference in the cost of a yearly premium, 
reduce it by half and multiply it by five to reflect the number of years insurers will 
ask for Mr Bs driving history. 
Pay Mr and Mrs B £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  its 
caused them. 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold  income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs B how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN62473854Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6247385