K820x#14complaint
Mrs Gs representative, her daughter  Mrs L, complains on her behalf that she was given 
unsuitable advice  by Lloyds Bank PLC, to take out a whole of life policy for the purposes  of 
Inheritance Tax (IHT) planning.  
background
In 2010 Mrs G was advised to take out the whole of life policy with a £707,144  sum assured 
for £2,750  a month.   It was estimated  she and her late husband  had a £1.84 million estate 
subject to IHT liability. 
It was recorded:
Mrs G and her husband had £3,885 disposable income a month. 
They held just over £1.15 million in private banking and savings.
The policy was in Mrs Gs name only because her husband was unwell.  He sadly  died in 
2014. Mrs G is currently  living in care and has had to sell her home  to fund this.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary she said:
The suitability letter made clear that although  Mrs G and her husband had sufficient 
income at the time, if Mrs G needed  to fund the policy out of their savings the 
premiums would  count as gifts and be included  in the estate on death. And every 
annual payment would be in the estate for the next seven  years. 
Mrs G was advised to get another whole  of life policy to cover  the nil rate band, but 
she and her husband refused. 
The report prepared by the adviser  was comprehensive and looked  at different 
aspects of IHT planning.     
Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. In summary she said:
Her complaint  points  havent been  addressed.  
A family member should have been present at the meeting given both her parents  
were in their late 70s.
Shes not persuaded that affordability  was considered fully. It didnt take into account 
that care was likely  to be needed  in future. 
Although it would have taken 21 years  before the premiums equalled the sum 
assured, the advice  didnt recognise the risk of premiums being discounted and the 
premiums from the capital creating a further liability. 
Having consulted her Independent Financial  Adviser (IFA)  in 2016, shes  discovered  
there were other options available. 
Given their ages  and health, they shouldnt have been advised to set up trusts. An 
alternative would have been  a Business Relief  Scheme (BRS). 
Mrs G and her husband didnt understand that paying premiums  from capital rather 
than excess income  would increase their IHT liability.  Although  it was mentioned  in 
the suitability letter they were elderly, vulnerable, and didnt understand the 
implications of long term care explained  to them. 
Ref: DRN67537302After Mrs G moved into a care home, the business failed  to review her 
circumstances, leaving her with an income shortfall  of £83,000 a year.  It failed  to 
take into account the cost of future care. 
There were  other products available, such as trustee bonds, which  could have 
helped simplify the trustee process  and helped reduce the amount of tax and fees 
payable. 
Having considered the additional points, the adjudicator wasnt  persuaded to change  her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Mrs L says,  Im not persuaded the whole of life policy  was unsuitable  in the 
circumstances. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Ls strength of feeling  about  this matter.   
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  Mrs L wont take the fact my findings  focus  on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by her and the business,  and reach what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I appreciate Mrs L feels a family member should  have been present at the meeting given her 
parents age. But just because  nobody  else was present, doesnt mean the policy was mis-
sold. Ive seen no evidence to suggest  Mrs G and her husband werent in a position  to deal 
with their own financial matters. 
I note Mrs L isnt persuaded that affordability was taken into account, but on the face of the 
evidence I think it was. The adviser  was aware  of their circumstances, and of Mrs Gs 
husbands condition  but couldnt have known how long he was likely to survive or when she 
was going to need to live in a care home. Either way there was going to be a potential IHT 
liability.  
Despite Mrs G and her husbands ages, and the policy being a whole of life commitment, I 
dont think it could have  been known when  care was likely to be needed. And the possibility 
of care being needed at some point in the future had to be weighed up against the need to 
Ref: DRN67537303get cover  against  a potential IHT liability. Despite what Mrs L says, I note the policy  is still in 
place and is likely to pay out the sum assured.  
Im also persuaded  that the suitability  letter made  clear that if Mrs G needed  to fund the 
policy out of her and her husbands savings the premiums would count as gifts and be 
included in the estate on death and that every  annual  payment would be in the estate for the 
next seven years. 
I appreciate there might be alternatives  to the recommendation but this doesnt mean the 
recommendation itself is unsuitable. I also dont think it was necessary to consider all the 
other options that were available. 
Just because a business doesnt  have a particular product available, doesnt  mean  its 
allowed to make an unsuitable recommendation. But in this instance  the business  isnt 
suggesting thats what it did. On the contrary,  the business is saying even if the BRS was 
available, it wouldnt have  recommended it in the circumstances.  And on the face of the 
evidence and on balance  Im persuaded that it wouldnt have. 
Even if the BRS might  have been  a suitable alternative  and Im not suggesting that it was, 
given its own limitations and possible unavailability for Mrs Gs husband  this doesnt mean 
the whole  of life policy was unsuitable. And the same applies for any other  options  that might  
have been suitable.  
Overall I dont think the recommendation was unsuitable for the purposes of IHT, 
notwithstanding Mrs Gs current circumstances. On the face of the evidence  and on balance, 
I also dont think it has provided  a poor service. 
I appreciate Mrs L will be unhappy  Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold  this complaint and give her what  
she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6753730