K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold them the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs A had a joint mortgage  but the policy only covered Mrs A and it provided 
unemployment cover  only.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs A took out unemployment  cover covering only Mrs A. This means theyre 
likely to have rejected the option  of also taking life, critical  illness  and accident and 
sickness cover for Mrs A and any cover at all for Mr A. Mr and Mrs A being  able to do 
this leads me to think that they were  aware that they had choices. So overall  and having  
thought about everything,  I think that BOS made it clear Mr and Mrs A didnt have to take 
out the MPPI  and they chose to take out a level of cover  which  they felt suited them.
BOS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check  that the MPPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, the monthly benefit on the policy covered Mrs A for unemployment 
cover only because  Mr A was self-employed. So I think it couldve proved useful if Mrs A 
lost her job - especially as it was protecting the payments to Mr and Mrs As mortgage 
and it wouldve proved more reliable than relying on friends  and family.  
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr and Mrs A about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the 
MPPI would  have put them off taking out the cover  in the first place. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A have  said. But these points dont change  my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything  
Mr and Mrs A paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs A back  some of 
the cost of the MPPI.  I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs A now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN63862782my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6386278