K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains he was mis-sold an offset mortgage by Lloyds  Bank plc trading as 
Scottish Widows  Bank (SWB).
background
Mr K went  to an intermediary for mortgage  advice. The intermediary recommended  an SWB 
offset mortgage and this was arranged. When the mortgage was up and running  Mr K 
discovered that the offset element of the mortgage didnt work how he had expected it to do 
 in particular  how the offset  feature of the mortgage worked when a choice was made to 
reduce monthly  payments  using the savings offset.
When Mr K complained to SWB it didnt  record his complaint at first. When  it issued its final 
response letter it apologised  for not recording the complaint when it should  have done and 
paid him £50. It didnt,  however, agree it had done anything  else wrong.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld  as he didnt think SWB had done 
anything wrong. He said that it is the role of the intermediary to have knowledge of the 
product it is recommending to its clients. He thought it would  be unreasonable to hold SWB 
responsible for Mr K not being made  aware there is a two month delay in the offset savings 
being applied.  He also said that in A Guide To Offsetting produced  by SWB  it does state, if a 
customer chooses the option to reduce monthly payments using their offset savings, "We 
collect your mortgage payment one month  in arrears, so it's important to remember  the 
savings balance in one month  will reduce the mortgage payment you make two calendar  
months later for example,  offset benefit  earned  in April would reduce your May mortgage 
payment, which  would be collected  on 1 June."
Mr K disagreed. He doesnt think it can be right that it is the responsibility  of the intermediary 
to inform him of how the product works  and that SWB didnt provide him with advice. He 
says SWB sent him material that was misleading. He refers specifically to a document  which 
says: Instead of earning interest on your Offset Saver  Account, you will not be charged 
interest on the equivalent amount of your mortgage. He says this is not how the mortgage 
product works. He says it is grossly misleading  and it is information  that was sent to him by 
SWB. This is not the fault of the intermediary but SWB. It has a clear responsibility to provide 
clear and unambiguous  information regarding their products.  He thinks the statement 
referred to by the investigator in A Guide to Offsetting is confusing  and points  out in the 
same document on page 3 under Frequently  Asked Questions About Our Offset  Facility 
under the heading. Will I earn interest  on the savings in my Offset Saver Account?  it states, 
No you won't earn any interest on the savings  in your Offset  Saver  Account. Instead,  you 
won't in effect,  be charged any interest on the equivalent amount of money in your 
mortgage.
The investigator issued  a second  view confirming he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He repeated it was for the intermediary to advise Mr K on the product and that SWB 
sending information  about the product  doesnt constitute advice. He said the answer given 
by SWB to the question  will you earn interest  on your savings offset account is
accurate, as a customer won't earn interest  on their savings and they won't pay interest on 
the equivalent amount on their mortgage.  The timings  regarding how the balance  of the 
savings account  affects the monthly  payments are dealt  with elsewhere. 
Mr K has asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN68129212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to make it clear that this decision is only about whether  or not SWB has done 
something wrong. I make no findings about  the actions of the intermediary.
I can understand that it would be very frustrating  for Mr K to discover that his mortgage didnt 
operate how he expected it to do. I agree,  however, with the investigator  that it is the 
responsibility of the intermediary and not SWB to give advice on how the product works.  
SWB does have a responsibility to ensure  the product is administered in the way that it set 
out it will be in its literature. Mr K says that literature is misleading. I dont agree. In his 
mortgage offer it is clear  that Mr K can reduce  the amount of interest he pays  by putting 
money into an Offset Savings Account with SWB. The offer makes clear that Mr K needs to 
refer to the product brochure for further  details. Ive read the guide  referred  to by the 
investigator and Mr K. I think it is clear  that there is a lag between when money is put into 
the savings account and when the monthly mortgage payment will be affected by that 
money. 
There are multiple examples I could quote from the guide. Ive quoted some of them here. It 
says: We collect your mortgage payment one month in arrears,  so its important to
remember the savings  balance in one month will reduce  the mortgage payment you make 
two calendar months later. For example, offset  benefit earned in April would reduce your 
May mortgage payment, which would be collected  on 1 June.  The guide also says: As your 
offset benefit is always applied to the following months mortgage payment, the first monthly  
payment of a new mortgage will always be a full payment with no offset benefit applied.  This 
again makes it clear there is a lag between when savings are deposited and when there  is 
an effect on the mortgage payment.  The guide  also says:  Your monthly mortgage payment 
will be reduced each month, based  on the offset  benefit you accrue from the balance of your 
Offset Saver Account. Your offset benefit  will accrue from the day you deposit funds into 
your Offset  Saver  Account  and each month it will be applied to the mortgage payment for the 
following month. So, for example, the offset benefit  earned  from the savings in your Offset 
Account for the month of March, will be deducted  from your mortgage payment for the month 
of April (which  well collect on 1 May). The guide also includes a table setting out an example 
of how this works with specific  figures. 
In conclusion it was the intermediarys responsibility to explain how the mortgage worked to 
Mr K. It is SWBs responsibility to administer the mortgage in the way it sets out in its 
literature it will do. Ive seen no evidence that SWB hasnt done that. I think  the £50 it paid 
for not initially recording the complaint  is fair. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Ref: DRN68129213my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6812921