K820x#14complaint
Miss T has complained about overdraft fees charged by Santander UK Plc on her current 
account.
background
Miss T has a current account  with Santander.  In June 2017 Santander agreed to an 
arranged overdraft on her account with a limit of £500.
In August  and September 2018 Miss Ts account was overdrawn by more than £500. 
Santander charged both arranged and unarranged  overdraft fees to her account for those 
months. Miss T complained to Santander that the charges were unfair. Santander  didnt 
uphold her complaint  and she referred it to this service.
Miss T says the charges  werent explained  to her when she opened the account and 
information on the charges isnt available on-line. She also says she wasnt  given prior 
notice that she was going to go over her arranged  overdraft  limit and she hadnt received 
any statements from Santander
Santander says it stopped  sending  correspondence  to the address Miss T had given it 
because items sent to her at that address had been  returned marked not known.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought Miss T 
should have known about the fees she would  be charged for using her overdraft and for 
exceeding the limit. She also thought it was reasonable  for Santander  to stop sending 
correspondence to the address shed provided  after items had been  returned.
Miss T didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a letter Santander sent to Miss T when it agreed to give her the overdraft. The 
letter was sent before Miss T changed her address with Santander to the address from 
which correspondence was returned.  Ive no reason to suspect Miss T didnt receive this 
letter.
The above  letter set out the fees Miss T would have to pay for using her overdraft within the 
£500 limit. It also says:
If you exceed your Arranged Overdraft limit, you may be charged Unarranged Overdraft 
fees. For more information  on the fees on your account, go to Santander.co.uk/current 
accounts or visit your local branch.
Ive looked at Santanders website  and the fees for arranged  and unarranged overdrafts are 
currently available on it. Ive no reason to suspect  this hasnt been the case  at any time since 
Ref: DRN65786302Miss T was given the overdraft. If she wasnt able to obtain information about  the fees on-
line, Im satisfied Miss T could have obtained  that information at a Santander branch.
Ive considered Miss Ts comment that she wasnt told she was going  to exceed her 
overdraft. The reason she hadnt  been  receiving statements  is that Santander had stopped  
sending them to the address shed given it. I think it was reasonable for Santander to stop 
sending statements to that address after some items had been returned. I understand Miss T 
now says she wasnt living to the address and it was actually a friends address. Im not 
persuaded I could  reasonably decide  that Santander could be held responsible  for the 
consequences of Miss Ts decision to give it an address where she wasnt living.
In addition to the above,  Im satisfied Miss T could have obtained information about  her 
account balance  by other means. The letter Ive referred to above says Santander  offered 
free text or email alerts to tell her when  her balance went below a certain level. It seems  
Miss T didnt take advantage of this facility. She could also have checked  her balance  using  
her account  card at an ATM to see if she was in danger of exceeding her arranged  overdraft 
limit.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Miss T should  have  known she would be charged  for 
using her overdraft and if she exceeded  her arranged overdraft limit. Im also satisfied she 
could have taken  steps to find out if she was at risk of exceeding the arranged limit. Given  
this, Im satisfied Santander has applied the charges fairly and in accordance with the 
account terms and conditions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6578630