K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains, in summary,  that Capital One (Europe) plc did not do enough to help him 
recover all the money he had paid to an investment trading platform using his Capital  One 
Mastercard credit card.
Background
After receiving a call from an entity  offering investment trading, O Ltd, Mr S decided  to open  
an account with them. From February  2018  to May 2018, Mr S deposited five payments 
totalling £1,400 onto his trading  account  with O Ltd. 
Mr S says he was locked  out of his trading account on 7 June 2018 and his account was 
subsequently closed without his consent. O Ltd returned the remaining balance  on Mr S 
account of £9.72 to him on 13 June 2018.  Mr S says he tried to reinstate his account  with O 
Ltd but they ignored his requests. Following  this, he asked O Ltd to return  all the payments 
he made onto his trading account, these  requests  were also ignored. 
Mr S approached Capital One to assist him with processing chargeback  claims on the basis 
that O Ltd misrepresented themselves as they withdrew their regular services unexpectedly. 
He also felt he didnt  receive a legitimate service from O Ltd because  when he made 
successful trades,  he was unable  to rebuild funds without placing further trades and the 
trading account would  freeze. He says the account software was manipulating and distorted 
prices and pay-outs. He explained  that when he lost money, O Ltd contacted  him to pressure 
him to place  more  funds  on the account but he never got his money back. 
Capital One didnt  think Mr S had a suitable chargeback option and it considered the service 
he paid for was received  in accordance  with section 75. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint and didnt  uphold it. Mr S asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold the 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Chargeback 
The chargeback  process is relevant  here. A chargeback is the process by which  payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchant acquirers, under the 
relevant scheme rules. What this means  is that Capital One can in certain circumstances ask 
for a payment made to be refunded. One of those  circumstances is where the goods or 
services arent supplied or as described  by the merchant. 
A chargeback  isnt guaranteed  to result  in a refund. There  needs  to be a right to a 
chargeback under the scheme rules.  And under  those rules the merchant acquirer (O Ltds 
bank) can defend  a claim if it doesnt agree  with the request. If a chargeback is defended, 
the card issuer (in this case Capital One) can make a second presentment of the 
chargeback by providing further supporting  evidence. If it is still defended by the merchant, 
they can ask the card scheme  provider to decide whether  a refund should be given. This 
final part of the chargeback process  is called arbitration. 
Ref: DRN69829172There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback  when a consumer asks for one. 
But we would consider  it good practice  for a chargeback to be attempted where the rights 
exist and there is some prospect of success.  
The Mastercard  chargeback rules relevant to the date of Mr S transactions state that 
chargebacks are available to the card issuer for transactions in which any value is 
purchased for gambling, investment or similar purposes. However, issuers  have no 
chargeback rights related  to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of 
such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses  resulting  from the use of such chips or value. 
Im satisfied that chargeback rights are limited  through  the Mastercard scheme rules when it 
comes to claims  relating to gambling, investment  or similar. But they arent  excluded 
altogether. Having clarified this point with Mastercard, Im satisfied there would be an 
appropriate chargeback route if a merchant does not make funds transferred to it available  
for use. But in this case, O Ltd did make  Mr S funds  available for use when they were  
transferred onto the trading account.  His concerns are around the legitimacy of O Ltd, his 
experience using his trading account and that they withdrew their services  none of these 
scenarios would be applicable for the very limited chargeback  options available  to Capital  
One. So, I dont find  it treated him unfairly in not processing chargeback claims for him and 
thats because  no dispute rights existed for the issues  he experienced with O Ltd. 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive also considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold  Mr S complaint on 
the basis  that Capital One is liable to him under section  75, because  this might  give him 
additional rights. As a starting  point, its useful to set out what the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement  falling within  section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation  to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim  against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who,  with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
(a)under  a non-commercial agreement, 
(b)so far as the claim relates to any single item to which  the supplier has attached  a 
cash price not exceeding  £100  or more  than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1.a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b)  or 12(c); and
2.a transaction  financed  by the agreement; and
3.a claim for misrepresentation or breach  of contract related to that transaction;  
4.but not a claim which relates  to any single  item which the supplier has attached  a 
cash price below  £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem  to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch as there are three parties involved:
Ref: DRN698291731)Mr S (the debtor)
2)Capital One (the creditor); and
3)O Ltd (the supplier)  as shown on Mr S paperwork and Capital Ones  business file 
submissions.
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been  given  a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include  whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mr S has 
deposited funds to open an account  in exchange  for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform  and being able to withdraw  them as and when he wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain  contractual promises   Im satisfied there  was a 
transaction (which  Ill call the deposit-transaction)  as defined by section 75. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition  would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase  to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must  mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer  clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation  to his purchases from suppliers,  because he is 
given time to pay for his purchase  under  the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary  definition  here, if Mr S had not used his credit card he would have had 
to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit  and obtain the investment 
account this supposedly entitled him to. So, its clear  that the deposit-transaction was 
financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what  Mr S claim is 
here. Its evident from his testimony and correspondence he provided that he feels  O Ltd 
was illegitimate and didnt provide the service he thought he paid for (namely  the smooth 
and continuous  use of an investment trading account). 
I appreciate Mr S told our investigator that he was provided with binary  options trading, 
which was unregulated and sent an email from O Ltd explaining this. This appears to conflict 
with the information Mr S told Capital  One which was that he signed up to a forex  trading 
account  which  he repeated on several  occasions.  In any event, I do take Mr S point that 
there were binary options investment scams  around the time of his payments to O Ltd. But at 
the time of Mr S transactions binary options werent unregulated, they were  regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Scammers would often operate  unregulated and 
unlicensed investment platforms.  However, Ive noted that O Ltd was regulated by the FCA 
at the time of Mr S payments to them.  Mr S also hasnt  presented any persuasive evidence 
that O Ltd was operating a scam investment company. Taking all of this into consideration, 
Im not persuaded that O Ltd was likely operating as a scam investment company and was 
operating with the required regulation it needed.
Ive also considered Mr S claim that he was unable to withdraw funds  from his account. 
Mr S hasnt provided any evidence he was unable  to do this in accordance  with the terms 
and conditions of his agreement  with O Ltd. But he has explained that he made some  
winnings and lost money, which isnt uncommon with the type of investment trading  he 
subscribed to. 
Ref: DRN69829174Ive noted O Ltd emailed Mr S on 12 June 2018  stating: Further  to my previous email,  I can 
now confirm the remaining funds  in your account have been sent back to you and your 
account closed
So, it would appear that Mr S was able to access his available  balances,  albeit  at a loss. 
Ive considered Mr S remaining claims that he wasnt provided with the continuous, 
uninterrupted use of a trading account with O Ltd and that they closed his account  without 
his consent. As I already  explained, the transaction in accordance  with section 75, related 
to depositing funds  onto a trading account  that Mr S could  use and withdraw as and when he 
wished. Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that his agreement  with O Ltd 
(in respect  of the transaction) was based upon the performance  or the indefinite use of a 
trading account with O Ltd. It follows that I dont find that Mr S claims against O Ltd directly 
relate to the transaction in accordance with section 75. And I dont think  Capital One can 
fairly be held liable for claims  that arent evidenced or relate to matters  outside of the 
transaction.  
Ive noted  that Mr S told our investigator that he thinks Capital One ought to have flagged  his 
payments to O Ltd because of the BSI code. And this was on the basis that O Ltd was not 
regulated and his payments were unusual  and irregular. I explained  in this decision that O 
Ltd was, and still is, regulated by the FCA, so I cant agree Capital One ought to have had 
concerns about it based on any lack of regulation. Ive also noted Mr S payments were 
spread across  several months and were for relatively low amounts at a time, so I dont  find 
that Capital  One ought to have determined the payments were  unusual  or irregular. Based 
on this, I dont think Capital One had any reasonable  grounds to be concerned about  Mr S 
payments to O Ltd. 
Ive noted Mr S states he complained to the FCA about O Ltd. Should  Mr S wish to pursue 
his complaint about his experience with his trading account with O Ltd and account closure,  
he may wish to do this directly with O Ltd (if he hasnt already). 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021.
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6982917