K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage held with National  Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest). 
Mrs H, one of several parties  to the mortgage,  complains  that NatWest  hasnt  updated her 
contact details and kept her informed about the operation of the mortgage.  Mrs H is 
represented here by Mr H.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
The mortgage was taken out many  years ago, with Mrs H  under her former name  one of 
four borrowers. The parties to the mortgage have evolved over the years, but none  of the 
other current parties to the mortgage  have  joined in making the complaint. 
The absence of the other borrowers from the complaint has dramatically limited our scope to 
address the matters Mr H wanted us to look into on Mrs Hs behalf. Thats because our rules 
require us to have the consent of all eligible complainants, and thats  not been possible here. 
It seems  that not all of the current borrowers  are in communication with each other.  
All weve been able to consider is how long it took NatWest to register  Mrs Hs new name 
after she married, and then register her new address. In both cases, our investigator agreed 
that the business had been slow to act. But he also noted that NatWest  had now made the 
necessary changes, and offered Mrs H £200  by way of compensation for the delay.  He 
thought that was fair, but Mr H asked  for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
Under our rules,  we can consider a complaint  from a consumer. Mrs H is a consumer, and 
so meets  the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. The rules say that a 
complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the 
eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr H is bringing the complaint on 
Mrs Hs behalf, with her authority.
But I must explain that, although  Mr H is representing Mrs H, it is Mrs H who is NatWests  
customer. Mr Hs role is to bring Mrs Hs complaint on her behalf,  in the same way that other 
consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant  to represent them in a complaint. But this 
does not entitle Mr H to air his own grievances about NatWest, because  he is not its 
customer and this is not his complaint. His role is limited to putting forward Mrs Hs 
complaint.
Ref: DRN62750722Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In asking for a review, Mr H hasnt  made 
any material new points or presented any material  new evidence for me to consider. From 
that, Ive inferred that he wants  me to decide  the complaint  on the basis  of the same  
evidence that the investigator considered. 
Ive done that, and I have some disappointing news for Mrs H; Ive reached  the same  overall  
conclusions as the investigator and for much  the same overall reasons. Its clear that theres 
more Mr H would like us to consider, but without the other parties to this mortgage  joining 
the complaint,  we cannot do that. Our consideration of the complaint is restricted  to the 
shortcomings in how NatWest updated  its contact  records for Mrs H, and kept in contact with 
her. Those matters are now resolved, and NatWest has offered Mrs H £200 compensation; a 
sum that I consider fair given the circumstances  and our limited scope to look into it. If 
NatWest hadnt  made the offer, I wouldnt have awarded more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mrs H to decide if 
on further reflection,  she wants  to contact NatWest to accept its offer of compensation. My 
final decision  concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H (or Mr H on 
her behalf)  to accept  or reject my decision before 16 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6275072