K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained on behalf  of Mrs A that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) had 
unfairly declined  a claim for storm damage under her property owners insurance policy and 
about how it handled her claim.
background
In early April 2018 Mr K made a claim to RSA on behalf of Mrs A. He said some lead had 
fallen off a dormer end onto the patio below.  The lead was a large triangular piece which had 
been fixed above a dormer window.
RSA asked him to provide two quotes  for repairing  the damage.  Mr K did that. RSA 
contacted one of the contractors whod given a quote and asked their opinion on the cause 
of the damage. RSA said it was told by the contractor the damage had probably been  
caused by poor workmanship.
Following that call in June 2018  RSA declined the claim. It said there were  no storm 
conditions when the damage  happened  and poor workmanship wasnt  covered by Mrs As 
policy.
Mr K complained to RSA but it didnt change  its decision. So he brought  Mrs As complaint to 
this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it.  As Mr K didnt agree, the matter has been 
referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs As home insurance policy,  like most policies, is only intended to cover sudden  events 
that she couldnt have foreseen or were out of her control.  Insurers  dont want  to cover 
anything thats  caused by faulty workmanship or part of normal  household maintenance. 
Insurers write their policy with this aim and thats usually reflected in what  they cover and 
what they exclude.
Mrs A has cover  against storm damage and accidental damage  cover.  Ill look at each of 
these in turn.
When I look at a storm claim  complaint,  I firstly  consider whether there  were  storm 
conditions around  the time that the damage  happened.  I think  a storm generally involves 
violent winds, usually  accompanied  by rain, hail or snow. From the weather data Ive seen, 
the weather in the relevant location  for the period  leading up to the damage  happening was 
much milder than a storm. I appreciate  that both contractors who gave quotes to Mr K have 
said that in their opinion the damage  was caused by high winds but unfortunately  for Mrs A 
their opinions are not supported by the weather data. So I think RSA treated Mrs A fairly in 
saying that the damage hadnt been caused  by a storm.
Mrs As policy defines accidental damage as:
Sudden,  unexpected and visible damage which is not inevitable  and has not been caused  
on purpose.
Ref: DRN68140482On the face of it a piece of lead suddenly falling off the dormer seems  to meet the policy 
definition of accidental  damage.  But there  are a number of general exclusions in the policy.  
In particular damage caused by poor or faulty workmanship isnt covered.
Ive listened to a call in which one of RSAs claims handlers spoke to one of the contractors 
whod provided  an estimate for the repair works. He said in his opinion there wasnt  enough 
support and fixings for the piece of lead that had fallen off and so wind had been able to get 
behind it and ripped it off. This suggests to me that the main  cause  of the damage  was faulty 
workmanship which isnt covered by Mrs As policy.
I appreciate that the same  contractor appears  to have changed his opinion later and said he 
thought the lead had become  dislodged due to high winds. But in the absence  of any new 
evidence supporting the change in opinion and in the light of the weather data, Im inclined 
to place more  weight on what he told RSA originally. Im not persuaded that it was 
unreasonable for RSA to say that the exclusion  for faulty workmanship applies.
I also think RSA had enough information  on which to base its decision to decline the claim. 
So it wasnt  unreasonable for it not to get a third opinion.
I can appreciate Mr Ks concern that the family with a young  child living in the property might 
be injured because there was another dormer  with the same sort of lead fixed to it and that 
might also have come off. I can see that the claim was made in early  April. But it wasnt until 
mid-May that Mrs A authorised RSA to deal with Mr K. Its claims handler called the roofer 
about the damage in early June and RSA declined the claim in mid-June.  I dont think  that 
there were any excessive delays on RSAs  part in reaching its claim decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K on behalf  of 
Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 1 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6814048