K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy that Gefion Insurance A/S (Gefion) will not make the full payment he was
expecting following a claim under his motor  insurance policy.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 June 2019, a copy of which is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was intending to uphold  Mr Hs complaint  
against Gefion.  I invited all parties to let me have  any further comments  before  I reached  a 
final decision. Gefion  responded  to the provisional decision to confirm  it has nothing  further  
to add. 
Mr H responded, saying I was incorrect to say he hadnt returned the declaration  allowing  
the police  report  to be obtained, but he accepted this form must have been lost before it was 
received by Gefions  agents. Mr H is also frustrated I didnt  consider  the subsequent financial  
losses he said he incurred as a result of this claim. I offered to consider these if he provided 
evidence. However,  Mr H subsequently decided he would not provide  this because he didnt 
think it would  influence  the outcome I had already reached, and that he would accept the 
findings in my provisional decision, in order to bring this matter  to a close.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis neither  party has asked  me to consider  any additional evidence, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I outlined in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and I require Gefion Insurance A/S to:
Pay Mr H the outstanding payment of £4,592;
Pay simple interest  on the outstanding payment at a rate of 8% from 6 August 2018
(the date the car was collected) until the date of payment
Pay £150 for the trouble and upset Mr H has experienced
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Gefion Insurance A/S to take off tax from this interest. Gefion 
Insurance A/S must  give Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63534002extract decision dated 10 June 2019
complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Gefion Insurance A/S (Gefion) will not make the full payment he was
expecting following  a claim under his motor insurance  policy.
background
In June 2018,  Mr Hs car was stolen. When  it was found,  it had sustained  significant
damage. The car was recovered to a local garage but, after being inspected, Gefion decided
it had such extensive damage it was a total loss. Gefion offered to pay Mr H the pre-incident
value of the car (less his excess) which he accepted. The payment was offered in two parts.
The first paid to Mr H in July was just over £11,000. Gefion said the final payment would  be
made when  the car was collected for salvage.
However, before making the final payment, Gefion asked for a copy  of the police  report. This
couldnt be obtained without Mr Hs consent. Mr H was asked to sign and return  a
declaration so the Gefion could consider  the information in the police report.
Mr H didnt sign the declaration. He said he didnt think it was necessary as the Gefions
agents had already agreed  to settle his claim.  Without sight  of the police report, Gefion
declined to make the final payment. Mr H asked for his car to be returned to him by the
salvage agents.  However, weve since been made aware that his car has been scrapped so
therefore cant  be returned.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She said she thought the Gefion  was entitled to
ask for any information to help it decide the claim.  On that basis, she thought it had acted
correctly, and didnt make any recommendations  for it to do anything more. Mr H didnt
agree and this matter  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im reaching  a different
conclusion to the investigator.
My role here is to see if the insurer has acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy.
That being said, Im also mindful  the policy  places  some obligations on Mr H, one of which
says:
7. Claims  Handling
d. You must  fully co-operate with any third party service provider We (or anyone  else
who acts on our behalf)  may instruct in in order to assist in dealing  with the claim
Mr H has said Gefion  agreed to two payments (one before and one after the car was
collected for salvage)  and they should honour that. Gefion has said it wanted to review the
police report before  making the final payment. The policy terms  say the insurer  is able to
take  over, defend  or settle any claim  under this policy .
Its clear from the policy  terms Gefion can decide how and by what means to settle any
claim. Its also clear  Mr H needed to comply with the Gefion  or any agents  acting on their
behalf. This means Mr H ought to have signed the document giving  Gefion consent  to
request the police report,  irrespective of the agreement to settle the claim by making a
payment.
Ive looked back at the information available; I cant see Gefion explained the consequences
Ref: DRN63534003of not complying with its investigation to Mr H. He might have acted differently if hed been
aware he needed to co-operate with the request under the terms of his policy. From Mr Hs
point of view,  two months after the car had been collected by the salvage  agents  he still
hadnt received the final payment promised  to settle his claim. So he asked for his car to be
returned to him.
As soon as Mr H asked for car back, Gefion or its agents should have explained the
consequences of this. As far as I can see at this point Mr H would have had two options. He
could return the payment hed received and he would  take possession of his car. Or he could
have given permission  for the police report to be released to Gefion and they would consider
his claim. But that might have led to the claim being declined, which could then have also led
to him having to return the payment.
However, I cant see either option was explained to Mr H. He was told Gefion was reviewing
his claim and wanted  to see the police report. But in Mr Hs mind, the settlement of the claim
had already been agreed.
In any event, weve been  told Mr Hs car was scrapped after he asked for it to be returned.
Its possible, if Gefion had seen the police report, they might have gone on to decline the
claim in line with the policy  terms  and conditions. However, by scrapping Mr Hs car, he has
been put in the position  of not being able to take his car back and return the payment.
I dont think its fair that Mr H should be without either his car or a settlement because Gefion
or their agents  werent clear about why more  information was being requested. On the basis
the car was scrapped  before  the Gefions  investigation  was complete and after Mr H had
asked for it back, I dont think its fair that Mr H is without the full payment he was promised.
Gefions agents have told us that someone should have told Mr H his car had been scrapped
but nobody did. Having considered Gefions handling  of this matter,  I can see its caused
some worry  and frustration  for Mr H because hes been  without the full settlement or his car
for several months.  Gefions agents havent been  clear about  why they needed  extra
information from him and what  it might  mean for his claim  if he didnt comply.
Gefions agents have acknowledged they should have told Mr H his car had been scrapped
but have said they didnt do so. I think the poor handling of this claim  and lack of clear
communication has had an impact on Mr H. As a result, I think  a payment should be made
for the trouble  and upset hes experienced.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I currently intend to uphold  this complaint. So I require Gefion
Insurance A/S to:
Pay Mr H the outstanding  payment  of £4,592;
Pay simple interest on the outstanding payment at a rate of 8% from 6 August 2018
(the date the car was collected)  until the date of payment
Pay £150  for the trouble  and upset Mr H has experienced
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Gefion Insurance A/S to take off tax from this interest. Gefion 
Insurance A/S must  give Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6353400