K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly  declined  his claim under Section 75
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
In 2003, Mr S appointed a law firm to represent  him in his divorce proceedings. Mr S says he
paid the law firm a total of around £26,000 for their advice and representation throughout the
proceedings. Mr S says that these payments were  made on his Nationwide credit  card
between 2003  and 2006. Mr S says the law firm didnt provide him with a contract at the
time.
Mr S is unhappy with how the lawyer at the law firm handled his divorce  proceedings  in
particular, hes complained about  the lawyers lack of preparation and advice he was given
throughout the proceedings   in particular about  the advice he was given in relation to the
transfer of two properties. Mr S has also complained about the way the law firm prepared for
the final hearing in June  2006. So, Mr S raised a section 75 claim with Nationwide.
Nationwide said section  9 of the Limitation Act 1980 says a claim for misrepresentation must
be raised within six years from the date the cause of action accrued. And that they believed
Mr S would have been reasonably aware there  was a breach of contract before six years.
Therefore, Nationwide considered Mr S complaint to be time barred and they didnt  accept
liability for any misrepresentation or breach of contract made  by the law firm.
Mr S says he spoke to Nationwide about  this in 2011 and explained  that he wasnt in the
right frame of mind to bring an official complaint to them at that point.  Mr S says he was told
by the advisor  to take his time and to raise a complaint when  he felt more  able to. 
Nationwide said they werent able to find any record of this conversation and that as there  
was no contract in place  between  Mr S and the law firm, they werent able to say there  had 
been a breach of contract in any event.
Our investigator looked into Mr S concerns. In summary, she said Mr S claim for a breach
of contract  against the law firm had exceeded  the time limits under the Limitation Act 1980.  
Our investigator also said that whilst  there wasnt any information to show Mr S raised his
claim with Nationwide  in 2011, this wouldnt have  made a difference as it was still outside of
the time limits set out in the Act.
Mr S disagreed. He reiterated that he was told in 2011 to take the time he felt was needed
so, he says this should  be taken into consideration. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
I have to decide what, if anything, Nationwide should do to resolve Mr S complaint. To do
that, I have  to decide what  I think is fair and reasonable, having  regard  to (amongst other
things) any relevant  law. In this case, relevant law includes  section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and The Limitation Act 1980.
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the credit card account  holder has
an equal right to claim against  the credit card provider if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or services.
Ref: DRN60491732Mr S has made a claim  under section 75 of the CCA. And for section 75 to apply their needs
to be a direct  relationship  between the debtor, the creditor  and the supplier as set out within
the CCA.  This is often called the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship, or D-C-S link and I
need to decide if the link exists in this case.
This means  the person  who paid for the service (Mr S), should have a contractual
relationship with the company who supplied the service (law firm), as well as with the credit
provider (Nationwide). I can see from the information provided that Mr S made  payments
directly to the law firm from his Nationwide credit card. Therefore, Im satisfied that the
necessary relationship exists and that Mr S claim is within the financial limits set out in the
CCA.
In this decision, I am considering whether Nationwide have acted fairly and reasonably when
dealing with Mr S section 75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether or not any
right to claim  against the supplier (and so Nationwide) have expired under the Limitation Act.
The Limitation Act
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply  to different causes of
action that a party can pursue.
The points Mr S has raised about  the law firm are that he doesnt think they carried  out their
service with reasonable care and skill  in both the initial proceedings and the final hearing.
Therefore, Mr S feels  there has been a breach  of contract.  As Mr S rights to claim against
Nationwide under section 75 are on the same basis as those he could make a claim against
the supplier, I consider the relevant time limits  set out in the Limitation Act are:
Section 5 which applies to causes of action founded on simple contract law  which 
includes breaches of contract.
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute.
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked  to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim.
Breach of contract
Section 5 of the Limitation  Act states  An action founded on simple contract shall not be
brought after the expiration of six years  from the date which that cause  of action accrued.
A breach of contract  occurs when one of the parties to that contract doesnt perform  the
obligations set out in the contract. Its clear  from everything Mr S has told us that he doesnt
think the law firm carried out their service with reasonable care and skill. Therefore, he thinks
there has been a breach of contract here. So, Mr S would have six years to raise  a claim
from when a loss occurred as a result  of the breach  of contract.
As Mr S hasnt  been  able to provide us with a contract between  him and the law firm, I
havent been able to determine what services were  agreed between  the two parties.
However, Mr S complaint refers to a number of issues  he faced with the law firm from when
he first appointed them in 2003  to the final hearing  which took place in June 2006. And that
he lost out financially in 2006  as a result of the advice he was given about the transfer of two
properties. Mr S says he was unhappy with the outcome of the final hearing and the actions
carried out by the law firm. Therefore, he went to another law firm for advice on the appeal  in
Ref: DRN60491733July 2006.
So, Mr S would have  had six years to raise a claim from when a loss occurred as a result of
the alleged breach of contract. Mr S has said he lost out financially when properties were
transferred to his ex-wife  under  the advice of his solicitor. Mr S considers this advice to have
been given without reasonable care or skill. This advice  and subsequent transfer  of
properties took place following the ancillary  proceedings in late 2006.  This means  Mr S
would have had until 2012 at the latest  to raise his claim. But Mr S didnt raise his claim  with
Nationwide until 2019. So, I think  Mr S raised his claim outside of the time limit set out in
section 5.
Sums recoverable by statute law
Section 9 of the Limitation  Act states  An action to recover any sum recoverable  by virtue of
any enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which
the cause of action accrued.
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mr S claim against Nationwide  is under
section 75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of
parliament). But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in
the Limitation  Act.
Section 75 makes the lender  jointly  and severally liable for a suppliers breach of contract  
effectively making Nationwide step into the shoes of the law firm. This means that the
limitation period  under  section 9 is the same  for breach  of contract  and gives  rise to
effectively the same  cause of action.
s.14A Limitation Act
Although the limitation time period  is six years  for cause of action as set out above,  section
14A provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. That is, if 
later than the six year period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had
both the knowledge required to bring  a claim for negligence, and the right to bring  such a
claim.
This is a relevant  consideration  for Mr S claim.  Not only because Mr S raised his complaint
with Nationwide  over six years from the loss that may have occurred. But also because  this
is a negligence  claim. So, when applying section 14A in this instance, Ive considered when
Mr S knew,  or ought to have known, that he had a claim  for negligence  against  the law firm.
Mr S has told us he feels the law firm acted negligently on the initial  advice they gave him
about the transfer of properties  in 2004. Mr S has provided us with a letter  from the law firm
which has suggested he wait to transfer the properties until a settlement has been  reached
between him and his ex-wife. Mr S says as a result of this advice, he no longer owns the two
properties and feels he has lost out on around  £600,000. Mr S says it was suggested to him
by the law firm that he appeal the final judgment.
Mr S says when he approached the second  law firm for advice in 2006, they looked through
his file from the previous law firm and suggested an appeal would be unsuccessful. Mr S
says he was given  feedback that the previous  law firm had given little to no advice to Mr S.
So, I think it was at this point Mr S realised  that the advice he was given may have been
negligent. Therefore,  Mr S had three years from July 2006 when he knew or ought  to have
Ref: DRN60491734known he had a cause to make  a claim.  But as he didnt until 2019, I consider it reasonable
for Nationwide  to have  concluded the claim was made out of time.
Mr S says he raised his concerns about the service  provided by the law firm with Nationwide
in 2011. Mr S says he was told by the advisor to take the time he needed  as Mr S says he
wasnt in the right frame  of mind to make  an official  complaint. But Nationwide say they dont
have a record of this conversation taking place.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S has told us and Ive considered the information  I have
available to me. But I dont think theres  sufficient evidence to show  Mr S raised  a claim with
Nationwide in 2011.
I realise this will come  as a disappointment to Mr S. But as Ive explained, it seems  to me
that Mr S breach of contract  claim against the supplier  and the like claim against
Nationwide more than likely exceeded  the relevant time limits  set out in the Limitation Act.
So, it would not be unreasonable for Nationwide to take this into account when considering
Mr S section 75 claim against them.
So, given that Mr S claim now is more than likely  time barred under the Limitation Act, I
think Nationwides decision not to look into the section 75 claim was fair.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add. 
Mr S responded. He said he spoke to a named employee in Nationwide and not someone 
as I referred to in my provisional decision. Mr S reiterated that he was told by this employee 
that he could take the time he needed. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about  the Nationwide employee he spoke to in 2011. 
However, as this decision could be published,  it wouldnt be fair for me to name this 
individual. But for Mr S reference, Ill refer to him as Mr E in this decision.
Nationwide havent  been able to provide  any evidence to show  Mr S raised a section 75 
claim in 2011. And the evidence they have been  able to provide doesnt show  a record  of the 
conversation Mr S refers  to with Mr E. Whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr S, I dont think theres enough evidence to show  he raised a claim in 2011.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Leanne McEvoy
Ref: DRN60491735ombudsman
Ref: DRN6049173