K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that a finance agreement she entered into with Mercedes-Benz  Financial  
Services UK Limited (MBFS)  was misrepresented to her. She feels she was misled into 
signing a different agreement to that which she initially agreed.
background
Miss M took receipt of a new car in July 2018.  She financed  the deal through a four year hire 
purchase agreement  with MBFS with a maximum annual mileage of 10,000.
She believed  shed agreed monthly repayments of £260 and was shocked to find she was 
being charged £282.38 instead. She was also disappointed with the service from MBFS as 
when she tried to obtain a copy of the finance  agreement in early  August 2018; they failed to 
get one to her. She says when they finally  did provide  the agreement  it was unsigned. She 
also says that the dealership told her the discrepancy in the monthly payment would be 
resolved and that they promised to repay  the difference.
MBFS didnt agree with Miss M. They said shed signed the finance agreement  for the 
correct monthly instalment of £282.38  and shed had time to take the agreement away  and 
consider it. So if that figure was wrong she should have highlighted it earlier.  They said that 
the dealership  disputed  ever agreeing a lower figure or promising to pay the difference and 
they therefore didnt think they needed to take any further action.
But Miss M wasnt  satisfied with their response  so she referred her complaint  to this service  
and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He was provided with an electronically signed copy 
of the finance  agreement  and also noted  there was an electronic trail that demonstrated 
Miss M had signed the agreement on line. As the business disputed  Miss Ms version of 
events and there was a signed copy of the agreement  he thought it was reasonable to 
suggest Miss M had agreed to be bound by it. He noted that the customer declaration 
Miss M had also signed on line said that she agreed  she had:
been given both a written and verbal explanation  relating  to certain  aspects of this 
agreement, including  the payment details (and) the total amount payable
And he also noted that the front page  of the hire purchase agreement set out that there 
would be 48 monthly  payments  of £282.38.
So he didnt think he had evidence  that the agreement had been mis-sold to Miss M. He 
discussed the problems Miss M had with the dealership and MBFS reached an agreement 
with the dealership to offer a service free of charge.  So he thought that overall  MBFS had 
been fair and reasonable and he didnt think they needed to take any further action.
But Miss M disagreed and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN60996732I dont think theres evidence here that the agreement was mis-sold  to Miss M. I know  that 
will be disappointing  for her so please let me explain why I agree with the adjudicators view 
of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement which  is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement. As a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.The relevant 
law says that the agreement should  not have been  misrepresented. If it was then MBFS are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
I understand Miss Ms testimony  that she was told the monthly payments would be less but 
MBFS havent been able to corroborate what she says she was told and Ive seen the signed 
documents and an electronic trail that demonstrates  she did sign the documents  on-line and 
had had sight of them.
The customer declaration  she signed  explained  that shed been provided with an explanation 
of the payments and the hire purchase  agreement clearly set them out. So Im persuaded 
that this is the most likely version of events and Im afraid I dont  agree that the finance was 
mis-sold.
I have reviewed the email  and text communications but Ive seen  no evidence in those that 
Miss M was promised lower payments  or that the dealership had promised to refund the 
difference. 
Its clear she wasnt provided with a copy of the finance agreement  when she asked for one 
and whilst MBFS are only responsible for antecedent actions of the dealership  (those that 
took place before the agreement was reached)  I can see that theyve endeavoured  to 
support Miss M and have liaised with the dealership and secured a free service. I think  their 
actions have been reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think  they need to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6099673