K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Nationwide Building  Society caused  them  distress after they 
mistakenly included  another  customers information  in documents they sent to them.
background
Mr and Mrs V are existing customers of Nationwide. In May 2018  they had a meeting with a 
Nationwides financial planning  adviser to discuss their finances. A Financial Planning  
Report (the report) was completed by the adviser to summarise the discussions that had 
taken place at the meeting.  
In mid-June 2018 a further  meeting was held with Nationwides adviser and a copy of the 
report, and related documents were given to Mr and Mrs V to review.  However,  
Mr and Mrs V noticed three  of the four documents contained the details of other Nationwide  
customers, including their addresses, contact details  and other  personal  data.  An updated 
copy of the documents were then provided  to Mr and Mrs V the following day  however the 
contact details still hadnt been  updated correctly.
Mr and Mrs V were  concerned about  what had happened so they raised a complaint. In July 
2018 the documents were  finally updated and correct versions were given to Mr and Mrs V. 
Over the following months they received several letters from Nationwide  regarding  the 
complaint. One of these letters said theyd been  offered  £75 compensation but theyd 
refused to accept it. Mr and Mrs V say that wasnt right. So they contacted their local 
Nationwide branch to get help in resolving their concerns. But Nationwide didnt uphold their 
complaint. Mr and Mrs V remained unhappy so they asked this service to look into their 
complaint. They also told us that £75 compensation had been paid into their bank  account  in 
October 2018 without  them being  made  aware. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said she wouldnt ask 
Nationwide to increase the compensation as Nationwide had confirmed there hadnt been a 
misuse of Mr and Mrs Vs data. Although Mr and Mrs V had to take additional steps  to get 
their contact details added to the documents following Nationwides mistake,  our investigator  
thought the compensation  theyd  already  been  paid was in-line with what  the service  would  
award. 
Mr and Mrs V didnt  agree as they wanted  more compensation for what  happened.  So the 
case has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I feel that the £75 
compensation Nationwide have paid Mr and Mrs V for the trouble  theyd been  caused is a 
fair amount. 
Theres no dispute that Nationwide made a mistake when it gave Mr and Mrs V details of 
other customers information. Mr and Mrs V say they were distressed by this. But Nationwide  
have reassured  Mr and Mrs V that their personal details havent been sent to anyone  else. 
Mr and Mrs V have  now been provided with the correct documentation, and Nationwide  have 
apologised for what  happened. 
Ref: DRN69298912Mr and Mrs V also said they were unhappy that it took several  attempts for Nationwide to 
update their records correctly, that Nationwide had been using customer  documents  as 
templates, and hadnt been proof reading  them before sending them. They said that because 
of this they think their data was breached. 
Ive looked at the evidence available and I appreciate Mr and Mrs Vs concerns. However 
Nationwide have told us they accept that their process wasnt  robust enough, and theyre 
updating this so that checks take place before any documentation is given to customers.  Ive 
no reason to doubt theyve done  this. 
Mr and Mrs V also told us they were unhappy  that the letters they received from Nationwide 
about their complaint were poorly  written.  They say that because two letters  were  addressed  
to Mr instead of Mr and Mrs V and one of them said theyd declined £75 compensation. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Vs frustration about these points. But I can see that the letters  were  
correctly addressed to Mr V and that Nationwide  apologised for its mistake. Ive also seen 
Nationwides records which show Mr V did verbally decline the £75 compensation over the 
phone before a letter  was sent to him. 
Whilst I do understand Mr and Mrs Vs position due to the issues theyve  experienced. Its 
not for me to punish Nationwide for making mistakes.  Taking  into account all the 
circumstances I think Nationwide has done  enough  to resolve  this complaint. I think  the £75 
compensation theyve  paid is a fair amount. I say this because  I dont think  the complaint 
had a substantive impact  on Mr and Mrs V, and Im conscious that the mistake  happened 
over a short period  of time. So I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
Ive seen that the investigator gave Mr and Mrs V details of the Information Commissioners  
Office (ICO) and that Mr and Mrs V have confirmed  theyve  already raised  this matter with 
them. Its for the ICO to consider whether data protection law has been breached. 
I understand Mr and Mrs V will be disappointed, but it doesnt change my conclusion  that 
Nationwide have done enough  to put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN69298913Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6929891