K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains MBNA Ltd will not refund some disputed transactions.
background
In February 2019,  Mr Cs two credit  cards were used  to make transactions  which he says he 
did not make  nor authorise.  The first was used in a mobile phone  shop for £2997.  Two 
further attempts  were made but were blocked by MBNA.  It then sent a text message to 
Mr C.
 
A few minutes after the text was sent, Mr Cs other  card was used at a large  technology 
store.  A further attempt  on this card was also blocked.
Mr C did not respond to MBNAs  text message until the following day.  He  said he had been  
working overnight and had not seen the message when it was sent.  And when he 
complained about the transactions, MBNA did not uphold his complaint.  It said the 
transactions had been made  using  Mr Cs genuine  card and PIN.  As Mr C could not provide  
an explanation  as to how anyone was able to access  these, it was holding him liable.
Mr C then brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator did not think  she could ask 
MBNA to do anymore  so the matter was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I will not 
be asking MBNA to refund these transactions.
Generally speaking, MBNA can hold Mr C liable for the transactions  if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he authorised them.   It needs  to show evidence  of 
authentication  but the relevant rules say it must  also show Mr C consented to the 
transactions.
Based on what I have seen, I am satisfied that the transactions were authenticated.   By that, 
I mean  that the genuine card and PIN were  used.  I know Mr C suggests his card was cloned 
because he says he left his cards in his wallet in his locker at work.  But  I dont think  thats  
likely here. This service has never seen a successful cloning of a chip  so Mr Cs argument  
must fail.
So, as I am satisfied that they transactions were  authenticated,  I then need to decide if Mr C 
consented to them. I think he did for the following reasons:
-Mr C told MBNA  he had memorised  his PIN and did not have it written down 
anywhere.  However, he told this service  he had it written down in his wallet along 
with his cards and that he had changed his PINs so that he only had one PIN for all 
his cards.  MBNA  says the PINs  on these two cards  were  never changed  from the 
original randomly generated ones. So his account is inconsistent.
-In order for someone else to have carried out these transactions,  they would have 
needed to have possession on Mr Cs cards from the day before the disputed 
transactions as Mr C says he was still at home  when  they were  carried out. 
Ref: DRN69734892Therefore, there was no opportunity  for anyone from his place of work  to have 
removed the card on the actual day.
-In any event, if someone did remove and replace his cards, it doesnt explain why the 
other cards in the wallet were  left untouched  especially as Mr C told us his PIN was 
in the wallet  with his cards.
I dont think the account  Mr C provides is credible  and so on balance,  I think he either  
made or authorised these transactions himself.   Either  way, I wont  be asking MBNA to 
refund them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6973489