K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained on behalf  of their company, that I will refer to as P, that Aviva 
Insurance Limited has declined their claim for subsidence.
During this complaint Mr and Mrs F have been  represented by their broker.  However for 
ease of reading all references to Mr and Mrs F include the actions of their broker.
background
Mr and Mrs F had a business  P. They took out property insurance with Aviva to insure Ps 
premises. In 2003  Aviva dealt with a claim for subsidence at the premises. As part of this 
claim seven  trees were  either removed or felled and superstructure repairs  were  carried out.
In 2005 a certificate of structural adequacy  was issued  by Aviva for the premises.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs F noticed that cracking  was starting to appear at the property again. 
They directed an expert  to inspect it and the expert  said that the cracking appeared to be in 
the same  place as in the previous claim but further investigation would be necessary to 
determine the cause. 
Mr and Mrs F had switched insurers  during  this time,  however they contacted  Aviva  as they 
felt the new cracks were  related  to the original  claim with it. Aviva responded to say that as 
nine years had passed  it didnt  think it was responsible for the damage and directed Mr and 
Mrs F to the new insurer. 
At this time Mr and Mrs F brought Ps complaint to this service. The investigator here said 
that they should get a further report to try and confirm  if the new damage was related to the 
original claim. 
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs F arranged for an expert to inspect the new damage and 
complete a report. They then submitted this to this service and to Aviva.
Aviva responded to say it hadnt  changed its position. It said that the new report  didnt say 
definitely that the new problem was related to the original  claim. And therefore  the new 
insurer should investigate  the damage. It said if the new insurer  found any links to the 
repairs carried out as part of the original  claim it could  approach  Aviva to discuss a potential 
settlement. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  think this was fair so asked for an investigator to review Ps complaint.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
She said that as the repairs carried out by Aviva had lasted for nine years  without any further 
problems, she was satisfied that it had carried out an effective and long-lasting  repair.  So 
she didnt think Aviva should do anything further and thought it was for the new insurer  to 
investigate.
Since our investigator reviewed the complaint Mr F has very sadly  passed away  so Mrs F 
has taken sole responsibility for the complaint. Mrs F has said she doesnt agree with our 
investigators view and has asked  for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN61397062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has said it doesnt think that it is responsible for the more  recent  claim for subsidence  
and says that it would be more appropriately  dealt with by Ps current insurer.  I have 
considered reports  from the previous claim and those produced  more  recently  to decide if its 
approach is fair and reasonable.
When an insurer takes on a subsidence claim we would expect it to first identify the cause of 
the subsidence and take steps to mitigate that cause.  
From the reports produced at the time of the first claim, I can see that vegetation was 
identified as the main  cause  of the subsidence.  An arborists  report  was completed and 
seven trees were  identified as requiring action. All seven  were either removed or felled. 
Once this was completed Aviva went on to complete repair work on the cracks  on the 
building. So I am satisfied that the cause of subsidence  was identified and appropriate action 
was taken to migrate  this.  
Mrs F has said that no period of monitoring was completed following the removing  and felling 
of the trees.  She said this meant that Aviva couldnt  have been certain that the property  had 
stabilised.
I agree  that we would  usually expect around a six month period of monitoring to be 
completed following  mitigation work. As this claim was made a number  of years ago, Aviva 
dont have all the correspondence relating to it. So it hasnt been possible to determine why 
monitoring wasnt carried out. However  the purpose  of monitoring is to ensure the property is 
stable. And as the repairs lasted for nine years without any visible  problems, I think  it is 
reasonable to assume that the mitigation work  was successful and the property stabilised 
before repairs took place.  Had it not, we would have expected  to see problems arise almost  
immediately after the repair  work.  So I dont think the fact monitoring wasnt carried out is 
relevant here.
As I am satisfied that sufficient mitigation work was carried out I have gone on to consider 
the repair work completed under  the first claim. We would expect the insurer to complete a 
repair that is effective  and long lasting.
Aviva provided a certificate  of structural adequacy  in 2005. And it wasnt until 2014 that 
Mr and Mrs F first reported new problems. 
I have looked  at both reports that were produced about the recent  problems. The most 
notable is the one from 2018  as it is significantly more detailed than the first. It also provides 
photos where it is possible to see the previous repair work. The report  comments that 
although some of the repairs  form the first claim  are completely intact,  the more recent 
damage is in the same  area where some repair work was carried  out previously.
Mrs F says that this shows the repairs werent  adequate, as cracks have begun to show  in 
the same  place these  were carried out previously. She says the property should have been  
underpinned at the time of the first claim,  which is why the new claim should be the 
responsibility of Aviva.
Ref: DRN61397063I have considered this and I dont agree the report shows that the original repairs  were  
inadequate. The original repairs were completed 13 years before the most recent report was 
put together.  And although there  has been further cracking in some of the areas they were 
carried out, this is a significant  amount of time that the repairs  remained intact. And some  
are shown to still be in good condition. So I am satisfied that the repairs that were  carried out 
as part of the claim with Aviva were effective and long lasting.
Although we expect  the insurer to provide an effective and long-lasting  repair to a 
subsidence claim, it isnt the purpose  of an insurance policy to prevent the problem recurring 
in the future. Due to the nature  of subsidence, and the fact it is affected by many  factors, it 
isnt reasonable  to expect that repairs will prevent any future occurrences. So just because  
the subsidence has occurred again, doesnt  mean the original repairs  were  inadequate.
So based  on the reports provided I am satisfied that the new cracks that have appeared at 
Ps premises arent a result of poor repairs on the previous claim. For that reason I think it is 
fair and reasonable that Aviva have said it isnt its responsibility to deal with this claim and it 
would be better investigated by the new insurer. Aviva has further said that if, as part of the 
new insurers investigations, it is decided that Aviva share some responsibility  for the claim 
then it would speak  to the insurer  about  a possible contribution. And I think  this is a fair 
approach. So for that reason I wont ask Aviva to do anything  differently here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I wont require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F on behalf of 
P to accept  or reject  my decision before 19 December 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6139706