K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in 2006.
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage was taken with Halifax  in March  2006.  A policy  was set up at that 
time, but no payments were made and it was cancelled in May 2006. 
A second policy was set up and it started in June 2006. The policy  was sold as part of a 
packaged protection policy called  a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan. 
This protection plan included a PPI policy  which covered consumers for accident,  sickness 
and unemployment.  The protection  plan also had separate life cover and critical illness cover 
available.
Mr and Mrs E only took out PPI and not the life and critical illness cover.  
Mr and Mrs E say they were mis-sold PPI. Halifax thought  the PPI hadnt  been mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.  
March 2006 policy
As no premiums were ever paid for the first policy taken in March 2006  and it was cancelled, 
I havent looked at the sale of this policy or what happened.  And this is because there hasnt 
been any detriment  to Mr and Mrs E. Because no premiums were paid, they havent lost out 
as a result  of anything  Halifax  possibly did wrong.
  
June 2006 policy
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I will look at whether  the policy was presented as optional and whether Mr and Mrs E 
would have been reasonably aware  that they had a choice about taking the PPI.
Mr and Mrs E say they didn't feel in a position to say no to the PPI as they were first time 
buyers and they were  told by Halifax that they had to protect  their mortgage repayments.
Ref: DRN64181592Its hard for me to know exactly what was said during the meeting when the policy was sold. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E have tried to provide  the best recollection they have. And I 
would like to assure  them  that I have taken  their comments into consideration.  
But I have to be persuaded  that it was more  likely  than not that they were pressured  into 
taking the policy.  As Halifax advised them to take out the policy,  I think  its just as likely they 
were told it would be beneficial to take out the policy, rather than they had to. And looking at 
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances, I dont think that would have been unsuitable advice. 
I havent seen  enough in this case to make me to decide Mr and Mrs Es version of events is 
what more than likely happened. 
From what  I know about Halifaxs sales process at the time and from the paperwork and 
records Ive seen, including the Demands and Needs  statement and the TMPP  
Acceptance Terms for Mr and Mrs E, I think Mr and Mrs E were given a choice. The 
documents show Halifax had a detailed  discussion with Mr and Mrs E about their insurance  
needs during which  its adviser made  recommendations  and Mr and Mrs E agreed  to the 
level of cover they wanted. 
All of this leads me to think Mr and Mrs E were asked about  their circumstances, thought 
about Halifaxs advice  and decided on the types and amounts of cover  they took out. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that taking any part of the TMPP policy  was a condition  of 
getting the mortgage. I also have  to bear in mind that Mr and Mrs E had already had a PPI 
policy set up a few months earlier, which they cancelled, and their mortgage  was, at this 
point, already in place.  So Mr and Mrs E were aware of what  PPI policies were  and that they 
could have their mortgage  without taking  the PPI.
As explained, Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E. I can see that a detailed 
assessment of Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  was undertaken by the adviser. All of 
Mr and Mrs Es details  around their personal circumstances such as their medical, 
employment and income details  were  taken into consideration. And from this the adviser 
recommended Mr and Mrs E take PPI.
From the information detailed within  the advisers assessment and from the information 
Mr and Mrs E have  given us about  their circumstances, it seems to have been right for them 
at the time. 
I say this because  a mortgage is a large,  long term financial commitment.  If repayments  
arent met there can be serious  consequences  and borrowers can stand to lose their home.
Mr E has told us he received at least six months  full sick pay from his employer. And Mrs E 
says she received two months full pay followed by two months  half pay from her employer. 
But I think they would have struggled to meet their repayments if either of them was unable  
to work for a lengthy  period. 
The PPI would have  covered the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  for each claim if 
either Mr or Mrs E were  unable to work because of an accident, sickness or if they lost their 
jobs. So, all things considered, I think it provided  a useful benefit. And I cant  say that the 
advisers recommendation  for PPI was unsuitable.   
Mr and Mrs E also said they had some savings  they could have used to meet their 
repayments. They also say their family could have helped if needed.
Ref: DRN64181593I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E had some savings,  but having  the insurance  meant  they 
wouldnt have had to use their savings. And whilst  I dont  doubt that Mr and Mrs Es families 
would have wanted to help them in a time of need,  I have to consider that peoples  
circumstances can and do change  over time. Mr and Mrs Es families might  not have been  in 
a position to help when  needed. Insurance is there to protect against the unforeseen and 
having it in place meant that Mr and Mrs E wouldnt have needed to rely on their families.
I cant be sure how clearly  the cost of the PPI policy  was explained  by the adviser.  But the 
cost was detailed  on both the Demands  and Needs statement and the TMPP  Acceptance 
Terms. These documents clearly set out the monthly cost of the PPI. So, overall I think 
Mr and Mrs E would have been  aware how much the policy  cost per month.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the PPI was unaffordable or unsuitable in 
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances. And even if everything had been explained clearly, I think  its 
likely that they still would  have bought it. I say this because it looks  like the policy  could have 
been useful to them as I have explained above.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs E 
dont appear to have  been  affected by any of those things, so I dont think  more information 
about this would have changed their minds and stopped  them from taking out the policy.
All things  considered, based on the information  I have regarding  the sale, the PPI policy and 
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
what else have I considered
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs E some of the commission  
they paid back. Mr and Mrs E feel very strongly that they should be entitled  to a refund of 
some of the commission they paid. Ive carefully  considered their submissions  on this point. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
Broadly summarised the FCA said that if a lender got a high level of commission and profit  
share from the PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the 
consumer, then that could create an unfair  relationship between the parties.  So to put that 
right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
within section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And there are certain types  of credit 
agreements that the rules  and section 140A dont apply to, which means  not all consumers 
will get some  of the commission and profit share they paid back. Ill explain what  this means 
in Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ref: DRN64181594what this means for Mr and Mrs E.
Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act states  that certain credit agreements  are exempt 
and a court  cant make  an order in relation to unfair relationships. The FCAs rules  mirror  
this. A regulated  mortgage contract is one such agreement that isnt covered by the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act. This is because  on 31st October 2004 the 
regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were  no longer covered by the 
Consumer Credit Act.
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage was taken out in 2006 and it was a regulated  mortgage.  So the 
unfair relationship provisions of the Consumer  Credit  Act and the FCAs rules  and guidance  
on failure to disclose commission dont apply.
It follows that Halifax doesnt need  to refund any of the commission or profit share  
Mr and Mrs E paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold.
And Bank of Scotland plc doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs E paid 
for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6418159