K821x#15complaint
Mr J took out a Total Mortgage  Protection  plan with a mortgage in 2001. The plan included 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover (PPI), as well as life and critical illness  cover. 
Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. As Mr J has only 
complained about the sale of the PPI, thats  all I have looked  into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr J didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take 
it out. From what Mr J said when he first referred his complaint  to us, it seems  he 
remembers a discussion about PPI and agreeing to take it out. Theres  a section on the 
mortgage application form that hes signed  to confirm he wanted it.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr J so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Although Mr Js told us he would have received 
some sick pay from his employer, the PPI would pay out on top of this and for longer. I 
think he would have  found it useful if hed not been able to work. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said - including what  hes said about never missing a 
payment or needing to make  a claim.  But this point doesnt change  my decision. Like with 
any insurance, PPI is to protect the unexpected. Just because  Mr J hasnt needed to make  a 
claim, doesnt mean it wouldnt have been  useful  if he had lost his job or been off work for a 
long time because of illness or an accident.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr J paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr J back  some  of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr J now 
Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN65250562my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6525056