K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that  when he decided to stop his application for online access  to his 
pension plan  Scottish Equitable Plc (Scottish Equitable) continued to use his email  
address for communication  purposes, including passing it to a third party.  As a result he 
thinks its breached General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
background
Mr C holds a stakeholder pension plan with Scottish Equitable.  In August 2018 he received a 
letter from it inviting him to set up an online account  for his pension  that would give him 
access to his statements  as well as a number of other functions. He applied  to set up the 
online account but when he reviewed the terms and conditions  at the end of the application 
 he decided he didnt  want to go through with the process. 
Mr C then contacted  Scottish Equitable to confirm  that he wanted  to continue receiving 
paper statements,  but he also said that his account had already been set up  despite  him 
having stopped the process and he believed that was wrong and that the online set up 
process was flawed 
Scottish Equitable  looked into Mr Cs queries  but during that time it communicated  with him 
by email which Mr C said he hadnt given permission for it to do. In addition Mr C received a 
request from a third party company to complete a survey  about his experience with Scottish 
Equitable. Mr C said he hadnt given permission for this approach  either and thought that 
Scottish Equitable  had breached his data protection rights. 
Scottish Equitable  responded  and said it didnt think it had done anything  wrong.  It said it 
had deleted Mr Cs online account as requested and had confirmed that he would continue 
to receive annual paper statements going forward. Scottish Equitable also explained that it 
used a third party company  to conduct surveys  for it on a legitimate basis  under  GDPR, 
and didnt need to seek Mr Cs consent to be able to do this. 
But Mr C remained  unhappy as he believed that when he stopped his online  application all 
records of it should  have been  deleted. Instead he said Scottish Equitable had passed  his 
email address to various departments  including the third party company  without his 
consent. So he referred his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
Scottish Equitable  had carried  out Mr Cs instruction to delete his online profile as requested 
and she thought because Mr C gave his consent  to use his email address in his original 
pension application  that meant Scottish  Equitable had acted reasonably  by contacting  him in 
that way. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said it was only possible to stop an application for online access  at the 
very end of the process,  when  the account was already opened and personal data had been 
shared with other parties.   He thought  that process  was wrong  and breached GDPR. So as 
no resolution could  be found the complaint had been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ref: DRN60134062Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive come to the same  conclusion as 
the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.  
Mr C has said that following the setting up of online access  to his pension  statements  
which he didnt complete, Scottish  Equitable  began  to communicate with him via email.  This 
also extended to him being contacted  by a third party.  So he thinks his online ID was still 
live until he contacted  Scottish Equitable and asked for it to be deleted. And he says his 
personal information was being used by Scottish Equitable without his consent. But Ive seen 
that he provided Scottish Equitable with his email address when he first applied  for the 
pension plan in 2011, so theres no evidence to show that Scottish  Equitable was only able 
to communicate  with him in this way following his on line access  application. Hed already 
given that consent previously. 
And Ive seen that the privacy notice  from the same  application  form said we may share 
your information with: other companies in the AEGON group, who may let me know  about 
their new products or services  and the declaration and consent  section of the form said 
unless I have ticked the appropriate box below to object, by signing this form I am 
consenting to receive  marketing  messages from the AEGON group of companies  by 
email/other forms of electronic communication or by mail/phone. The boxes were unticked.
So its clear that Mr C had already given consent  to Scottish Equitable and any third parties  
that were part of the same group to contact him by email, so I dont  think  Scottish Equitable  
has done anything  wrong by communicating  with him in this way. Im unable  to determine 
exactly what information was derived  from the aborted application Mr C made, or if that 
information was shared.  Scottish Equitable says its wasnt. But in any case its not our role 
to decide if a business has breached data protection  laws. Thats for the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO) to decide. What we can consider is the impact  of whats  
happened to Mr C as a result of any possible  breach.
Ive then considered  whether Scottish  Equitable made any mistakes  in the application 
process to create online access  (and then stopping that process) and, if so  the impact this 
may have  had on Mr C. Its not in dispute  that Mr C no longer has an online ID. He says the 
ID should have  been deleted as soon as he stopped his application but he was required to 
contact Scottish Equitable  and go through quite a lengthy process  to get it deleted. And I can 
see that Scottish Equitable confirmed that had been  done but not straight away. But during 
that time theres no evidence that Mr Cs account was compromised  or that he didnt receive  
any information he may have requested. 
I understand Mr Cs wider concerns that his personal information  may have been shared 
without his consent, and Ive carefully  considered the points he raised regarding the distress 
and inconvenience  this matter has caused  him. I know  Mr C thinks  Scottish  Equitables 
online access process is flawed and he has his own thoughts  as to how he believes the 
process should work. 
But that doesnt mean that Scottish  Equitable  has made  a mistake in the way it has set up 
the process. Thats a business decision that its free to make  and we wouldnt normally 
interfere in that decision. What I would expect is for it to explain its reasoning to Mr C and to 
ensure that he wasnt negatively  impacted by that decision. And I think it did that in its 
responses to him where it explained  that:
It was looking into updating  its GDPR.
Ref: DRN60134063Although an ID was created it was disabled until the terms and conditions  were 
accepted. In Mr Cs case they werent  accepted.
The information wasnt  sent to a third party. The third party  already held Mr Cs 
details from an earlier application  form and could have sent him a survey request 
about a different enquiry.
As Ive already  said, its a matter for the ICO to determine if a data protection breach has 
occurred here, but Im satisfied that Scottish  Equitable has explained  its process and I dont 
think Mr C has been impacted to the extent that the award of a compensatory  payment is 
warranted.  
So, while Ive some sympathy for Mr Cs position  here  whereby he assumed his details 
had been deleted but they seemed to be used for an approach  by a third party, I think 
Scottish Equitable  had made it clear  previously how they might  use Mr Cs personal 
information and already  had his email address on its records.  So while  I appreciate that Mr C 
may have  been  caused distress during the process,  I dont think this has been caused by 
any errors made by Scottish Equitable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Scottish Equitable Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6013406