K822xComplaint
Mr O is unhappy with the response  from Clydesdale Financial Service  Limited,  (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance). Following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
Mr O was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as C, that supplied  and installed solar 
panel systems. Following  a meeting,  Mr O agreed  to enter into a contract  with C for it to 
supply and install a solar panel  system costing about £10,000.  To fund this Mr O also agreed 
to enter  into a 10 year fixed  sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner  Finance (BPF).
Mr O made  a claim under section 75 (s75)  of the CCA via his representative. The 
representative said that C had told Mr O that the solar panels would be self-funded  and that 
the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income 
and any savings hed make by using the electricity generated by the solar panels  rather  than 
buying it from his energy  provider. But that hadnt happened. Instead, his monthly loan 
repayments had been much higher  than the income and any savings  hed made.
BPF wrote back to Mr O and said that it was investigating his complaint. When  he hadnt 
received a final response letter, Mr Os representative referred the complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, BPF made  an offer of compensation to resolve Mr Os complaint. 
It said it had calculated out the potential  income  and savings to Mr O, from the solar panels, 
over the term of the loan. It had then restructured the loan so that he would pay no more 
than this over the original  10 year loan term. This calculation  would  mean that Mr O had 
been paying more each  month than he should have been. And so, BPF offered Mr O the 
following options as to how his overpayments could be used:
(a)the overpayments are used to pay off the outstanding  loan balance  and the excess  of 
around £1,000  would be paid to him,
(b)the overpayments are returned  to Mr O and he continues  to pay his current  monthly 
loan payment resulting in his loan finishing  early,  or;
(c)the overpayments are returned  to Mr O and he pays  a new, lower  monthly loan 
payment until the end of his loan term.   
BPF also offered  to pay him £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
One of our investigators  reviewed the offer and felt it was fair. Mr O, via his representative 
didnt agree. He said he had moved home and was therefore not receiving any benefits  from 
the solar panels.  Therefore, he said the benefits  from the solar panels  should only be 
calculated up to the point he moved.
BPF didnt  agree. It said that under s75 it was liable  for any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by C. And that the misrepresentation was that the solar panels  would be self-
funded and come  at no additional  cost to Mr O rather than he only had to pay for the solar 
panels whilst  he owned the property they were installed on.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me to review.
Ref: DRN69739612My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says that he was approached by C and during a sales meeting was told that the solar  
panels would be entirely self-financing. As neither  BPF nor Mr O dispute  that the benefits of 
the solar panels  were  misrepresented  this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair 
compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA.  S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by an agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr O paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan agreement,  BPF agrees that s75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr O could claim against  BPF  the creditor  for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by C in the same  way he could  have against  C, 
the supplier. So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding what  is fair in the circumstances 
of this case.
S56 is also relevant.  This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr O and C, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted  by C as an agent of BPF.
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr O back in the position he 
wouldve been in if there had been  no misrepresentation. However, Mr O has moved home  
so I dont think it would be fair or proportionate  to require the removal of the solar  panels 
from his previous home, notwithstanding the impracticality  of this. Rather, I think the fair 
outcome here is to put him in a position where the solar panels are self-funding over the 
original term of the loan.
Ive carefully considered  the methodology BPF has submitted to this service to calculate the 
total benefits of the solar system. This methodology is based on the actual performance and 
estimated future performance of Mr Os solar panel  system.
BPF has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Os solar 
panels, it will use a number of assumptions. These  include using a self-consumption  rate of 
Ref: DRN6973961337%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr Os solar panels  that he is expected  
to use rather than buying electricity from his energy  provider.
Self-consumption is impacted by the period  of time that someone is in their home and able to 
use, or self-consume,  the electricity their solar panels are generating.  The rate that was paid 
by Mr Os energy provider was 50%, the rate that had been set by the government.  This 
means that Mr O wouldve been  paid, by way of his FIT income,  for 50% of the electricity  the 
solar panel  system generated. It is self-evident that determining an exact  figure over the 
period of the loan is difficult. My role is to determine  fair compensation and arrive at an 
outcome that is fair and reasonable overall.  And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact  
science.
Im satisfied that using  a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair and reasonable in this case. Im 
of the opinion that it takes into account changing  consumer occupancy  habits over the 
lifetime of the solar  panels.
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by BPF, including  electricity price  inflation, 
the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that these 
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual  
average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Mr O has explained that he moved home in April 2018. The solar panels,  and any benefits 
that he would receive  from them, were  signed over to the new homeowner. Therefore, he 
said the fair offer would be that he only pays the equivalent of the benefits  he would receive 
up until when he moved home, around £2,700.
Ive thought carefully on this point. Under s75, BPF is liable for any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract made  by C. Therefore,  I need  to be satisfied that Mr O was led to believe, 
or there was a term/ implied  term in his contract, that he would only have to pay his loan for 
the time he resided at the property where the solar panels were installed, and this 
information contributed  to his decision to buy the panels.
Ive reviewed all the submissions made by Mr O and his representative, including the initial,  
detailed complaint letter to BPF. Mr O and his representative have been consistent  
throughout the complaint  that the misrepresentation that induced him to enter into the 
contract was that the solar panels would be entirely  self-financing. There isnt anything which 
suggests that Mr O was led to believe that he would only be responsible for paying the loan 
whilst he resided at the property that the solar panel system had been installed at. Or that a 
potential move was discussed  at that point. And again, within the contract  there isnt a term 
or an implied  term to suggest this.
As Im not persuaded there was a misrepresentation, I cant conclude that C led Mr O to 
believe he would only have to pay his loan for the period of time he resided at the property 
with the solar panels or any breach of contract  has occurred, Im satisfied that BPF offer to 
make the panels  self-funding over the term of the loan is fair.
Whilst I understand that my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr O, Im satisfied 
that the offer put forward by BPF,  and the options  available to him on how hed like his 
overpayments to be used  is fair. For clarity, the three options available  to Mr O are:
Ref: DRN69739614(a)the overpayments are used to pay off the outstanding  loan balance  and the excess  of 
around £1,000  would be paid to him,
(b)the overpayments are returned  to Mr O and he continues  to pay his current  monthly 
loan payment resulting in his loan finishing  early,  or;
(c)the overpayments are returned  to Mr O and he pays  a new, lower  monthly loan 
payment until the end of his loan term.   
If Mr O accepts my decision, he should  indicate  on the acceptance form which  option he 
would like.
I have no doubt  that this situation has caused Mr O some trouble and upset and 
consequently Ill make an award  of £100  to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited  must:
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr O from the solar panels  over the 10 
year loan term and rework it so that he pays no more than this. Where  possible, it 
should use Mr Os electricity  bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  from the date of the overpayment  to the 
date of the settlement,
allow Mr O to choose, from the three options  described above, how hed like his 
overpayments to be used, and;
pay Mr O £100  for the trouble and upset  caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr O how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr O a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN6973961