K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains Assurant General Insurance Limited has not accepted a claim for her lost 
phone. 
background
Miss N has mobile phone insurance  through her bank account,  the insurer is Assurant. 
Miss N told Assurant she lost her phone on 31 December 2018 and she tried to make a 
claim on her policy.
To validate the claim Assurant asked Miss N to put her phone  in lost mode through  her Find 
my Phone application  as this is one of the steps  it asks customers to do when claiming for 
a lost device.  But Miss N says her phone isnt visible in her iCloud account  so she cant put 
it in lost mode as requested. So, Assurant did not accept her claim.
In its response to her complaint Assurant  said it was entitled to ask for information  to validate 
a claim.  Miss N says she cant provide the information Assurant has asked for, but she feels 
it is not fair her claim has been denied. So, she complained to us. Our investigator thought it 
was reasonable  of Assurant to ask for this information in order to validate  the claim and as 
Miss N hasnt supplied  it this complaint wasnt upheld.  Miss N didnt agree so its come to me 
to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld,  Ill explain why. 
I understand that Miss N feels she has waited a long time and now wants her complaint 
resolved by Assurant  accepting  her claim.  But I think its reasonable for Assurant to ask for 
some evidence to satisfy itself the claim is valid. This is quite usual with insurance  claims of 
any kind. And this requirement  is also reflected in the terms and conditions of Miss Ns 
policy.
Step three in the How to make a claim section  of the terms and conditions  of the claims 
process explains that someone  making  a claim for loss or theft of their phone may need  to 
activate any location finder app or software  if the device has this functionality.  It also 
states that the insurers may ask for additional  information  to assess any claims. 
In addition, the terms and conditions also state that this policy covers devices owned by the 
account holder  or one of their family members who lives at the same  address. And family 
member is defined under this policy as the spouse/partner of the account holder, or their 
child under  the age of 18 or up to 23 if in full-time education. 
Assurant says it asked  Miss N to put her phone in lost mode  to show that the device  belongs  
to her, as well as it being a step to try and locate its whereabouts. Miss N doesnt dispute 
that Find my iPhone was set up on the phone. And Assurant has provided  screen  shots of 
its internal system to show that the Find my iPhone application is active  on the phone.  This 
means it is linked  to an iCloud account.
Ref: DRN68263942The phone could  only be linked to one iCloud account at a time. As it isnt linked to Miss Ns 
account now, it suggests the phone  had either  never been  linked to her account,  or it had 
once been linked to her account, but its been removed and its now linked to someone 
elses account. The only way to remove a phone from Miss Ns iCloud is for someone to log 
in using her details, which presumably only she knows  (or someone she told). As Miss N 
says she hasnt removed  the phone from her iCloud, the only explanation is that it was never  
linked. So, I dont think Miss N has shown the phone  belonged to her, or a family member 
under the terms  of the policy. 
Ive thought about what Miss N has said and Ive also considered all the other evidence 
available. As Ive said above, I think what  Assurant  has asked for is reasonable for it to 
validate Miss Ns claim. And while I can see that Miss N has taken  steps to try to comply with 
this requirement, I havent seen  that shes been able to provide  enough  evidence  to show  
that the phone belonged to her - or a family  member  as set out in the policy.
So, it follows  then that I dont think this complaint should be upheld,  and I dont  think 
Assurant need  to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint, 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6826394