K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt process  his claims under his 
travel policy.
background
Mr K made two claims under his travel  policy. One claim was in August 2018, where he had 
a medical problem and had to deplane in the USA, and get another  flight home. He claimed 
the cost of the medical treatment and the cost of his flight home. UKI provided its final 
response on this one on 11 September 2018,  paying him £100 compensation. Mr K later 
complained in January 2019  that his medical treatment costs incurred the USA werent paid. 
UKI agreed  it had failed  to pay them so it paid those  costs and paid Mr K £50 compensation 
for its delay  by another final response  letter of 9 March 2019.  
Mr K made a second  claim in January 2019 because he said his baggage was delayed  on 
another trip. UKI said Mr K didnt provide all the documents from his airline that it required to 
process this claim. However, it agreed it delayed in dealing with his claim and paid him £75 
compensation.
Mr K remained dissatisfied and brought his complaints to us. The investigator said we 
couldnt look at the one concerning the issues in August 2018 and the cost of his other flight  
back to the UK. This is because Mr K didnt bring that complaint to us within six months of 
the date of UKIs final response letter and UKI didnt consent to us dealing  with it outside of 
the time limit.
However, dealing  with the medical costs Mr K incurred at that time. As UKI later paid that 
and paid him compensation for its delay, she didnt think UKI had to do anything more.  She 
noted there was no evidence  from Mr K as to how it impacted  his credit score, as he 
claimed.
Dealing with the claim for delayed baggage,  she noted that UKI hadnt received all the 
documents it required under its policy to progress this claim so she didnt  think  it had to pay 
it. However, she noted it UKI thoughts  its service concerning this claim was poor and that it 
paid Mr K £75 compensation, so she didnt think it had to pay him anything more.
Mr K remained dissatisfied so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
The only issue I can deal with concerning Mr Ks fist claim in August 2018 is the delay 
aspect of UKI paying for his medical treatment after he had to deplane in the USA. 
UKI acknowledged it delayed in paying  these medical expenses  to the medical  provider, and 
paid Mr K £50 compensation for its delay. Mr K claimed this delay  affected  his credit score. 
However, he declined  to provide evidence of that. In those circumstances and without any 
evidence to back up Mr Ks contention  it affected  his credit score, its not fair or reasonable 
Ref: DRN66929112for me to ask UKI to pay him any further  compensation. I note in any event that UKI paid a 
further £100 compensation for the way one of its advisors spoke to Mr K in August 2018.
As regards  Mr Ks claim  for his lost baggage in January  2019,  I consider UKI explained to Mr 
K what the policy requirements were for this claim to be processed.  The evidence shows  UKI 
didnt receive all the required documents from Mr K in order  to process this claim fully. Mr K 
explained he had difficulty in making contact  with the airline but I cant  hold UKI responsible  
for that as that would be unreasonable. 
UKI has shown me it hasnt received the required property irregularity report, which  Mr K had 
to get from his airline. Whilst Mr K wanted  UKI to confirm this in writing, I dont consider it 
had to do this as its clearly laid out in the policy  conditions, as more fully detailed  by the 
investigator. Consequently,  I dont consider UKI has done anything wrong in not yet 
processing this claim for Mr K. 
UKI acknowledged however, it should have  given Mr K a better  level of service  over this. It 
paid Mr K £75 for its failing which I consider  reasonable.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6692911