K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the poor service  National  Westminster Bank Plc has given  him over 
his loan account.
background 
In November 2018 Mr B made two lump  sum payments towards his loan. NatWest didnt tell 
him what the new payments would be and so he had to estimate how much he had to pay 
manually. This resulted  in his loan account  going  into arrears. Hes also concerned that 
NatWest wouldnt set up a new direct debit. And it gave his wife confidential information  
about his financial  business.
NatWest said its service  was not one it expected  its customers  to receive.  It said it would 
realign Mr Bs personal loan and keep him updated.  But it couldnt reset the direct debit 
because itd been cancelled more than 60 days  previously. So its system  would  
automatically reject it. But its system  would  accept payment by standing  order.  It also said 
that according to its terms and conditions Mr B shouldve told it if he wanted the loan 
repayments reduced. Otherwise it would be the term of the loan that would be reduced. It 
refunded any interest that had built up on the arrears. But it said it couldnt comment  on 
information given  to his wife without  her permission.
Mr B said this wasnt good enough  because  he was worried that if he made any more lump 
sum payments he would have the same  problem of not knowing what his new monthly 
repayments would be. And he said its explanation  didnt make sense because NatWest  had 
reduced his monthly  repayments in the past.
NatWest said it cancelled  the direct debit on 30 April 2018  when Mr B contacted it due to 
financial difficulties. It accepted a six month forbearance plan to give him some  breathing  
space. He wasnt paying arrears but was paying reduced monthly repayments. The lump 
sums he paid in November 2018 reduced  the arrears and the outstanding balance.
Since this Service became involved NatWest offered Mr B £75 because it acknowledged  that 
it hadnt responded to his complaint appropriately. And the adjudicator thought this was a 
reasonable offer. Particularly as itd realigned his loan and lowered his payments, set up a 
standing order and refunded interest.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this. He said that in the past NatWest automatically reduced  his 
monthly payments.  So the terms and conditions didnt reflect the reality  of what is 
happening.  Hes not happy  with a standing order as this means  his monthly  payments  wont 
change. And he didnt  think  the offer reflected the poor service and stress. Hes asked for 
written confirmation of his new payments on five occasions but still hasnt received this.
The adjudicator went back to NatWest who responded  saying that in the past Mr Bs account 
was being manually amended due to missed  repayments and arrears on his account. And in 
2018 a formal six month arrangement was made  with its Financial Assistance team.  At the 
end of that time Mr B paid in a large  amount to take the account out of arrears so it said it 
didnt have any reason to contact him.
Ref: DRN61998642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator explained  to Mr B, NatWests terms and conditions say that overpayments 
dont reduce monthly payments unless the consumer makes  that request. So I agree that it 
didnt do anything wrong when it didnt automatically  reduce Mr Bs payments  after he paid in 
two large lump sums.  NatWest said these lump  sums cleared his arrears  and reduced the 
outstanding balance considerably which brought the account within the terms of the loan 
agreement. In those circumstances it wouldve expected  him to revert to the original monthly 
repayments. So I dont  think it did anything wrong when it didnt contact  him. Mr B paid what  
he thought the new monthly payment would be but that caused arrears  to build up. When  
NatWest understood  what Mr B was trying to do it re-aligned the loan and refunded him the 
interest. I think  thats fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr B thinks NatWest has been inconsistent because  he says its reduced his 
payments automatically  in the past. Which he says means his loan was working  differently  to 
NatWests terms  and conditions. So he asks if the loan is enforceable. But I can see that 
when NatWest reduced his repayments in the past it was because  it was manually 
monitoring his account. And it was in communication with him about this. So I dont think 
there is any inconsistency with the terms and conditions. And its not for me to say whether 
the loan is enforceable. Thats a matter for a court of law.
The adjudicator told Mr B that if he still wasnt happy  with his opinion,  his complaint would be 
referred to an ombudsman. Mr B responded by saying this Service was missing  the point: he 
didnt ask NatWest  to lower his payments.  So the fact that it did this is outside the terms and 
conditions of the loan.
But when he first complained to NatWest Mr B said he was unhappy that after hed made the 
lump sum payments NatWest didnt tell him what the new reduced monthly repayments 
would be so he had to make an estimate. In response to his complaint NatWest  realigned  his 
loan and reduced his monthly repayments.  I cant see it acted against his instructions. 
NatWest says if he doesnt want to make  reduced repayments it can arrange for the original 
repayments to be reinstated.
The other issue is the inability of NatWest  to set up a direct debit instead of a standing order. 
NatWest has explained  that as part of the forbearance plan the direct debit was cancelled  in 
April 2018 and cant be reinstated because  of the passage of time. It said its system wouldnt 
let it do that. So the only repayment  method it can offer him is a standing  order. 
Mr B is concerned that if he makes any more large  payments a standing order wont  take 
that into account in reducing the monthly  repayments. But in light of the terms and 
conditions, even if he had a direct debit NatWest  wouldnt  automatically reduce those 
payments unless he contacted it. So in that respect  a standing order will have  the same 
effect as a direct debit.  If Mr B wants to retain the original repayments he doesnt  need to do 
anything. If he wants  them  to be reduced  he will need to contact NatWest. In any event this 
Service cant tell NatWest  to change its systems and processes. Thats  the role of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Ref: DRN61998643Mr B told us he still doesnt have it in writing what his new loan repayments  are. NatWest  
said itd sent him a text message on 14 February  2019 telling him about the new monthly 
repayments. And it sent him a letter  through  the postal system on 17 June 2019. The 
adjudicator also sent Mr B a copy of the letter. I cant  explain why Mr B hasnt received any 
of these. But whatever  the reason Im satisfied NatWest has sent him the details hes asked 
for.
Mr B also wants  an explanation as to why his complaint wasnt  registered correctly. I cant 
tell NatWest how it should deal with and handle complaints. Its complaint handling is not, 
under our rules, what is called a regulated activity. If Mr B wants to take his concerns about  
NatWests complaint handling  procedures  further  he will need to refer his concerns to the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
I cant comment on any information  NatWest  may have given Mr Bs wife. Its for the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) to decide  if theres been a breach of the Data  
Protection Act which means  I cant make a finding on that point. So Mr  Ss concerns in this 
respect are better directed to the ICO. 
my final decision
My decision  is that to put matters right NatWest  should pay Mr B £75 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6199864