K822xcomplaint
Mr L is unhappy about the way Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) handled the transfer of 
his investment accounts to a new provider.
background 
Mr L held a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP), investment ISA and an International 
Trading Account (ITA) linked to a MarketMaster account with Barclays.
In December 2016 and June 2017,  Barclays wrote to inform Mr L about the launch of its new 
investment platform,  Smart Investor. It said that Mr Ls accounts would be migrated  to its 
Smart Investor  platform  in August 2017. And there was a new fee structure, as well as a new 
platform.
Mr L also received a separate letter from Barclays relating specifically  to his ITA. This letter 
said that Barclays would no longer  be offering an international  trading service  and 
arrangements had been made for another company to take over his ITA.
Mr L was unhappy  with the new Smart Investor  fee structure. So he decided  to move all his 
accounts. He informed Barclays of this in July 2017. Mr L initially started the process  of 
transferring his investments to one provider,  then later changed to a company Ill refer to 
as T. 
Mr Ls transfers didnt  take place before the migration to Smart  Investor.  There  were delays. 
In September  2017, Mr L complained to Barclays. In November 2017, Barclays  apologised 
for the delays (including the delay  in replying to his complaint)  and paid Mr L £200  for the 
inconvenience. They later paid him a further  £50. 
By April 2018, Mr Ls SIPP transfer still wasnt complete   his Barclays  SIPP  still held a cash  
balance of over £3000.  In June 2018, Mr L asked us to look into things. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2019, upholding some parts of Mr Ls complaint. 
In summary,  I said:
It was clear that Barclays hadnt provided  Mr L with a good service.  Barclays had 
acknowledged and apologised for this. 
I didnt think there  were any tax implications  for Mr L as the SIPP and ISA were  
transferred in specie.  
I hadnt seen  any evidence that any amounts had gone  missing. Or that any fees had 
been charged during the protracted  period of the transfers.  
I invited Mr L to let me know if he still felt he hadnt had enough information to 
reconcile all the transfers. 
I was minded to think Barclays had acted reasonably in donating  the £3.62 
outstanding to charity. I said this because Mr L wanted his accounts closed. Barclays  
actions brought  the accounts  to nil so it could draw  a line under things. 
To compensate Mr L, I said Barclays should provide comprehensive statements for all Mr Ls 
accounts from the beginning of July onwards,  if he still needed these. These should include 
closing statements to confirm that all accounts are now closed.  
Ref: DRN65146692I was also minded to direct Barclays to pay Mr L an additional £200  to cover the distress and 
trouble it has caused. In saying this, I recognised that Mr L had told us he wasnt  seeking 
financial compensation, just to have things put right. But it was still my view that he had been 
greatly inconvenienced by having to spend  months  emailing and phoning Barclays  to try and 
sort out the transfers
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision,  but Mr L didnt. He made the following points:
Id said he hadnt suffered  a financial loss. But Barclays had donated some  of his 
balances to charity. 
Hed wanted all his balances transferred  before the accounts were closed and hed 
said so consistently.  
Similarly, Id said he hadnt  suffered a tax loss  but he had on the balances donated 
to charity. 
Mr L said hed provided  evidence of having  paid a £37.50 charge. So my conclusion 
that no fees had been  charged was clearly wrong. 
My provisional conclusions were inconsistent  with the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA)s Principle 6 and with rule COBS 2.1.1R from its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook. 
By finding Barclays actions reasonable, I was affording  Mr L fewer rights than 
customers have in relation to dormant balances.
He still hadnt  received  sufficiently detailed transactional statements. But he was 
satisfied that the additional £200  I had proposed would cover any unidentified 
charges. So further statements were unnecessary. 
He reiterated  that this should have been a routine transfer  completed  with ease. I 
hadnt provided any reasons why Barclays shouldnt  have been  expected  to complete 
it as instructed. 
Id described him as being left frustrated and uncertain whether hes been financial  
disadvantaged or not. He was absolutely certain  that he had been  disadvantaged.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
provisional view.  So Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill address Mr Ls points below. 
First, both sides agree that Barclays didnt  provide  an acceptable level of service in the case  
of Mr Ls transfer. Mr L is right that this should be a routine matter. Unfortunately, in this 
case, the introduction of the new platform didnt go smoothly and ultimately caused the 
delays Mr L suffered. Its not my role to provide  an explanation for how this happened. All I 
can do is decide whether Barclays did something  wrong and what would be fair to put things 
right. 
Mr L is also correct that Barclays action in donating his residual  balances  to charity  has 
caused him a financial  loss of £3.62. And that hes also lost the tax shelter  for this sum. But I 
think this should  be seen in the context of the financial  gain of £450 he will have  made in the 
form of compensation  paid. 
I havent changed my provisional view on the sum donated to charity. Mr L has referred to 
the FCAs Principle  6 a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly  and COBS  2.1.1, which sets out a similar principle. Mr L feels  very strongly that 
the donation wasnt in his best interests. But I disagree. Mr Ls transfer had taken  months 
Ref: DRN65146693and Barclays had clearly  been unable to transfer  everything quickly.  Barclays  was aware of 
his frustration and wanted to bring  things swiftly to a finish. Their action enabled the 
accounts to be closed and the saga to be brought to an end. Given the events up until that 
point, I think they took this action with due regard to their clients  best interests. 
Next Ill deal with the matter of the £37.50 charge. I can see that this amount was debited  
from Mr Ls SIPP on 23 April 2018, but it was also recredited the same day. This then 
coincided with the transfer out of his SIPP  balance.  Because the events coincided, the 
balance of £3402.85, which was transferred out on 24 April 2018, excluded the recredited 
fee. So on 8 May 2018, £37.50 was transferred out separately. Whilst this means that there  
are a number of entries for this amount  on his statement, Im satisfied that Mr L hasnt 
actually paid this amount.  And as I said in my provisional decision,  I can see no evidence of 
any other fees being debited by Barclays during the transfer period either.  
Mr L has confirmed that he no longer requires any further statements in order to reconcile 
his accounts.  So I wont make any further  findings  on this point or direct  Barclays to take any 
further action. 
Finally, I still think  Barclays  should  pay an additional  £200  compensation to reflect the 
inconvenience and frustration theyve caused. I know Mr L didnt like the wording  I used in 
my provisional findings. I accept that hes in no doubt that hes been disadvantaged. My aim 
was to reflect the fact that Barclays had taken so long and communicated so poorly that Mr L 
wasnt sure whether hed paid any fees or lost any sums or not. Neither I nor Barclays can 
undo this  all I can really do is award a suitable sum. I require Barclays to pay £200  in 
recognition of this. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr L £200 as set out 
above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6514669