K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that British Gas Insurance Limited cancelled his central  heating  insurance 
policy. 
background
Mr M took out the central  heating  cover  with British Gas on line on 12 December 2017.  
The policy requires that a first inspection and service  should be carried out. Mr M called 
British Gas the same day to try book the service appointment, as he was unable to do it 
online. British  Gas confirmed his policy had been set up properly and was active and booked  
the service visit for 12 February 2018.  
 
When the engineer  attended to carry out the service, Mr M told him he thought there might 
be a leak from the boiler.  British Gas says he also told the engineer that the boiler was 
making a noise. The engineer said that as there  was a pre-existing fault with the boiler, it 
would not be covered  and he could only provide a quote for the repairs to be done on a 
private basis. He arranged for the policy to be cancelled and British Gas refunded the 
premium. 
Mr M is extremely unhappy  with British Gass handling of the matter and refusal to cover his 
boiler. He has made a number of submissions, which Ive summarised below:  
When he called British  Gas on 12 December 2017, he was told he was covered for 
any faults with the central heating from that date. He was surprised by this, so asked 
again for clarification. British Gas is now obliged  to cover  his central heating system  
regardless of how the policy  is worded.
The engineer  stayed only three  minutes having arrived  without proper identification.  
He asked Mr M if there were  any problems with the boiler and he told him he thought  
it might  have a leak the engineer said he would only be providing  an estimate for 
works that needed carrying out. However  he did not inspect the boiler, instead he 
followed Mr M up the stairs and asked  to see the water tank.  Having looked  at that 
the engineer told him the system was out of date.  
He told the engineer  he thought  there may have been a leak but he is not an expert  
and that is not sufficient grounds  for cancelling the policy.  It has not been proven that 
there was a pre-existing fault.
British Gas said he was abusive  to the engineer, which is untrue. Mr M doesnt 
accept his system is out of date, as its only seven years  old. Mr M told the engineer  
he was unhappy  with him, as he found  him rude,  arrogant  and unprofessional.  He 
was not abusive in any way and the engineer has lied to cover  the fact that hed did 
not do his job properly.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt recommend that it be upheld,  as 
she was satisfied that British Gas was entitled to cancel the policy.
Mr M doesnt accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been  referred  to 
me. Mr M says that British Gas has already admitted he was told he was covered so the 
investigator is wrong to conclude that he was not told he was covered  during the call in 
December 2017.  
Also the policy  says the engineer will inspect the boiler to check there are no pre-existing 
faults; he didnt  inspect it and there is no option  for it to guess that there  might  be a fault. His 
Ref: DRN69795562boiler has continued to work without any problem and so it cant  be assumed there is a fault. 
Mr M has also recently told us that the boiler has been serviced by a third party  and found no 
fault with it. 
Finally, Mr M also says he doesnt  think he has received a full refund. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states:
At the first service  our engineer will check that your boiler is on our approved  list and your 
boiler or central heating and ventilation dont  have any pre-existing faults.
If we find its not on the approved list or it has a pre-existing  fault well either:
 Tell you what  needs to be done to fix it  and how much itll cost
 Offer  you a different product or level of cover
 Or, cancel  your agreement or product.
This is not unreasonable. No insurer providing  this kind of cover will cover events that 
happen before the contract  of insurance is taken out. If it discovers that there is a pre-
existing fault which would  mean  it wouldnt have  agreed to the policy,  if it had known about  it 
when Mr M first applied for the policy, it is entitled to cancel  the policy provided it also 
refunds the premium.  
I have listened  to the recording  of the call between British Gas and Mr M. The representative  
said the policy was set up and Mr M was covered  from that date.  The representative made  
the appointment for the service and also said if there was a breakdown in the meantime, 
theyd deal with it. However, this is not the same as stating that any faults  that might already 
be in existence  would  be covered; it is referring  to new breakdowns, not problems  already  in 
existence. I dont  therefore agree that anything said in this phone call obliged  British Gas to 
cover Mr Ms boiler, even if there was an existing fault with it. 
When the engineer  attended in February  2018, Mr M told him that he thought there was a 
leak on his boiler.  British Gas says he also told the engineer that the boiler  was making  a 
noise. Mr M has suggested that as he is not an expert and the engineer  didnt examine the 
boiler, British Gas cant state  that there was a pre-existing fault. I dont agree. It wasnt 
guessing that there  was a fault,  Mr M had told the engineer  there was water collecting under 
the boiler, and he thought there was therefore a leak.  Mr M clearly thought there was a 
problem with the boiler and he has not suggested that this only started  shortly  before the 
appointment. While  I agree the engineer should have examined the boiler  further, I dont 
agree that the failure to do so means it wasnt entitled to cancel the policy in February 2018. 
Mr M says he recently had the boiler  serviced and no faults were  found. I havent seen a 
copy of the service report but in any event, it doesnt prove whether there was a fault in 
December 2017  or February 2018.  
British Gas did refund the premiums Mr M paid.  Mr M says he doesnt think he has had a 
refund of everything  he has paid towards  the policy. I have  seen no evidence to support that 
Ref: DRN69795563but if he is able to show he paid more in premiums than was refunded,  I would expect British  
Gas to refund the difference.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6979556