K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008 
alongside a credit card. Ms P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms P says she was unaware she had PPI and that it was applied  to her account  without  her 
knowledge. While Im sure what Ms P has said are her honest  recollections, the PPI was 
sold a long time ago  around 16 years ago  which is something I have to keep  in mind 
when deciding what I think  is more  likely  to have happened.
Capital One says the PPI was sold to Ms P over the phone when she called to activate her 
credit card. Ive seen  a copy of Ms P credit  card application form which  shows  she didnt 
choose to take out PPI at the time she first applied for the card. Ive also seen a screen shot 
which suggests Capital  One had a telephone  call with Ms P in January 2008, a few weeks  
after the credit card application  was signed  and dated, and that PPI was applied to her 
account on the same day as the call. And while I dont have a call record  to listen to, based 
on the evidence  Ive seen I think its likely the PPI was added to the account following the 
call.
Capital One has supplied a copy of a call script it says wouldve been used for this type of 
call - and in the absence of a call recording  or any notes from the call this is the best 
evidence available  of what  is likely  to have happened at the time. This shows that the PPI 
wouldve been presented as optional  and Capital One wouldve explicitly asked Ms P if she 
wanted the cover. As the PPI was then applied to her account I think  its likely she said yes 
to the policy.
So based  on what Ive seen, and in the absence of any evidence  to support what  Ms P has 
said, I think its more likely  than not that Capital One made  it clear  that Ms P didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms P so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms P got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Ms P says she wasnt  given any information about  the PPI. And I think its likely the 
information Capital  One gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  Ive thought  about 
what Ms P has said about her sick pay entitlement from her employer. But the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months  in addition to and for longer than her sick pay wouldve lasted. 
Ref: DRN69557622Shes also told us she didnt have any other savings or insurance to help her make her card 
repayments in the event  she was suddenly unable to work.  So I still the policy  wouldve been  
useful for her and I dont  think  better  information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover.
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms P because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms P about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Ms P, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all
of the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Ms P any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6955762