K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt  help when she made  a payment in error. She 
asks for an apology and compensation.
background
In February 2018  Mrs P made a payment  to her landlord from her Lloyds  account.  She 
duplicated the payment in error. This left her without enough money  for her other living  
expenses. She asked  Lloyds to cancel one of the payments,  but it said both payments had 
already left her account so this wasnt possible.  Lloyds said the quickest way to return the 
payment was for Mrs P to contact her landlord. Mrs P called Lloyds again after her landlord 
told her to contact Lloyds. Lloyds said it would try to recover the payment from the receiving 
bank. It said this could  take up to 21 days.  
Mrs P is unhappy about the way she was spoken to when she called Lloyds. She says it 
didnt explain why it would take so long to get her money back. Shes unhappy about the 
amount of time she had to stay on the call to make a complaint. And she says the call 
handler and complaints manager were rude and abrupt.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the 
information Lloyds  gave Mrs P was correct. The payments had been sent by faster 
payments and it couldnt cancel them. It contacted  the receiving bank the day after Mrs P 
contacted it and requested it return the second  payment. Lloyds followed the correct  
process. The payment  was returned in March,  within the usual timeframe.  
Our investigator said hed listened to Mrs Ps calls with Lloyds. He said the call handlers  
were professional and tried to help. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She said she was told her complaint would be closed if she didnt speak  
to the complaints manager. She wasnt told there  were other ways to complain that didnt 
require her to be on the phone  for over an hour. She said the investigator  hadnt understood 
her distress.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
I think Lloyds responded appropriately when Mrs P contacted  it about  the duplicated 
payment. It said that the payments had already left her account, so it couldnt  cancel them.  It 
gave her correct information about the process  to recover  the payment. And it also told her it 
might be quicker if she asked her landlord  to return the payment. 
Lloyds started the process to recover the payment promptly. It contacted the receiving  bank 
the next day. I dont think it caused any delays. The payment was returned  in March. 
Ref: DRN69793152Mrs P says she was given different information  by her landlord about the process for 
recovering the payment.  No doubt  being given  conflicting information increased Mrs Ps 
upset. But Lloyds isnt responsible for the information she was given by her landlord. 
Mrs P is unhappy about the time she spent  on the phone to Lloyds and the way she was 
spoken to. Ive listened to the calls.  I do understand how upsetting  this was for Mrs P. She 
needed the money returned sooner than the 21 days Lloyds said it could take.  But, however 
unwelcome, I think the information  Lloyds gave her about the process to recover the 
payment was correct.  
Mrs P asked to make  a complaint. The call handler said hed log the complaint  but it wouldnt 
be upheld as Lloyds  hadnt made an error.  Mrs P waited  while  the complaint was logged.  
She was unhappy  with the outcome and asked for the complaint to be escalated.  She was 
on hold until a complaint handler  became free. The complaint handler confirmed the 
complaint wasnt upheld and said the correct process had been followed.  
I understand Mrs Ps frustration, but I cant require Lloyds to change its complaint  handling  
process. I appreciate that Lloyds couldnt give her the answer  she wanted  that there was a 
quicker way to recover the payment   but I dont think its staff were rude or abrupt.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6979315