K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Erudio Student  Loans Limited  (Erudio) did not allow him to defer  his 
student loan and failed to record a change of his address.
background
Mr P had a student loan administered by Erudio. In 2014  Mr P successfully applied  to Erudio 
to defer  his loan as he was self-employed, and his income fell below the threshold. In 2015 
Erudio asked Mr P to re-apply for deferment  of his loan again as this was an annual 
requirement. 
Mr P completed a deferment  application  form and attached 12 months bank statements in 
order to try and prove his income. Erudio said that Mr P didnt supply enough information to 
them with the application and asked  for further evidence  of his income.
Mr P says that Erudio  told him he needed to supply a current tax return or accountants 
letter. He says that he did not have  either  of these documents and that Erudio failed  to tell 
him that he could have  also supplied invoices. Mr P also says that he spoke to Erudio later 
that year, explaining that he had a new job and had moved to a new address. Mr P says that 
Erudio told him that they would contact him in six months time when he would be able to 
use his payslips to evidence his deferment application. Mr P says Erudio never contacted  
him again to discuss  his deferment and then issued a repayment letter to his old address. 
Mr P says when he phoned  them to tell them there  was an error, Erudio told him that he was 
no longer able to defer his loan and must  repay it. 
In early 2019 Mr P received a letter  from a debt recovery agent on behalf  of Erudio. 
Mr P complained to Erudio saying that they should  have deferred his loan in 2015 and that 
they also failed  to update  his address when he called them.
In response, Erudio  said that they had sent Mr P letters containing  the information he 
needed on how to defer his loan. Erudio denied that Mr P informed them  of a change  of 
address as they said they had no record of this. Erudio also said that they told Mr P to 
re-apply for deferment  once he had two months  payslips  from his new job which he never 
sent. Erudio said that the deferment application  was not processed incorrectly and so they 
had done nothing wrong. Mr P did not agree with Erudio and so brought his complaint to us. 
Erudio supplied us with the letters they sent to Mr P at the time of his deferment application. 
They also supplied us with the how to guide for applying for deferment which  was 
included with the application  sent to Mr P in 2015. Erudio no longer had call recordings but 
sent us the call notes from Mr Ps account. 
Our investigator said that the letters posted to Mr P in 2015 contained enough information for 
Mr P to know  what documents  were needed from him in order  to defer his loan. Therefore, it 
was reasonable  for Erudio not to defer the loan in 2015. They also said they could not see 
any evidence that Mr P had recorded  a change of address with Erudio.
Mr P remained unhappy  with this and so the matter  has been  passed onto me for a decision.
Ref: DRN60580112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether Erudio were reasonable in not deferring  Mr Ps loan in 2015. 
Erudios letters sent to Mr P in 2015 quite clearly  set out which documents were  required in 
order to evidence his income. Mr P had deferred  his loan the previous year and 
acknowledges that he had previously supplied both bank statements and invoices. I can see 
Mr P felt that sending  a years worth of bank statements would be enough. However, I think 
that the letter and how to guide  is clear that invoices were also required. When Mr P 
phoned Erudio  they were  not wrong in telling him that he could have also supplied  either  an 
accountants letter or tax return. So, I think it is more likely than not that Mr P was aware  of 
the ways in which he had to evidence  his income.  
Both parties  agree that Mr P updated Erudio  about his new job and that they discussed 
using payslips to evidence a deferment application. I have considered  Mr Ps account  of the 
conversation he had with Erudio. Erudio  have also supplied their call notes from the time. 
The notes record the fact that Mr P has a new job and goes on to say that Mr P did not have 
a contract of employment  so would send two months payslips once he had them. 
I know Mr Ps account of this conversation is different. However, the notes were  made  
around the time of the call when the information  would have been fresh in the authors mind. 
The information recorded in the notes is also in line with Erudios policy  on deferment set out 
in the information sent to Mr P. So, I think it is more  likely than not that Mr P was asked to 
send two payslips  and re-apply for deferment  once he had them.  I believe Mr P ought to 
have known that it was his responsibility  to re-apply for the deferment once he had enough 
payslips as he had previously been through this application process. 
Erudio were not sent the required information to process Mr Ps deferment application in 
2015. Therefore,  I cant say that they should have deferred the loan at that time.
Ive then considered  if it was likely  that Mr P recorded a change of address with Erudio. 
Mr P says that he told Erudio that he had moved  address during the call about his new job. 
Again, Erudio rely on their call notes which were made around the time of the call in 2015.  
The notes do not show that Mr P told Erudio that he had changed address. The notes go on 
to show that Mr P called  Erudio in early 2016 to say that his letters were being sent to the 
wrong address.  When asked for his address  Mr P would  not provide it to Erudio. So, Mr P 
had the opportunity to address the issue when he called Erudio in 2016  but decided  not to. 
For the reasons  I have  already explained,  Mr P would have known he needed  to get in touch 
with Erudio even  if he had not heard from them.   
Ref: DRN60580113my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6058011