K820x#14Complaint
Miss K complains  about Barclays Bank  UK Plcs decision to block  her account whilst she 
was abroad. 
Background
On 23 August 2018 Miss K left the UK to visit another country for an extended  period.  Miss K 
has told us that whilst she was away she had hoped to use funds in her bank account for a 
project in the country she was visiting. 
On 29 August 2018 £500 was transferred to Miss Ks current account with Barclays. But on 
2 September 2018 Barclays received a notification that the £500 transfer hadnt been 
approved by the sender.  As a result, a fraud  investigation was started by Barclays  and 
Miss Ks current account was blocked.  
On 6 September 2018 the team investigating  the transfer was able to talk to Miss K over the 
phone. But she failed the verification process at the beginning of the call. As a result, an 
additional security  check was added that required Miss K to take identification into a branch.
As Miss K was abroad she wasnt able to visit Barclays.  Shes  told us that her plans had to 
be changed and that she had to borrow money from family members which was 
embarrassing. As a result, Miss K says she booked a one way ticket  back  to the UK and 
ended her trip early. 
Miss K visited a branch on 9 October  2018 with identification. Whilst Miss K was in branch 
she was asked about the transfer that had been  returned. Barclays  removed the block from 
Miss Ks account on 23 October 2018. 
Miss K complained and Barclays responded on 24 October 2018. Barclays  agreed  it had 
taken too long to remove  the block and offered Miss K £300 to apologise. Miss K referred 
her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator thought 
Barclays had dealt  with Miss Ks complaint  fairly so didnt ask it to do anything  else.  Miss K 
asked to appeal  so her complaint has been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Ks frustration and upset. She was abroad at the time this issue  
occurred and the account block  impacted her trip. Miss K says she had to return home  early.  
But I have to balance  that against the other information available. Barclays has provided  
systems information to show  that after £500 was transferred to Miss K on 29 August 2018 it 
received a notification  that it hadnt been approved by the account holder. As a result,  
Barclays had to investigate the transfer  to see if it was genuine. 
Barclays' terms allow it to review and block an account in these circumstances. So I cant 
say its made an error by blocking Miss Ks account  on 2 September  2018 and starting an 
investigation. Barclays notes show it wanted to ask her questions about  the transfer to see if 
it was genuine.  But when Miss K called on 6 September 2018 she failed  the security  
Ref: DRN64178692questions. As a result of the failed security questions Barclays put another  restriction on 
Miss Ks account that meant she had to take identification into branch.  
I appreciate Miss K was abroad at the time which meant her options were  very limited. But 
Barclays has to protect  its customers accounts. Im satisfied  its request for identification 
after Miss K didnt answer the security  questions correctly was reasonable. Had Miss K 
passed security when she called on 6 September  2018  Im satisfied Barclays  would have 
proceeded to ask her questions about  the transfer in order  to carry out its review. 
As Ive said above,  Miss K failed  the security questions on 6 September 2018. That meant 
an additional  security  check was needed  which involved taking identification to a branch. 
Whilst I understand Miss K was abroad  at the time,  Barclays  took steps to protect her 
account after the verification process  was failed. I havent been persuaded that Barclays 
made a mistake or treated  Miss K unfairly  by asking for identification to be provided  in 
branch. 
Once Miss K returned to the UK she visited a branch on 9 October  2018  and took her 
identification. I can see Miss K was upset by some  of the questions she was asked. I 
appreciate the questions  Barclays  asked  may have  caused some  distress to Miss K but Im 
satisfied it had to ask about the disputed transfer  in order to investigate whether it was 
genuine. Looking  at the notes, it appears  Barclays was satisfied no fraud  had occurred from 
9 October 2018. But the block remained in place for another two weeks.  
Like the investigator, I agree Barclays seems  to have been in a position to remove the block 
from 9 October 2018. There appears to have been  a delay of around two weeks  before that 
happened so I think its reasonable for Barclays to compensate Miss K. 
Barclays offered £300 to resolve the complaint. As Ive explained above, I think the delay  in 
this case took place between 9 October 2018 and 23 October  2018,  when  the account block 
was removed. I havent found that Barclays made a mistake by putting the block in place on 
2 September 2018 or by asking Miss K to provide identification in branch after she failed the 
security questions on 6 September 2018.  As I havent found that Barclays made a mistake  
until 9 October 2018 Im not telling it to compensate Miss K for anything  that happened 
before that date.  
Ive considered the impact of how Barclays handled this situation on Miss K. Ive thought  
about everything shes told us when reaching my decision. Having done so, Im satisfied the 
£300 Barclays has offered  is fair in all the circumstances. As Barclays has already made an 
offer that is fair and reasonable,  Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Barclays  Bank UK Plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ref: DRN64178693Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6417869