K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a mortgage. Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham and Gloucester at the 
time, mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs W says it wasnt  clear the PPI was optional. Ive thought  about  this but Ive also 
considered the other evidence available to come to a decision on what I think  is more likely 
to have happened. 
Ive seen a copy  of a PPI application form Mrs W saw and signed - which  was separate and 
additional to her mortgage application  form - and there is no indication  in here that PPI was a 
compulsory product. Ive also seen a copy of a personal summary and recommendations 
document which recorded the advice given to Mrs W at the time.  This shows  that the advisor 
recommended Mrs W to take out the policy based on her circumstances at the time  but 
again there is no suggestion  that the PPI was compulsory. And as the evidence  suggests 
this was an advised sale I think its likely Mrs W was told she should  take out the policy  - but 
thats different  to being told she had to take out the policy.  
The separate PPI application form also included a direct debit mandate to authorise  Lloyds 
to take the PPI premiums from Mrs Ws chosen bank account. So I think Mrs W wouldve  
known this was a separate and optional product. Mrs W signed the completed PPI 
application form to consent to take out the cover. So overall I think it was clear that Mrs W 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this.
As I said above, Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the policy  
was right for her. Mrs W says it wasnt right for her as she was employed part-time for 16 
hours a week. Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and I can see that to be eligible 
for the policy Mrs W had to be in employment for at least 16 hours  a week. And based on 
what Ive seen and been told Im satisfied that she met this criteria. 
The policy also outlines  that Mrs W wouldve only been eligible for the unemployment  
benefits of the cover  once she had been employed  continuously for six months. Mrs Ws 
mortgage application states that she had been with her employer for two months at the time. 
I havent been provided with any information about Mrs Ws employment  status  prior to this 
but I think its likely she wouldve been employed  prior to this in order to satisfy the lending 
conditions. But even  if I consider its possible she wasnt employed before this, the policy 
commenced in January  2005 and the policy included  an initial waiting period of 90 days 
where no claims could be made.  So by the time Mrs W wouldve been  able to claim, she 
wouldve been eligible for the unemployment cover as well as the other elements of cover. 
So I dont  think it was wrong for Lloyds to recommend the PPI to her.
Ref: DRN65875092Ive considered everything else Ive seen of Mrs Ws circumstances  from the time and I 
havent seen anything else which I think wouldve meant the policy  wasnt suitable for her. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover 
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Mrs W had limited other means to make her repayments. While she was entitled to sick pay 
from her employer at the time, she didnt have any savings or other insurance to rely on. Ive 
also seen that the mortgage was in her sole name  and she had two dependants.  The PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and in addition  to her sick pay. So she couldve used 
these funds for other expenses. And the policy also provided unemployment cover which 
wouldve been useful  to her had she been  made  redundant.    
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mrs W some of the commission she 
paid back. The Supreme  Court ruling  and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Ws mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mrs W paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6587509