K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that Mulsanne Insurance  Company Limited declined its 
claim on its commercial  motor insurance  policy for the theft of a van. It wants  the claim 
honoured. S is represented in this matter by Mr O, its director.  
background
One of Ss employees parked a van outside  the office and placed the keys on an adjacent  
cars windscreen wipers.  A thief then took the keys and stole the van. Mulsanne  rejected the 
claim as it said reasonable steps  hadnt been taken to protect the van from loss.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that as 
the keys had been left unattended in a public place  then reasonable care hadnt been taken 
to protect  the van. 
Mr O replied that the theft had caused his business  a significant loss. He wanted Mulsanne 
to pay at least some of the cost. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the theft of the van has had a significant financial impact  on S. Our 
approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mulsanne relied on a general condition that said the insured must take reasonable steps to 
safeguard the van to decline  the claim. I can also see that Ss policy  contains an exclusion 
from cover  that says it wont pay for loss caused  by theft,
 while  nobody is in your vehicle, unless all the doors, windows and other  openings are 
closed or locked, and your vehicles keys are removed and are not within  or on the vehicle 
or have  been  left unattended in a public place
This is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual  or 
unreasonable. But it is significant  and I can see that the exclusion is set out in the general 
exclusions section applying to fire and theft.  So I think  it was reasonably brought to Ss 
attention and Mulsanne can rely on it to decline a claim. 
Ive seen the CCTV footage of the theft and this is confirmed  by Mr Os and the drivers 
statements. The vans  driver  left the keys on the windscreen wipers  of an adjacent  private 
car in a place that had public access. He then left the area for a short  time and the thief 
picked up the keys, opened  the van and drove away. I think that the vans driver was clearly 
not in a position to deter the theft.  
So I think Mulsanne was justified in deciding that as the keys had been  left unattended  in a 
public place then the van hadnt been  reasonably safeguarded. And so I cant say it was 
unreasonable for it to then decline the claim for the vans theft due to the policys  terms and 
conditions. And so I dont  require  Mulsanne  to change its decision.  
Ref: DRN65869562Mr O said that the van must  have  been  targeted by a professional  thief. But I dont think  this 
is relevant to Mulsannes decision  to decline the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019. 
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6586956