K820x#14complaint
Ms V says Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
The policy started  in 1995 with a mortgage  Ms V took at a Halifax branch. Due to the time 
thats passed, its not clear how Halifax sold the PPI to Ms V. Halifax  thinks  it might have 
been sold with the mortgage at the branch. Ms V has said it was sold to her while  she was 
filling in a leaflet  and via a leaflet  she was given.
Ms V was employed at the time as an administrator and had been there two years. Shes 
told us she was entitled to less than three  months full sick pay and redundancy pay. Ms V 
has told us she also had savings, worth at least three but less than six months pay, which  
she couldve  used to pay her mortgage if she couldnt work. From what  she has told us, at 
the time of the sale she was in good health  and didnt have any existing  health  issues. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms V for accident, sickness and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It cost just over £24 a month at the start and for a successful 
claim it offered to pay £350 a month to help Ms V meet her mortgage  related costs. Halifax  
has sent us evidence showing that the mortgage account closed in 2003.  
Ms Vs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Ms Vs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Ms V wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Ms Vs representatives  believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Ms V about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms V and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Ms V received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN69153912Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Ms V disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Vs. I dont intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Vs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Ms Vs case.
Ref: DRN69153913 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Ms Vs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Ms V with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Ms V sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms V, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Ms V suffered loss or damage and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms V and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Vs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms V know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Halifax hasnt been able to give us 
information to show how the PPI was sold or provide any paperwork from the time. But given 
how long ago the mortgage  account  was closed, this is not surprising.
Ms V has said she had no interest  in PPI and it was just included as part of her mortgage 
package. Shes also said the PPI was sold to her while she was filling in a leaflet and via a 
leaflet she was given.  Ive thought carefully  about  all these points.
Ref: DRN69153914Ms V took her mortgage not via a leaflet  or mailshot  but in a meeting at a branch. So if the 
PPI was sold via a leaflet she was given,  then even if this were given during the meeting it 
would still seem to indicate a separate application,  or at least  information, process for the 
PPI  and as such is not supportive of Ms Vs recollection of the PPI being  simply included 
as part of her mortgage  package. That said, Ms Vs recollections arent very detailed  but, 
given the time that passed in between,  I wouldnt expect Ms V now,  or when she first set her 
recollections out, to vividly recall the sale or remember everything that was discussed.
With all this in mind, on balance what Ms V has said doesnt on its own persuade me Halifax  
didnt give her a choice about  the PPI or misled her about having  to take it. Ive nothing  else 
to make me think that Halifax wouldnt normally have given customers  a choice about the 
PPI and didnt  do the same  for Ms V at the time of this sale.
With everything Ive said above  in mind, what I have doesnt  persuade  me that Halifax  didnt 
give Ms V a choice about taking the PPI. Also, Ive nothing to suggest she didnt agree to the 
policy. So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely Ms V knew the policy was 
optional and likely she agreed to take it without  undue  pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice at the sale. Ms V says it didnt.  But if Halifax did give advice, 
Halifax had to do more.  With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis that Halifax 
gave advice. This means it had to advise Ms V with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know exactly what steps Halifax took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms V. There is no record of what  Halifax  mightve discussed in relation  
to the policy  at the branch  meeting. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during such a 
meeting. Halifax had some limited  information  about  Ms Vs financial circumstances from her 
mortgage application. It also has records completed to say that Ms V fell between the ages 
of 18 and 60, was working and had no existing health issues or knowledge of impending 
unemployment. But I dont  know exactly when or how these records were  completed  so 
Ive no specific evidence  to show Halifax took steps,  before making  a recommendation, to 
establish whether  Ms V would be caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which 
might have meant the policy  didnt fully meet her needs. Also,  Ive nothing to show  Halifax  
asked Ms V about  her work benefits and established  whether she had a need  for the cover.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Ms V given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms V, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately suitable for her. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms V met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Ms V had a need for the policy  even  allowing  for her work benefits, it seems  likely she 
would suffer a significant fall in income  were she not able to work  for an extended period 
Ref: DRN69153915due to disability  or redundancy.  The benefit would help her manage the consequences  of 
that fall and so help protect her home. The policy benefit would also help her keep intact 
the savings shed chosen to keep rather than use towards her mortgage, or, by helping 
meet her mortgage  related  costs, help leave those savings free to meet other  liabilities at 
what could be a difficult time were Mrs V unemployed or too sick to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms V. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms V. There was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which would have made  it difficult  for her to 
claim. And she had no existing  health issues that couldve affected  her ability  to claim.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Ms V were  unable to do her own or any similar job and unable  
to do any work  her experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified  her to do. But 
the policy still provided valuable cover given  Ms Vs circumstances and the significant 
loss of income shed  likely suffer were she unable to work for an extended  period due to 
disability or redundancy.
-From  what Halifax has told us, the unemployment terms wouldve likely stopped Ms V 
from claiming for unemployment  after she reached age 60. But given her age at the time 
of the recommendation, Ms V wouldve been  covered  by the policy  for unemployment for 
a reasonable length of time - long enough  to make  the policy worthwhile.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Ms V sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms V was given a broad  description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is the policy would protect her payments if she were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms V would have taken  the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms V agreed to the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms V, Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Ms V all the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN69153916In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Vs representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Vs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Ms Vs representative considers to be poor value   and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Ms V about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Vs representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Ms V has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Halifax ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Ms V? To what extent did she suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Ms V. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Ms V suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would have still 
taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Ms V, I have found the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In those circumstances it seems  to me that, whether or not Ms V has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Ms V would  have acted  differently  or whether she would have taken the policy  in any event.
Ms V says she wouldnt  have taken  it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. 
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Ms V had some  interest in taking payment protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised her there was a suitable product she could 
buy that would protect  her mortgage  payments if she were unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that product. But she made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she thought she was getting is 
not exactly what she got. 
Ref: DRN69153917As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Vs circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not Ms V knew she would have to pay something  for 
the policy, it doesnt appear  Halifax  told her the exact premium at the point she applied  for it. 
Having said that, I think it unlikely Ms V wouldve taken the PPI without  some  idea of the 
approximate cost. Also if when she started to pay for it the cost had been significantly  at 
odds with her expectations  at the point of sale, its possible she might have raised that with 
Halifax or reconsidered her decision at the time  instead she paid for it for a number of 
years and had it cancelled only in the month  before the mortgage account was repaid early.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms V would  have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure at the time she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Ms V would get back  in return  
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely her expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not the policy actually paid more  in the event of a claim than she would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms V thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Ms V knew  about at the start or 
had got advice or treatment from a doctor for in the 12 months before the start if that 
health issue recurred within 24 months of the start;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Ms V wasnt 
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Ms V be unable to do her own 
or any similar job and unable to do any paid work her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do;
All cover would end at age 65 and, from what Halifax has told us, Ms V wouldnt be able 
to claim for unemployment  after age 60;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Ms V pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms V from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Ms Vs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Ms V was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms V didnt have any existing  
Ref: DRN69153918health issues and was in permanent employment. So, I think she still had some good 
reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Ms V might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms V 
from taking the policy,  Ms V, in her circumstances,  still had some good reasons to take it.
If Ms V had known she could only claim for disability  if she were  not only unable to do her 
own or any similar job but also unable  to do any paid work  her experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although, given Ms Vs 
circumstances, on balance I think she wouldve still been interested  in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Ms V any claim she made would be limited to 12 months. This 
may have  differed from what  she expected  and might have hoped for. But her sick pay and 
redundancy entitlement from her employer was worth significantly less than 12 months pay. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms V wouldve  still thought a policy that paid up to 
12 monthly benefit payments would be of benefit  and help her manage the consequences if 
she were unable to work in the circumstances covered by the PPI. The policy  allowed for 
multiple claims to be made  and, by helping Ms V meet  mortgage  related costs, the benefit 
would reduce her outgoings, help ensure her home was not placed at risk and help leave her 
savings intact  or free to meet other liabilities  at what could be a difficult time if Ms V were 
unemployed or too sick to work.
Ms V has complained she ceased to be eligible to claim on the policy when she turned 60 
during its term. In fact Ms Vs policy was cancelled, and the mortgage account repaid, before 
she turned  60. But the mortgage term was originally due to end when Ms V was 65. So Ive 
thought about all shes said about  this and the fact the cover  would end when  she retired but 
at age 65 if earlier and, for unemployment, at age 60 for Ms V from what  Halifax  has said 
about the terms. But Ms V was in her mid-forties when she took the policy,  so I think it more  
likely than not she wouldve thought it wouldve covered her for unemployment  for a 
reasonable period of time before she turned  60 and shed  get some  value out of having it. 
Also, as Ive explained, I think she understood, broadly, that the cover was in case she 
wasnt able to work due to disability or unemployment - so I think  it unlikely she wouldve 
thought she could claim these benefits after retiring. With all this in mind, I think it unlikely 
better information about when cover would end wouldve changed Ms Vs decision to take it.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Ms V would still have taken the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help 
her manage the consequences if she were made redundant, or unable  to work through  
accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely  than not Ms V would 
have taken the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN69153919Ms Vs representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms V would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Vs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms V 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms V believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms V in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible she wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken the PPI had she 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  she was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude Halifax  
should pay Ms V compensation,  as that would  put her in a better  position  than she would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware Ms V thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Halifaxs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Halifax gave Ms V, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Vs representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms V and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find Halifax  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
Ref: DRN691539110and reasonable to put Ms V in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6915391