K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that an appointed representative of company owned by Intrinsic  
Financial Planning Ltd failed to provide them with sufficient information  about the advice 
service that would be provided  to them and the fees that would be charged.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
December 2018.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Intrinsic has said it has nothing  
further to add. Mr and Mrs S have  provided  me with some comments. Although I am only 
summarising here what Mr and Mrs S have  said, I have  considered  their entire response 
carefully before writing  this decision.
Mr and Mrs S expressed surprise that their meetings with Mr B had been  recorded. They  say 
they were unaware  that had happened. They also reiterate that they werent given  a copy of 
the client agreement  at either meeting,  nor did they sign it. And Mr and Mrs S note that it 
appears convenient  that Mr B has been unable to provide full recordings of both meetings.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Intrinsic hasnt provided  us with anything further, and that Mr and Mrs S havent  
added anything that contradicts my earlier findings, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
It doesnt seem to me that Mr and Mrs S were given sufficient information  in the initial  
meeting so they could understand the service  that was being  offered  by Mr B, and what they 
would need to pay for it. I think  if Mr B had made that sufficiently clear then I dont think 
Mr and Mrs S would have continued to engage his services. As a result  I dont  think Mr B 
has treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and they should be refunded the fee they have paid.
putting things right
Intrinsic should refund  the £1,500 fee that Mr and Mrs S paid. Intrinsic should add simple  
interest at a rate of 8% per annum to that refund from the date it was paid by Mr and Mrs S 
(17 January  2018) to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Intrinsic to take off tax from this interest. Intrinsic must 
give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and direct Intrinsic Financial 
Planning Ltd to put things  right as detailed above.  
Ref: DRN62889852Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62889853EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that an appointed representative of company owned by Intrinsic Financial  
Planning Ltd failed to provide them with sufficient information about  the advice service  that would be 
provided to them and the fees that would be charged.
background
In late 2017 Mr and Mrs S wished  to take advice  around the consolidation of a number of pension 
funds held by Mr S. Previously they had taken financial advice on other investments from a building 
society. However the society told Mr and Mrs S that it was unable to provide advice in relation  to 
Mr Ss pensions. So they approached  an appointed representative of a company  owned  by Intrinsic 
Financial Planning through a third party website. Mr B was the advisor  from the appointed 
representative who dealt  with Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr B met with Mr and Mrs S at their home in early December 2017.  There  are several disagreements 
between Mr B and Mr and Mrs S, that I will refer to later in this decision, about what  was said at that 
meeting. But what is clear is that during the meeting Mr B agreed to perform some work for Mr and 
Mrs S and so returned to them early in the new year for a further meeting.
That meeting between Mr B and Mr and Mrs S took place on 17 January  2018.  At the meeting Mr B 
presented some analysis to Mr and Mrs S of their financial situation, including  investments that they 
held elsewhere. And he presented Mr and Mrs S with an invoice for £1,500 in relation to the work  he 
had performed. Mr and Mrs S paid that invoice  by cheque before Mr B left their home. As before there 
are also some disagreements about what happened at that meeting  that I will cover later in this 
decision.
The day after the meeting Mr and Mrs S emailed  Mr B with concerns about the proposals he 
presented the day before.  And as a result they confirmed to Mr B that they only wanted him to provide 
advice on the consolidation of Mr Ss pensions. Mr B then provided  Mr and Mrs S with the fees he 
would charge  for that work. Mr S acknowledged receipt of that information  by email.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Intrinsic  about  the service they had received.  They said that they hadnt 
wanted a full review of their financial situation  only advice  on the consolidation  of Mr Ss pensions. 
And they said they hadnt  been  made aware of the charges that would  be levied, in particular  those 
for the full review of their financial situation. Intrinsic didnt uphold  that complaint so Mr and Mrs S 
brought it to this service.
The complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  that the appointed 
representative of the company owned by Intrinsic had done anything  wrong. So he didnt recommend  
the complaint was upheld, or that the advice fee should  be repaid to Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with that assessment so have  asked, as they are perfectly entitled to, that 
the complaint be decided by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN62889854The events that took place have been described  in some detail by Mr and Mrs S and by Mr B. I have 
also been provided with an audio recording of most of the second meeting that took place in January 
2018. But there  remain  a number of discrepancies  between  the accounts of the meetings provided  by 
Mr and Mrs S and by Mr B. So where the evidence  is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what  evidence  we do 
have, and the surrounding circumstances,  to help me decide what  I think  is more  likely to have 
happened.
It is disappointing  that there is no audio recording of the first meeting available. Mr B says that the 
recording has been corrupted and is unusable. But that leaves me in the difficult  position of having 
two very different accounts  of what happened  in that meeting.
Intrinsic has provided me with a copy of the standard client agreement  that it says would have formed  
the basis  of the work that was done by Mr B, and the charges that he levied for doing that work. I can 
see that the agreement  notes that the initial meeting is provided free of charge. And it seems clear to 
me that this was the meeting that took place  in December  2017. But the agreement then suggests 
that to move forwards from that meeting it would  be necessary for a client to sign a copy  of the 
agreement, providing them with clarity about  the work that was to be done,  and a clear description  of 
the charges they would need to pay.
Mr and Mrs S say that they didnt ever sign a copy of this agreement. And they say that the first time 
they were aware of it was when it was sent to them by Intrinsic in response to their complaint. But 
Mr B says he showed Mr and Mrs S the agreement on his laptop at the first meeting, but since he had 
no printed copy he wasnt able to ask them  to sign it. He says he did get a signed  agreement  at the 
second meeting, but it has been mislaid.  He thinks it might have been left with Mr and Mrs S by 
mistake.
The recording  of the second meeting appears to start part way through  that meeting. So I dont  know 
if Mr and Mrs S were  asked  to sign the agreement before then.  And it appears to conclude slightly 
before the end of the meeting. So the agreement could  have been signed then too. But it doesnt 
seem Mr and Mrs S were  asked to sign the agreement during the recorded part of the meeting. Im 
not drawing any adverse  conclusions from there only being a recording of part of the meeting   it 
seems entirely  natural that the recording  equipment  might only be activated  as the primary business  
of the meeting starts, and will need to be turned off before the advisor  leaves. But based on what  
I have seen, I cannot  safely conclude that Mr and Mrs S signed the client agreement, or were even 
aware of what  it contained.
Mr Bs own reflections on this complaint  indicate that he feels there was a misunderstanding between  
himself and Mr and Mrs S about what work  he was to carry out. It seems  that Mr and Mrs S were  only 
expecting advice on the consolidation of the various pensions. Mr B is clear that he wouldnt  be happy 
giving that advice in isolation  without an assessment of the whole  of a consumers finances. And 
I dont think it is unreasonable for him to say that  it is important to include pensions as just one 
source of income in retirement.  It may be far more advantageous  for consumers to use other savings 
before accessing their pension funds.
But that misunderstanding  is critical  to this complaint.  It is entirely reasonable that Mr and Mrs S 
should have been given the opportunity to decline the service being offered by Mr B if that wasnt 
what they wanted.  And similarly Mr B would  have been free to decline Mr and Mrs Ss request for 
advice unless it covered all their finances.  I think that if Mr and Mrs S had been given a paper copy of 
the client  agreement, they had been asked to sign it, and had taken  the opportunity to review it at their 
own pace, it would have  been clear to them what advice  was being  provided by Mr B and what they 
were being  asked to pay for it.
Ref: DRN62889855Although, as I said earlier, I only have a partial  recording of the second meeting I dont share  the view 
expressed by Mr S that the meeting was at times fraught  or difficult. It seems to have been relatively 
cordial throughout the period of the recording. But that doesnt lead me to conclude that Mr and Mrs S 
were previously aware of the work that Mr B intended to do for them.  In situations such as these it is 
common for consumers to listen politely  to the information being presented and only later reflect that it 
didnt meet their expectations.
And that is what happened here. The following day Mr and Mrs S emailed Mr B to advise  him that 
they didnt expect to receive advice relating to their other investments  they only wanted advice on 
the pensions. Mr B confirmed that it appeared there had been  a misunderstanding between  them and 
offered to continue work on the pensions  consolidation.  At that point Mr B asked whether there would  
be any other  charges  to complete the pensions  work.
I think  that question is very important here. From the recording of the second meeting Mr and Mrs S 
dont seem surprised or upset about the invoice  for £1,500 that they were  asked to pay. That was 
roughly the charge detailed in the client agreement for the initial stages  of the advice (slightly rounded 
down). So that might lead me to conclude that they were aware of the charge  and what it would  cover.
But Mr and Mrs S have  said they thought the charge was solely in relation to the work that would 
need to be done in consolidating their pensions. And knowing there would  be a charge for this work 
they were happy to pay it. And that seems to me to be supported by them asking  if there would be 
other costs to sort the pensions out. It was only when  they understood there would be additional  
costs, and how much those  costs would  be, that they complained to Intrinsic.
It doesnt  seem to me that Mr and Mrs S were given  sufficient information in the initial meeting so they 
could understand the service  that was being offered  by Mr B, and what they would  need to pay for it. 
I think  if Mr B had made that sufficiently clear then I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have continued  to 
engage his services.  As a result I dont currently think Mr B has treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and they 
should be refunded the fee they have paid.
Ref: DRN6288985