K820x#14complaint
Mr T, and his representative Miss T, complain about the way Aviva  Insurance  Limited has 
dealt with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
 
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here.  Instead,  I will focus  on giving the reasons for my decision.
background 
On 15 January 2019 Mr T reported that his parked car had been damaged and 
vandalised. He made a claim on his Aviva third party fire and theft (TPFT) motor  
insurance policy. 
Aviva  says the first report made  was only for collision damage and vandalism. 
Attempted theft wasnt mentioned until over a week later.  It relied on an engineers 
inspection which concluded  that only some of the damage was attributable to 
attempted theft and it offered a cash settlement of £850.90 for this less the £500 
policy excess. Its also accepted it couldve handled some  things  better and offered 
£200 compensation for this.
Mr T and Miss T arent happy with the way Aviva  has dealt with the claim and its 
customer service.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr T and Miss T remain dissatisfied  and have asked for an ombudsman  review.  They  
say it isnt a fair result and they shouldnt have to meet  any out of pocket expenses. 
What has happened has greatly  affected  them financially and had a huge  negative 
impact on their ability to live and work.  
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided this complaint  should not be upheld  for these reasons:
Here Mr Ts TPFT policy covers only damage caused by theft or attempted theft and 
this is set out in the policy terms and conditions. 
When the claim was first reported  by Miss T, it appears 11 days  after it occurred, she 
didnt mention an attempted theft.  That was only raised some days later.
Its not for me to determine  exactly what damage was caused  to Mr Ts car and 
when. But I can look at whether Aviva  has investigated  the claim fairly. Here  Aviva 
obtained an inspection  report  from an engineer.  This report noted damage  to the car 
including theft damage to an offside door lock. Aviva  said only that limited  damage 
was attributable to theft and it has offered to pay £350.90 for this after deducting the 
policy excess. 
Ref: DRN65678482Mr T and Miss T may disagree  with Avivas interpretation of the evidence and 
decision to only offer a cash settlement for the door lock damage.  But in doing so I 
dont think its failed  to comply  with the policy terms or acted unfairly  or unreasonably. 
The other and additional damage wasnt related  to theft or attempted theft and isnt 
therefore covered  by the TPFT policy.
Aviva  was also entitled to dispose of the car having given Mr T and Miss T 
reasonable notice it would  do so.
Aviva  has however accepted it couldve handled  some aspects of the claim better. Its 
offered £200 compensation  for this. Taking  everything into account,  including the 
level of awards we make, I think thats fair. 
I understand Mr T and Miss Ts frustration. But taking everything into account I dont 
think Aviva  has done anything wrong.  And I dont think  I can fairly  or reasonably  
require it to do anything more including paying  anything more to Mr T as they would 
like. Overall I dont see a compelling  reason  to change  the proposed outcome in this 
case.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. I simply leave it for Mr T to decide if he 
wants to accept Avivas offer to pay him £350.90  for the door lock damage  and £200 
compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6567848