K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
In 2007, Mr P took out PPI over the phone  to protect the repayments  on a credit card. It 
covered him if he couldnt work due to accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Capital One didnt agree, so the 
case was passed  to me to review afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ps case. 
Having done so, Im upholding  the complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr P. So it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. That said, it still should have provided him with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI, so he could decide  for himself if it was right for him. From what  
Ive seen of how the PPI was sold to him I dont think it did that. I think that made  a 
difference to his decision to buy it.
Essentially, the PPI didnt cover accident  and sickness claims relating to pre-existing  medical  
conditions that Mr P knew about  or should reasonably have  known about  at the start of the 
credit card account and that persisted or returned within 24 months of the start. It also 
restricted claims for backache. 
I cant see that Capital  One made the above terms clear to Mr P at the time of the sale. And I 
dont think hed have  bought the PPI had he known  about them. Thats because Mr Ps told 
us he underwent major back surgery the year prior to taking out the PPI. 
Capital Ones queried why, in his submissions  to us, Mr P indicated  both that he did have a 
pre-existing medical condition and that he didnt.  But, looking at his submissions   which  
were put together by a third party  Im satisfied  that should be put down to a clerical error  
and that he did, in fact, have  a significant back condition. 
Overall, I think Mr Ps lost out because of how Capital One sold him the PPI and that it 
should put things right for him as below. 
putting things right
Capital One should put Mr P in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Capital One should find out how much Mr P would owe on his credit card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it.
Ref: DRN61714572So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mr P owes  and what he 
would have owed.
If Mr P made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Capital One can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Capital  One works out what Mr P would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mr P paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Capital One should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr P would have owed Capital One something  on his credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.Capital One should tell Mr P what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
I understand Mr Ps subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA). His Insolvency 
Practitioner (IP) says they have an interest in any refund Mr P might receive. Mr P and 
Capital One should bear in mind Mr Ps obligations to his IP in respect of any redress  he 
receives.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding the complaint.  I require Capital One (Europe) plc to put things 
right for Mr P as explained above.  
Im required  to ask Mr P to accept or reject  my decision before 24 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6171457