K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Complete Cover Group Ltd (CCG) charged him the remainder of his 
premium when he tried to cancel his car insurance policy.  Hes also complained that he 
wasnt told that a claim  had been  made  against him, and that CCG gave him incorrect  
settlement figures.
background 
Mr T took out his car insurance  policy through CCG  an insurance broker.  In March 2018 
Mr T had an accident and tried to make a claim on his policy. But his insurer explained that 
as the excess was higher than the value of his car, he wouldnt be able to make the claim.
Later in the year Mr T called CCG to cancel  his policy because he no longer needed it. CCG 
informed him that because there  was a third party claim against him he had to pay the 
remainder of the premium. CCG then gave two incorrect quotes to how much he owed. The 
debt was later handed  over to a debt collection agency.
Mr T complained. He feels CCG shouldve told him that a successful claim had been made 
by a third party.  He doesnt  believe  he was at fault and so doesnt want to pay the remainder 
of the premium.
Our investigator explained that any complaint about a claim being made against his policy  
needs to be against his insurer,  rather than CCG. But she did feel that CCG  couldve  done 
better when  communicating with Mr T. She explained that she didnt  feel much impact  was 
caused by CCG  not telling Mr T that a claim had been made against him but she felt it 
shouldve told him the correct premium settlement figure in the first instance   but it had 
made a mistake twice.  CCG offered to pay Mr T £50 compensation for this which  the 
investigator felt was fair. Mr T didnt accept and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons  the £50 compensation  offered by CCG is fair 
and reasonable.
Its important to note here that Im looking at the actions of CCG here when Mr T tried to 
cancel his policy. Im not considering the claim made against  Mr Ts policy in relation to the 
car accident because  this concerns his insurer rather than CCG.
Mr T feels that CCG should have notified him that a claim had been  made against his policy  
 but I dont think it was obliged  to. Whilst it wouldve been helpful for Mr T to know  this  it 
wasnt foreseeable that Mr T would want or need  to cancel his insurance policy later down 
the line. And following an accident it would  be his insurer that would make any decisions 
about a claim, not his broker. So I dont think it had done anything wrong here.
However I have noted that when Mr T tried to cancel his policy, CCG explained hed have to 
pay the remainder of his premiums but gave him incorrect figures  twice.  The actual figure he 
had to pay was actually higher than the two incorrect figures.  I think this wouldve caused  
Mr T some trouble  and upset as he wasnt being  told correct information, and had to then 
Ref: DRN67702842find out hed have to pay more than he was told. CCG has offered £50 for the trouble and 
upset caused  and I think this is fair to compensate for the impact on Mr T.
It does appear that the main part of Mr Ts complaint  is that he has to pay the remainder of 
his premiums  this is standard for an insurance policy  when a claim as been made. And any 
claim decision isnt something  CCG is responsible for. So I wont be asking it to do anything 
further. 
my final decision
My decision  is that the offer of £50 compensation made is fair. If it hasnt already done so, 
Complete Cover Group Ltd must pay Mr T £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6770284