K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. Mr W says Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS   trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr W says that he wasnt  aware that he had taken out PPI. But I think  BoS made it clear that 
Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this as it was so long ago.
BoS has provided a copy of Mr Ws credit card application, and on this I can see that the PPI 
is presented as an optional product, and has been  selected. Mr W has then signed the 
application, agreeing to the information on it.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.  Mr W says that as he 
was living  at home with his parents,  and didnt have any financial commitments, that he 
didnt have a need for the policy. But hes also told us that he didnt  have extensive  sick pay, 
or savings,  to make his credit card repayments, which were his responsibility.  And as the 
PPI was to protect  his credit card repayment, and not any other commitments,  I still think  the 
policy couldve been useful for him.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr W about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN60380132The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6038013