K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about the inconvenience and delays he experienced when he asked 
TSB Bank Plc to give him online banking access and a replacement  card for his current  
account.
background
Mr K has a current  account with TSB and went to a branch to ask for access  to online 
banking and a replacement card. He was told they would  take five to seven working days  to 
arrive but they didnt come within that time.  He then went back to the branch and a card was 
reordered for him.
Mr K complained about the inconvenience  this caused him. He wanted to use the account 
but wasnt able to. He said that hed had to pay for parking to go to the branch. But Mr Ks 
complaint wasnt initially  responded to. He called TSB but it couldnt find a record of it. 
Mr K did eventually receive a card for his account, but he lost it and another  one needed to 
be ordered. Although he did receive that card, it had an expiry date that was too far in the 
future so another card needed to be sent to him. Mr K also had problems when he asked for 
a new PIN but a PIN reminder was sent instead.
TSB apologised  for the problems Mr K had experienced. It paid him compensation of £25 for 
his inconvenience  and £38 for his travel and phone expenses.
But one of our investigators  didnt  think  this went far enough. She said Mr K had been  left 
without access to a card for his account  for over a month. She took into account the impact 
of the situation  on Mr K and the lack of service hed received  and said that TSB should 
increase the compensation amount by a further  £75.
TSB accepted the investigators findings but Mr K felt that it wasnt  enough for the 
inconvenience hed been caused.  He said hed made 36 phone calls to TSB and had spent  
at least 11 hours on the phone  to it. He said TSB continued to make  mistakes;  he needed  to 
wait each time a new card was ordered  for him and wasnt given any timescales for his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ks strength of feeling  and frustration about  whats  happened, when he 
wanted to be able to have  a usable card and access to online banking for his current  
account.
Looking at the history  of when cards have been  ordered for him, it doesnt seem  that one 
was requested when  he visited the branch in March 2019 but its not clear  why this was as 
there are no related records of this. I can see that this is what led to Mr Ks original 
complaint.
Ref: DRN61344182And then,  after unfortunately losing the card he did receive, Mr K experienced further  
problems in getting a replacement. And, although I understand that he did received  a card 
which hes been using  since  the start of July 2019,  Mr K was told he needed to visit a branch 
again to resolve  an issue  in setting  up a mobile payment service  with it.
Mr K needed  to call and speak to TSB a number  of times about this matter in order to try and 
resolve the problems  with his card and PIN. Hes provided us with some of his mobile  phone  
billing to demonstrate  this. 
Although I can fully understand that this matter has caused Mr K stress  and inconvenience, 
the statements  hes sent suggest  that these calls were made using his inclusive minutes, so 
without a specific charge  being applied to them.
TSB has already paid Mr K a total of £63 for his inconvenience and expenses.  Taking 
everything into account, I agree that a further payment of £75, making a total amount of 
£138, fairly recognises the trouble Mr K was put to in order  to be able to use his current  
account as he wanted.
my final decision
My decision  is that TSB Bank Plc should pay Mr K £75, as it has already agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6134418