K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Ageas  insurance Limited  has unfairly accepted  liability  under his motor  
insurance policy for him causing damage  to another car.
background
In May 2018  a third party reported  that Mr M had damaged his car. Both Mr M and the third 
partys vehicle (TPV) were parallel  parked  on a street. The third party  said Mr Ms front 
bumper had scraped  the rear bumper of his car as he was parking behind  him. Mr M strongly 
denied that he had caused the damage.
Ageas sent an engineer to assess the damage. The engineers report  noted Mr Ms car had 
a lot of pre-existing  damage all over it. He said he couldnt  be certain, but he thought it was 
most likely Mr M did cause the damage to the TPV.  So Ageas settled the claim as a fault 
claim on a without prejudice basis. 
Mr M complained to our service but our investigator  didnt think Ageas had done anything 
wrong. He said he thought Ageas  had made  a reasonable decision to settle the claim based 
on the engineers  report.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said his car couldnt have scraped the TPV in the way that the 
engineer had described. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to not uphold this complaint  
and Ill explain why below.
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats  the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer has carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the 
evidence and made a fair and reasonable decision.  Under the terms of the insurance policy, 
Ageas is entitled  to defend or settle  any claim  on Mr Ms behalf. And it can admit liability for 
any accident or claim. That means  it might  make a decision  Mr M disagrees with but it is 
allowed to do so. But it must exercise  this right fairly and reasonably.
Ageas agreed  to pay for the damage  to the TPV as the engineers  report concluded it was 
most likely Mr M had caused the damage. The engineer didnt think the damage  at the front 
of Mr Ms car matched the height of the damage  to the TPV.  So he ruled  this out as being 
the cause of the damage. But he thought  there was damage on the side of Mr Ms car 
consistent in height and width  to the damage  to the TPV. And he thought the side of the car 
could have scraped  the TPV when  parking,  causing the damage to it.
Ref: DRN66443512I appreciate Mr M strongly disagrees with the engineers findings. And he says this damage 
was caused before when his car scratched against  a wall when it skidded on snow. Hes 
said if he did hit the TPV,  he wouldnt have left his own car behind it that night. He also says 
the photographs of the scrapes show it couldnt  have  been his car that caused the damage.  
He doesnt think  a reversing manoeuvre would have meant  the side of his car made  contact 
with the rear corner of the TPV.  But Im satisfied that Ageas has considered  Mr Ms 
comments before deciding to settle the claim.
I accept its possible that Mr M didnt cause the damage, but having looked at everything,  I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Ageas to decide that it wasnt willing to incur  further  costs  
in defending the claim.  Ultimately Ageas concluded  that there were no independent 
witnesses to what happened,  and it used its experience of similar incidents and it didnt think 
it would  succeed  if the matter went  to court. I cant say that this was an unreasonable  
conclusion. 
Ageas settled this claim on a without prejudice  basis. This means that, if he wants  to, Mr M 
can pursue the matter  in court himself.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6644351