K820x#14complaint and background
Mrs S complains she was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  policy when she 
took out a mortgage, in 1997.  She says the PPI was mis-sold.
Scottish Building Society says that although  it was the lender, it did not sell the PPI. It says 
that it was sold by a third party  (the Third Party).
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 27 February 2019, which  is attached and 
forms part of my final decision.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Mrs S and Scottish Building  Society  have confirmed 
that they have  received my provisional  decision. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding Mrs Ss case.
I note Mrs S does not accept my decision and maintains that even though  the sale took 
place in the Third Partys  office, the Third Party was acting on behalf of Scottish Building 
Society. But neither  Scottish Building Society nor Mrs S has presented  anything  new for me 
to consider, and I dont  see any reason  to go behind my findings  in my provisional decision. 
So, Im not going  to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above and in my provisional  decision, Im not satisfied that Mrs Ss policy  
was sold by Scottish Building Society. And I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint against it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision 
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63344312Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint and background
Mrs S complains she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  when she took out a 
mortgage, in 1997. She says the PPI was mis-sold.
SBS says that although it was the lender,  it did not sell the PPI. It says that it was sold by a third party  
(the Third Party).
Our adjudicator considered  the question of who was responsible for this complaint and concluded that 
SBS did not sell the policy. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with our adjudicators view, and said that even though the sale took place in the 
Third Partys office, the Third Party was acting on behalf of SBS. She has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision on this complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to decide is whether SBS is responsible for the sale of the PPI. If I decide  it is, 
then I next need to decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve.  If I dont think SBS was 
responsible for the sale of the PPI to Mrs S, then I cant consider this complaint against it.
Taking all the evidence and submissions into account,  including  the documentation from the time of 
sale  Im minded to conclude that SBS didnt sell this PPI to Mrs S. I say this for the following 
reasons.
Ive looked at the evidence provided, including  the completed mortgage and PPI application form and 
mortgage offer carefully.  Mrs S and SBS both agree that the PPI was sold by the Third Party at the 
Third Partys office. But, Mrs S says that the Third Party was acting on behalf of SBS when it did so. 
SBS says that the Third  Party wasnt acting on its behalf when it sold the PPI. I can see on the 
mortgage and PPI application the branding of SBS.  But this doesnt mean  that SBS arranged the 
mortgage or the PPI  it simply confirms that it was the finance provider. I also note on the Mortgage 
Offer that there was a special condition of the offer outlining that the application was introduced 
through a third party.
Ive considered the possibility that the Third Party may have simply introduced Mrs S to SBS and that it then 
sold the PPI. But I havent  seen any of the kind of evidence that could typically  suggest that SBS sold this 
policy  for example, something to show it contacted Mrs S to discuss her circumstances and potential  
requirements for protection, or directly  sent her a separate PPI application form. 
Having carefully considered all the evidence  in this case I think it likely  that the Third  Party filled in the 
mortgage and PPI application form with Mrs S following a discussion of Mrs Ss requirements  and a 
recommendation to take out the PPI. And having carefully considered the evidence,  I have seen no 
evidence to make me think that the Third Party was acting on SBSs  behalf.  
So, Im not satisfied that SBS sold the PPI. And I dont  think it was responsible for making sure the 
sale happened as it shouldve.  So Im intending not to uphold this complaint against SBS. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S.
Ref: DRN63344313my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Scottish Building Society is not responsible for this PPI sale so I do not 
intend to uphold the PPI mis-sale complaint  against Scottish Building Society.
I now invite  Mrs S and Scottish Building Society to send to me any other evidence they think  I should  
see - but have not already  seen - before  I make my final decision.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6334431