K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC, when it was trading as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester (C&G) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank  is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs R took out PPI when they arranged  additional  borrowing on their 
mortgage. The policy protected their monthly repayments in the event that Mr R was out of 
work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs R took out some further  borrowing on this account later on. But it doesnt  look as 
if they bought  any more  PPI. So in my decision Im just concentrating on what happened 
when they were sold PPI in 2003.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs R 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened.  
Mr and Mrs Rs main complaint is that PPI was sold to them  without their knowledge  or 
consent. They told us that when they took out the PPI time was short and they simply signed 
the paperwork as directed  by the Lloyds  staff member. They  say that at no time were they 
advised that the repayment included a premium  for PPI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Theres a section on their loan application  that asks if they want  to have PPI. There were 
options on the form to say if they wanted to apply for PPI  or not. So I think  Mr and Mrs R 
wouldve seen that it was up to them to say if they wanted to have  PPI. 
Theres a tick in the box next to where  it says:  I wish to apply for C&G Payment Protection 
Plus cover. If this wasnt something they wanted  Mr and Mrs R couldve ticked the option 
next to this to say they didnt wish to apply  for PPI - this is left blank on the form that 
Mr and Mrs R signed. Or they couldve left both boxes blank. 
Mr and Mrs R have signed  this completed loan application form at the end.
Ref: DRN67587362They also filled in a separate PPI application to take out the insurance. I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs R probably wouldve talked about  this as they had to choose  how they wanted to 
share the cover between  them.  They  indicated  on this form that 100% of the benefit  should 
cover Mr R. He signed the declaration at the end of the completed form to confirm he met 
the requirements to qualify for the policy and agreed with the information set out in the 
application.
I accept that these forms may have been completed by the staff member  at Lloyds. But, 
I think its likely that this was done  as a result of a conversation with Mr and Mrs R and the 
information on the form reflected their wishes at the time. By signing each application form 
they were agreeing to the information on it. I think its unlikely that they wouldve signed  up to 
such a significant  financial commitment,  due to run for a number of years, without first 
checking the paperwork carefully to make sure the information on it was correct. So what  
they say about  the way the information  was put on the form isnt enough on its own for me to 
be able to uphold  their complaint that Lloyds  mis-sold them PPI. 
As this happened so long ago, its easy to understand how Mr and Mrs R couldve  forgotten  
some of these details now. And I cant be sure what was discussed between  them  and 
Lloyds when they took out the PPI. But, looking at the paperwork they completed, I think 
Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs R aware  that the policy was optional and they agreed to the PPI.
Although Mr and Mrs R were both in work and contributing towards paying the mortgage it 
looks like Mr R was the main earner. So I can see why Mr and Mrs R mightve  been  
concerned to protect his income.  And I dont think it was inappropriate that the cover was 
just in Mr Rs name
Lloyds said it advised Mr and Mrs R to have PPI. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr R was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions 
that applied.
Ive taken into account that Mr R told us he was self employed and so he had no other 
means to rely on if he wasnt able to work. Ive looked very carefully at the circumstances 
under which a self-employed person could claim on this policy.  And having  done so I dont 
think they are onerous  it wouldve been  no more difficult for Mr R to claim than it wouldve 
been for an employed policy  holder.  
PPI wouldve  covered their mortgage repayments  plus some extra for household bills and 
other expenses if Mr R was too sick to work.  Also the policy wouldve paid out if he became 
unexpectedly unemployed. Repeat  claims were  possible giving Mr and Mrs R long term 
cover for their mortgage.
Even if Mrs R was able to continue working, I think losing Mr Rs more substantial  income 
wouldve had a significant effect  on their joint finances. So, I think PPI provided  a useful 
benefit in what  wouldve  been difficult circumstances for Mr and Mrs R if theyd needed to 
make a claim and the policy was suitable  for them.
Ref: DRN67587363It doesnt look as if Mr R was affected  by any of the main conditions that mightve limited the 
policys benefits to him. So, even if not everything  was mentioned, I think it unlikely that 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr and Mrs R off 
taking it out.
Their home  wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  So, 
I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to have at the time  even if theyve  forgotten  
this now. 
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think they chose to take out the policy,  when they couldve 
said they didnt  want to, and so it appears  to me they did want to have this type of cover.  Ive 
seen nothing that suggests  this policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs R when they signed 
up to it. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back  to Mr and Mrs R some of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs R paid for the PPI they had with 
this mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6758736