K820x#14complaint
Ms M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
Ms M has been represented throughout her complaint.
background
Ms M applied for a store  card in 2001. At the same time she was sold PPI. 
Ms M complained that the PPI policy had been  mis-sold. FICL disagreed. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Ms M owed  on her store card and it protected 
Ms Ms store  card monthly repayments  if she couldnt work because  of an accident or 
sickness or if she lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Ms M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms Ms credit agreement  had a section for PPI, amongst other optional features. There  was 
a box Ms M could sign if she wanted  PPI, or which she could leave blank if she didnt want it. 
Ms M has signed for PPI. 
Ms M says that the adviser filled in the form and she was told to tick the box and sign 
requesting PPI in order to obtain the store  card. Ms M feels this indicates she was 
pressured. But looking at the form, overall  there  were other  features which havent been  
chosen. So if PPI was something that Ms M wasnt sure of  given that the other features 
hadnt been chosen, I think  it would  have been  reasonable that it is something that she 
would have queried at the time if she didnt  want it. 
Overall I think  it was clear Ms M had a choice about  buying the PPI, and she chose to take it 
out.
It was up to FICL to provide Ms M with clear  information about  the policy so she could 
decide if she wanted to take it out. Ms M was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt  look as if 
she was affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
Ref: DRN66862112Ms M has told us, that at the time of taking out the store card she didnt receive any sick pay 
from her employer if she was unable to work because of an accident  or sickness. 
The PPI policy would  have paid out a benefit  if Ms M couldnt work  as a result  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. It would have covered 15% of what Ms M owed  on the card at 
the point of claiming  and would have carried on paying this amount  each  month until Ms M 
returned to work or the outstanding balance had been cleared.  This could have been a 
useful benefit  at whats likely to have been  a difficult time if Ms M needed to claim.
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Ms M to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But I think  if Ms M had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided she still would  have thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for Ms M  and Im satisfied that 
its likely  she took it out when she didnt have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Ms M off taking out 
the policy, given  her situation at the time.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Ms M all the information it should have done when 
it sold her the policy, I dont find that Ms M has lost out as a result  of anything that FICL did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6686211