K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Ms F complain that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) blocked  a payment, leading to 
financial loss. 
Mr D complains on behalf of them both.
background
Mr D wanted to make a payment of around  £85,000  to his son who was overseas. He 
wanted to pay the money to a foreign exchange company first so he could secure a specific  
exchange rate. 
He contacted Santander and explained  he wanted to make one payment for the full amount. 
He was told he didnt  have the correct  credentials to make the payment via telephone 
banking, but that he could  do it online in smaller  blocks of £20,000 at a time. 
Mr D did this but noticed that the full amount hadnt  left his account.  He called Santander 
and was put through to the security team who advised that checks were  being carried out. 
The advisor said once  the checks had been done  the remaining payment would be cleared, 
which was likely to happen later that day or the following morning. Mr D explained that he 
needed the full amount to go through by the following  morning otherwise he would risk losing 
money. He spoke with a number of staff members,  including managers, who all explained 
the same  thing to him. 
The issue  wasnt resolved  that evening as the necessary department had left for the day. 
And when  Mr D spoke with an advisor  he was told the account had been blocked.  He was 
transferred to the security team again  and expressed his concerns with the service provided.  
He was told the funds would be transferred by close  of business the following day. 
The following  morning Mr D had a number of conversations with Santander  regarding  his 
outstanding payment. He was asked to provide  proof of entitlement  to the funds received 
and again stated that he needed the money  transferred as quickly  as possible. He was told 
once the documents had been reviewed the block on the account would be removed. 
The full amount went through three days after Mr D made the separate  payments. Mr D was 
unhappy with the amount of time hed spent sorting the issue on the phone  and the service 
provided. 
Santander explained they were entitled to carry out the checks.  However they did recognise  
they couldve handled the calls better, and offered Mr D £150 for the stress and 
inconvenience caused. They also offered to cover the cost of Mr Ds calls upon receipt of a 
bill.
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought the complaint to our service but our investigator didnt feel 
Santander should offer any more. He explained  they were  within  their rights to carry out the 
checks and he agreed with the amount  offered as compensation. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this - he felt he shouldve been told about the checks  or that he 
could send the payment in one transaction. He also felt Santander  shouldve  been clearer 
about the process and he was unhappy  with the further issues he had after the block  had 
been removed.  
Ref: DRN67432172Mr D also explained that the matter had caused him great distress and loss of sleep. He said 
he needed to cancel an operation as he wasnt fit enough to have it. He also said the matter  
caused him to drop his phone, damaging it. 
Because Mr D didnt accept our investigators  view, the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide is whether Santander shouldve  acted  any differently when processing 
Mr Ds payment. 
Page 11 of Mr Ds account terms and conditions say: 
(There may be a delay  in processing the payment  while  fraud prevention checks  take place. 
We may need to contact  you if we suspect that a payment is fraudulent) 
Mr D wanted to make the payment in one transaction, but this wasnt  possible as he didnt 
have the correct credentials to make the whole payment over the telephone. These had 
been sent to Mr D a few years ago, but were never activated. For this reason he made the 
total payment  in smaller  chunks through internet  banking.
Santander have  explained that when Mr D made  the payments they were flagged  on their 
automated fraud detection system. I understand Mr Ds frustration, as I know he wanted the 
money to be sent at a specific time so he could benefit from a preferable  exchange  rate once 
the money reached its destination with the foreign exchange company. However these 
checks are carried out in the interest of the consumer for security purposes  to make sure 
payments are genuine and not fraudulent. So I cant say Santander did anything  wrong  in 
carrying out the checks, and because its difficult to predict what transactions  might be 
caught by fraud prevention measures in place, I agree that Santander wouldnt have been 
able to tell Mr D they would definitely happen. 
I can see the block on the account was removed the day after Mr D attempted  to make  the 
payments, although  they didnt all go through until a few days later. I understand this is 
because Mr D had to make one of the payments again due to it not leaving his account.  So 
there was a slight delay  here while Santander sorted out the problem at their end.  
Having listened  to most of the calls Mr D had with Santander, I agree the service  he received 
over the telephone couldve  been  better at times.  I also think  that while  Santander werent 
able to say for certain that checks  would be carried out, they couldve warned Mr D that it 
was a possibility.  However even if theyd done  this, I dont think  Mr D wouldve done 
anything different. I say this because Mr D needed the money  to be somewhere else within  a 
short amount of time, meaning his options were limited.  
Santander have  offered  £150 in recognition of the fact they could have handled things 
better, and I think thats fair. I know Mr Ds payments  didnt go through  at the exchange rate 
Ref: DRN67432173he wanted, but I havent seen anything to show that theres been  any financial loss with the 
payments going  through a few days later. 
I can understand why Mr D wouldve been frustrated  with the process  and Im sorry to hear it 
caused him so much  distress.   Im also sorry to hear that Mr Ds phone  was damaged due it 
being dropped,  but I dont think I can place the blame on Santander for this happening. On 
balance, and overall, I feel the offer of £150  is fair and I wont  be asking Santander to pay 
anything more. 
Santander did offer to cover the cost of Mr Ds phone calls  however I cant  see that a 
phone bill has ever been provided, so I cant  specify what should be paid for the calls.  If Mr 
D wants to send Santander a copy of his phone bill, I feel it would be appropriate  for 
Santander to cover those  costs. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.  
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6743217