K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
background
Mrs and Mr C arranged a mortgage with Halifax in 1991. At this time a PPI was set up that 
covered Mr C only. It would have paid a benefit  of £450 a month for up to 12 months  if Mr C 
made a successful claim for unemployment and for up to 24 months for any successful 
claims for an accident or sickness. 
In 2005 Mrs and Mr C arranged a new mortgage  with Halifax.  At this time their previous PPI 
policy was cancelled and a new policy set up. This again covered Mr C only.  It would have 
paid a benefit of £618.14 a month for up to 12 months if Mr C had made a successful  claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs and Mr Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
1991 sale
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mrs and Mr C and Halifax.  During that meeting 
Halifax shouldve made Mrs and Mr C aware  they had a choice in buying the policy. Mrs and 
Mr C say nothing was mentioned about  the PPI. 
Halifax has provided copies of Mrs and Mr Cs mortgage documents   including copies of 
their PPI and mortgage application forms. 
On the mortgage  application form there  is a section for the PPI which asks applications to 
enter an amount  they would like to be covered for if they wish to take out the policy. On Mrs 
and Mr Cs form £450 has been  entered. The separate PPI application form has then been 
completed with some  details about how much cover is required and some  basic questions 
about Mr Cs employment and health  at the time. 
I think the information on both forms suggests that a discussion took place between Mrs and 
Mr C and Halifax about PPI and they chose  the benefit amount that best suited their 
circumstances at the time. And based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like 
this at the time I think its likely the optional nature wouldve been made clear. Mrs and Mr C 
have signed both forms so I think they wouldve had the opportunity to question  anything 
they hadnt agreed to or were unsure about  before they did. 
Ref: DRN68635252So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mrs and Mr C they had a choice 
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mrs and Mr C. So it had to take reasonable steps to 
check it was right for them. 
Looking at Mrs and Mr Cs circumstances  Mr Cs in particular as the policy was split 100%  
to Mr C and 0% to Mrs B  they seem to have had a need  for the cover. Mr C wasnt affected 
by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr C says he had good sick pay benefits  from his employer. And given the length of time 
hed worked for his employer at that point, I think he would have entitled to redundancy pay. 
But the policy wouldve  paid out alongside  these  benefits. And although they say they had 
saving they couldve  used to make their repayments, having the PPI would have meant they 
couldve used those  savings to cover other things if Mr C was unable to work for any reason. 
So it seems  they had a need for the policy. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mrs and Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But Mrs and Mr C chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of cover.  And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mrs and Mr C off taking out the cover.
2005 sale
This policy was also sold during  a meeting between Mrs and Mr C and Halifax.  Again during 
that meeting Halifax shouldve  made Mrs and Mr C aware they had a choice in buying the 
policy. Again  Mrs and Mr C say the PPI wasnt mentioned. 
Neither Halifax nor Mrs and Mr C have much paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising.  But it does mean  I have  limited information about  the sale,  so I have to 
decide what I think is likely to have  happened, given the information I do have and the 
broader circumstances.
Ive seen a screenshot of Halifaxs records which shows  it asked  Mr C a series  of questions  
checking whether  he was eligible for the policy  and also recorded his answers. I think  this 
suggests that a discussion  took place between Mrs and Mr C and Halifax about PPI  and 
based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies  like this at the time I think  its likely the 
optional nature wouldve been made clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mrs and Mr C they had a choice 
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it.  
Halifax also recommended this policy to Mrs and Mr C. So it had to check it was right for 
them. 
Ive considered their circumstances in 2005 and Mr C wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limits on this PPI cover. 
Ref: DRN68635253Mr C says he had slightly less sick pay benefits from his employer than he did in 1991 but 
would have been entitled to redundancy pay. But the policy  wouldve also paid out alongside 
these benefits.  Ive noted Mrs and Mr Cs comments that they had savings they couldve 
relied on if Mr C was too unwell to work  or became unemployed.  But having the policy 
wouldve meant they could have used  those savings to pay for other essential costs. So it 
seems they continued  to have a need  for the policy. 
Mrs and Mr C were borrowing funds against  a large and long term financial commitment,  
which was secured on their home. And Mr C was the sole earner. So I think having  the 
security that their mortgage  repayments would be made if Mr C was unable to work would 
have been important to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mrs and Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But Mrs and Mr C chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of cover.  And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. 
From everything Ive been given, it also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mrs and Mr C off taking out the 
cover.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mrs and Mr C some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance  dont apply to certain  
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs and Mr Cs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 these rules  dont apply.  So 
Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mrs and Mr C paid for the PPI they 
had with that mortgage.
I know Mrs and Mr C feel strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Theyve put time 
and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve raised,  
but for the reasons explained above these  points dont change  my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6863525