K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
lent to her. 
background
Miss G took out seven  loans with Sunny between January 2017 and August 2017. Her 
borrowing history is as follows:  
Loan 
numberDate taken Date  repaidPlanned 
number  of 
instalmentsPrincipal  
1 19/01/2017 05/04/2017 6 £200.00
2 01/05/2017 16/08/2017 6 £250.00
3 03/05/2017 11/05/2017 6 £50.00
4 12/05/2017 16/05/2017 6 £50.00
5 20/06/2017 16/08/2017 6 £50.00
6 23/07/2017 18/08/2017 6 £150.00
7 08/11/2017 17/11/2017 6 £150.00
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld in respect of loans 6 and 7. She 
thought the checks Sunny  had undertaken for loans 1 to 5 were proportionate. However, by 
loan 6, she said it would have been  clear  to Sunny that Miss G was persistently reliant on 
short-term lending. 
Miss G accepted that view. Sunny did not agree. It said there was a gap of around three 
months between loans 6 and 7. There were gaps in the other lending  and many  of the loans 
were repaid  early. In Sunnys view, Miss G was not reliant on short  term lending.  
As the parties do not agree with our adjudicator,  the matter has been passed to me to make  
a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss G could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN63463232the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss G could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
As I said above, our adjudicator thought the checks  Sunny had undertaken were 
proportionate up to and including loan 5. As Miss G accepted our adjudicators  findings, I 
havent considered further whether Sunny  lent irresponsibly  in respect  of loans 1 to 5. 
However, Ive looked at the overall pattern of Miss Gs lending  history with Sunny with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have seen  that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. If it was, Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Gs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 6 I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss G was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. She had taken out six loans in around six months. So Sunny ought  
to have realised it was more likely than not Miss G was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Miss 
Gs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss Gs first loan was for £200  and loan 6 was for £150. At this point Sunny ought to 
have known that Miss G was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in 
their income but to meet an ongoing need.  
Ref: DRN63463233Miss G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan 7 was 
taken out almost nine months after the first. It was for £50 less than the amount she 
had originally borrowed. Miss G had paid a significant amount of interest  to 
effectively service  a debt to Sunny over an extended  period.
I think that Miss G lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Gs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Miss Gs ability 
to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ive thought about what Sunny said in respect  of the gaps between  the lending. Having done 
so, I cant say the gaps  were so significant so as to constitute a new chain of lending.  Sunny 
referred specifically to the difference between loans 6 and 7, which was just over two 
months. I think  its important to say that just because Miss G didnt have a loan with Sunny 
for a couple  of months,  it doesnt mean  she wasnt reliant on short-term lending.  
I accept Sunnys point  that Miss G did repay some of her loans early   but she took out other 
loans very shortly afterwards. So I cant say early repayment showed  Miss G was able to 
sustainably repay  her loans. 
With all of this in mind, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 and 7. Sunny will need to 
put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss G paid on loans 6 and 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Miss Gs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Miss Gs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited must  put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63463234
Ref: DRN6346323