K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about a multi-pay loan Inventive Finance Limited (trading  as Ladder Loans) 
lent to him. He says he couldnt afford  the loan.
background
Ladder Loans lent Mr D one loan in June  2013 for £1,500. The loan was due to be repaid in 
18 monthly instalments.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 March  2019 where I set out a detailed  
background to this complaint. Ive attached  a copy of my provisional decision as an appendix 
to this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I reached significantly different conclusions to the adjudicator  and 
so I gave Mr D and Ladder Loans the opportunity to provide further comments before 
making a final decision.  In my provisional  decision,  I explained that I didnt think  Ladder  
Loans did enough before  agreeing to lend to Mr D and had it carried out sufficient  checks, 
its likely  to have found Mr D couldnt  sustainably afford to repay the loan.
Both Ladder  Loans  and Mr D have now responded to my provisional decision  and both 
parties agree with the conclusions I reached. Ladder Loans also provided some clarification 
about the expenses figure  provided  in its file to this service which I referred  to. Ladder Loans 
acknowledges that this doesnt  impact  the outcome Ive reached.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with the conclusions in my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from those conclusions.
Mr D has lost out as a result of being lent this loan and Ladder Loans needs to put things 
right.
putting things right
To put things right, Ladder Loans should:
remove all interest,  fees and charges added to the loan from the outset. The 
repayments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments made 
after the total which exceeds the amount of money  Mr D was given (in other  
words£1,500) should be treated as overpayments;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above overpayments  from the date they 
were paid by Mr D, if they were, to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Ladder Loans to take off tax from this interest.
Ladder Loans must give Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN69837742my final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint  and require Inventive Finance Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN69837743appendix
provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that Inventive Finance  Limited  (trading as Ladder Loans) gave him a loan he couldnt 
afford.
background
Ladder Loans  gave Mr D a loan in June 2013  for £1,500. The loan was a multi-pay loan due to be 
repaid in 18 monthly  instalments of £209.64. Mr D fully repaid the loan in December
2014.
When Mr D complained to Ladder Loans, it didnt  uphold his complaint.  It said it carried out sufficient  
checks and there was nothing within its checks that suggested Mr D couldnt afford  the loan 
repayments.
Unhappy with Ladder Loans response, Mr D referred his complaint to this service where it was 
looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator initially thought  Ladder Loans carried out 
sufficient checks before lending to Mr D and so didnt recommend that this complaint  should be 
upheld. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicator and provided  further information. The adjudicator then 
reconsidered the complaint and thought that Ladder Loans  checks  should  have gone further and 
Ladder Loans  ought to have checked Mr Ds monthly living expenses and regular credit 
commitments. But our adjudicator thought that further checks would have shown that Mr D could 
afford the loan. So they didnt recommend  that
the complaint should be upheld.
Mr D remained unhappy with our adjudication  and said that Ladder Loans should have seen from the 
credit search  it carried out that he had large  debts and should have known that hed struggle  to 
repay. So Mr D asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
As this complaint  remains unresolved, it has been passed  to me  an ombudsman for a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ladder Loans lent to Mr D, these types of loans were regulated by the Office of Fair Trading  
(OFT). Ladder  Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
repay his loans in a sustainable manner. The Office of Fair Trading  (OFT) Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance states Assessing affordability  is a borrower-focussed test which involves a creditor 
assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  or specific additional credit 
commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties.
Section 4.2 of the OFTs Irresponsible  Lending Guidance (ILG)  says:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question.
Ref: DRN69837744We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running  account credit, creditors should  take 
reasonable steps  to assess a borrowers likely ability to be able to meet  repayments under the credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner.
And Section 4.3 says:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid  by the 
borrower:
without  undue difficulty   in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness
over the life of the credit  agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings, without having  to realise  security or assets.
And Section 4.4 defines  undue difficulty as the borrower being able to make  repayments:
while  also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings and;
without  having to borrow  further to meet these repayments.
The guidance goes  on say that repaying  credit in a sustainable manner means being able to repay  
credit out of income and/or available  savings and without undue difficulty.  And it defines undue 
difficulty as being able to repay credit while also meeting other debt repayments and 
normal/reasonable outgoings and without having to borrow further to meet  these repayments.
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and Mr Ds income and expenditure.  With this in mind, in the early stages  of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Bearing all of this in mind,  I think that there are two key questions for me to consider in order to fairly 
and reasonably determine  Mr Ds complaint. These questions are:
1.Did Ladder  Loans complete reasonable  and proportionate  checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay in a sustainable  way? If not, would those checks  have  shown that Mr 
D would have  been  able to do so?
2.Did Ladder  Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about  all of these questions and what they mean  for Mr Ds complaint.
did Ladder Loans complete  reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks  have  shown that
Mr D would have been able to do so?
As stated above, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship, less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable. But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer. I think  that a reasonable 
and proportionate check ought generally to have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required  to make payments for an extended period); and
Ref: DRN69837745the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower 
vulnerability and any foreseeable changes  in future circumstances.  Ive thought  about  all the relevant  
factors in this case.
Ladder Loans  says it carried out a number of checks  before it decided to lend to Mr D. It says it takes  
the income figure given by the customer, subtracts (i) any regular declared (or evidenced) expenditure 
and (ii) an allowance  for general living expenses based upon ONS  figures. We then consider if there 
is sufficient surplus  income to repay the loan. However,
I cant  see that it asked Mr D about his monthly expenses at the time the loan was approved. But in 
the file Ladder  Loans sent to this service, theres a recorded figure  of £285.79  which appears to be 
what Ladder Loans derived  from checking  the Office  of National Statistics  (ONS) living expenses  for 
Mr Ds application and this, as I understand it, is the figure it has used to work out what Mr Ds 
disposable income  was.
But Ladder  Loans hasnt  provided any specific details  about how it worked out the ONS figure  in Mr 
Ds specific circumstances and I get the impression that it expects  us to simply  accept that this 
standard check resulted  in a fair lending decision.
Given Ladder Loans insists  that Mr Ds loan was responsibly lent, it ought  to know  and have 
explained  how it interpreted the information it gathered  and how it led to a responsible  lending 
decision being  made in this case. Without this explanation from
Ladder Loans,  I cant take it as read that this lending decision was fair. Id also point out that the use 
of industry standard  software  isnt in itself demonstrative of the fact that the lending decision was fair.
In this case, this was Mr Ds first and only loan with Ladder Loans and it says it checked his income 
which Mr D declared  to be £2,000. It also said it searched his credit file before agreeing to lend. 
Ladder Loans  has provided  the results of its search into Mr Ds credit file and from what Ive seen 
there were no active defaults  or county court judgements  (CCJs) at the time of this loan.
However, I can see from the results of the search into Mr Ds credit file that Ladder Loans provided 
that there was an entry on the total monthly payments  that were active at the time and a figure of 
£1,589 was recorded against  that. Also, the result  shows that Mr D had 34 loan and instalment credit  
accounts and the total value of these accounts was £2,837. I think  given the results of this search, - 
the total monthly payment  on active loans  was taking a considerable portion  of his income and its 
likely that Mr D wouldve struggled to repay this loan in the circumstances. Ladder Loans should  
have been concerned  about Mr Ds level of indebtedness and should  have wanted to take further 
steps to understand more about his financial circumstances. I dont think it was reasonable here for 
Ladder Loans  not to react  to this information and take its checks further.
Also, although this was Mr Ds first and only loan, I think the 18 month term of the loan and the fact 
that Mr D would be tied into repaying around £2101 per month - a substantial  commitment  - for the 
entire period of the loan should also have led Ladder Loans to go further with its checks. For the 
loan amount  of £1,500, Mr D was due to repay a total of nearly £3,775,  I think given the 
commitment Mr D was about  to enter into, it needed to look to build a clearer picture of Mr Ds 
financial circumstances.  As well as asking him his income, Ladder Loans should  have been asking 
Mr D about  his expenses and taking steps to verify what it was being told by Mr D. It could have 
done this by asking for information  such  as bank statements, copies of bills, or even proof of Mr Ds 
income.
what would reasonable  and proportionate  checks have shown?
1 Rounded up
Ref: DRN69837746As I dont think that the checks carried  out by Ladder Loans went  far enough, Ive considered what  its 
likely to have found had it carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks.
Mr D has provided copies  of his bank statements  from the time of the loan and Ive used this to 
attempt to reconstruct his circumstances at the time, the loan was given. Im not suggesting here that 
Ladder Loans  had to request  Mr Ds bank statements but that is what  Ive used.
Of course, I accept different  checks  might  show different  things.  And just because  something shows 
up in the information  Mr D has provided, doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any checks  Ladder 
Loans mightve carried  out. But in the absence of anything else from Ladder Loans showing what  this 
information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place  considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what  Mr Ds financial  circumstances were likely to have been at the time.
And from what I can see, in the month before this loan was agreed,  Mr Ds income was around 
£2,402.88  this amount  included reimbursement  from his employer  for work related  travel and his 
monthly income. And at the time, his normal living costs  were around £1,080  this included things 
such as his insurance  premiums, bank fees, credit card payments,
mobile phone and food. As I havent seen details about  Mr Ds housing  and utility payments  in the 
period leading up to the loan, I havent been able to take those into account.  But its reasonable to 
believe that he had housing and utility expenses as well.
I can also see that Mr D was borrowing from at least two other short  term lenders. Around the 
time of this loan, he repaid about £1,935 in short  term loans and had over £1,400 outstanding  
and wouldve been due to be repaid during the life of this loan.
Even without  Mr Ds housing and utilities  expenses, these short  term commitments and regular 
expenses suggest Mr D wasnt  in a position  to sustainably afford  the first loan repayment and 
Ladder Loans  wouldnt have  been confident that Mr D could afford the remaining contractual 
repayments over the term. I think  Mr D would have struggled to sustainably repay this loan and 
even though I can see that he managed  to fully repay the loan, Im not persuaded  he did so in a 
sustainable manner. Mr D continued  to borrow from other lenders and I think  he was using these 
loans to supplement his income  which increased his level of indebtedness.
As a responsible lender, Ladder Loans shouldnt  have given him this loan in the circumstances.
Did Ladder Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude Ladder  Loans  acted  unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mr D in
some other  way.
how Ladder Loans should put things  right
As I dont think Ladder Loans shouldve  given  Mr D this loan, to put things right, Ladder
Loans should;
remove all interest, fees and charges added to the loan from the outset.  The repayments 
Mr D made should  be deducted from this amount. Any payments made  after the total 
which exceeds the amount of money Mr D was given  (in other words  £1,500) should  be 
treated as overpayments;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr D, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Ladder Loans  to take off tax from this interest.
Ladder Loans  must give Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN69837747
Ref: DRN6983774