K821x#15complaint
Mr P says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three loans Mr Lender provided to Mr P between  November 2013 
and July 2014. Mr Ps lending  history  is as follows:
Loan one for £400 was taken out in November 2013 and topped up a month  later by £70. 
Mr P had to repay about £587  and he repaid  the loan in full.  
Loan two for £500 was taken out in February 2014. Mr P had to repay £625. He repaid 
the loan in full. 
Loan three for £750 was taken  out in July 2014  and to be repaid in 10 instalments, the 
highest being £262.50. From what I can see, a balance  remains outstanding.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint in part and thought loan three shouldnt  have  been  
given. Mr Lender disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN68805792I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because sustainable is defined as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr Lender asked Mr P for information about his income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr P said he earned £2,200  a month  and his monthly expenditure was £710. 
This left him with a disposable  income of £1,490 a month. Mr P repaid loan one on time and 
so built up a history with Mr Lender. I cant see anything untoward in the credit  checks that 
should then have alerted  Mr Lender to ask further  questions. 
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time and his history with Mr Lender, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr P provided or the information Mr 
Lender shouldve  been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr P was saying. So I cant say Mr Lender was wrong to provide loans one 
and two. 
Loan three was the fourth time Mr P had asked Mr Lender for a loan, including the top up, 
within eight months without any significant breaks  in the lending. This loan required Mr P to 
sustain his repayments over a ten month period. So I think Mr Lender  should then have also 
asked Mr P about his other short-term borrowing to check that he could  meet his 
commitments. 
Mr Lender said it did this. Its provided  a screenshot of the application for loan three. This 
records 0 for Other loans  including short-term  loans. But whats  important is how that 
question was presented to Mr P when he asked for the loan. Mr Lender hasnt shown how 
the question that Mr P was asked was displayed  on the application screen  or whether there  
was any guidance  he might have been  given when answering that question. So I cant  safely 
say that Mr Lender asked  sufficient questions of Mr P to establish his existing commitments  
for short term loans.
Mr Lender also said it asked Mr P about his other  short-term borrowing in a phone call. But it 
hasnt been able to provide a recording of this call for me to listen  to. Previously Mr Lender 
has provided this service with a transcript of a call to another consumer showing the 
questions it asked. I would assume that similar questions might have been posed  to Mr P. 
But these  didnt ask the consumer if they had taken out any loans recently and didnt  ask 
about the amount of existing commitments  they had. 
Ref: DRN68805793I think it would have  been entirely  reasonable  for Mr P to have  honestly  answered these 
questions in such a way that would  have meant  Mr Lender wouldnt have established the 
other short term loans  he was already committed to repaying. So Im not satisfied that Mr 
Lender carried out enough  affordability  checks for this loan.   
     
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan three would most likely have 
shown that Mr P:
Had a number of existing payday  loans  with other lenders.
The due amounts and Mr Ps stated expenditure didnt leave Mr P with enough 
disposable income to meet his repayments for loan three.
So I think that if Mr Lender  had carried out sufficient  and proportionate affordability checks, it 
would have seen  that Mr P couldnt  afford loan three. So Im upholding the complaint about 
loan three  and Mr Lender should put things  right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loan three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan three from Mr Ps credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should  pay Mr P compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6880579