K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about his mortgage  with Skipton  Building Society. Hes unhappy the interest 
rate increased in 2010 and hasnt  reduced  since.
background
Mr G has a mortgage with Skipton. It was originally taken out with the Scarborough Building 
Society, and moved  to Skipton  when the two societies  merged.
Mr Gs mortgage was taken out with a lifetime discount rate  the interest rate would always  
be 1.3% below  the standard  variable  rate (SVR). By 2009, Mr Gs interest  rate was 4.69%, 
but when it moved  to Skipton, he moved from the Scarborough SVR to the Skipton SVR,  
which was much lower. Skiptons SVR at the time was 3.5%,  meaning  Mr Gs mortgage 
interest rate reduced to 2.2%.
Skipton decided that it needed to increase the SVR on its mortgages, and it wrote  to all 
account holders   including Mr G  in early 2010. It increased its SVR from 3.5%  to 4.95% - 
meaning the interest rate on Mr Gs mortgage  increased from 2.2% to 3.65%. 
In 2016, Mr G complained  about the increase in the SVR. He didnt think  it was fair that his 
mortgage rate had increased at that time, and hadnt  reduced  since. Mr G felt he should 
have been given the opportunity to move his mortgage elsewhere.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so it was referred to me for a 
decision to be made.  I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial  thoughts on the 
case. I said:
When Mr Gs mortgage moved from Scarborough to Skipton  in 2009, his interest  rate 
changed, but it doesnt appear that the underlying terms and conditions of the 
mortgage changed.
The new interest  rate was calculated in the same way as previously  SVR less 1.3% 
- but as the Skipton SVR was lower, the effective rate Mr G paid reduced.
In 2010, Skipton took the decision to increase the SVR on all its mortgages.  In Mr Gs 
case, it did so relying on the following clause in the terms and conditions:
Reasons why the Society  may want to vary the Variable Mortgage Rate  
and consequently the Current Rate:
If any of the following apply or the Society reasonably expects it to apply:
i) It is reasonable to vary the Variable  Mortgage Rate  and consequently 
the Current Rate to bring it into line with variations  (whether increases 
or reductions) in the money  markets  or otherwise to reflect conditions 
in the money  markets;
ii) To preserve, increase or reduce margins between interest rates paid 
to investors in the Society and interest  rates charged on mortgage and 
loan accounts  in the interests of the Society as a whole;

Ref: DRN68267402x) If it is necessary to maintain the Societys financial strength for the 
benefit of all its customers
There are other parts to the clause as well, some relating to the conduct of Mr G  
which isnt a relevant  factor here  and others relating to the Societys  financial 
position.
In 2010, Skipton identified a need  to increase the SVR it charged  its borrowers. It 
says that its SVR at the time was low. Some of its borrowers (though  not Mr G) had a 
term in their mortgages that capped the SVR relative to the Bank of England base 
rate, and it charged  the same  rate to all its borrowers.  As a result, its SVR was 
substantially lower than that of most  of its competitors. It suspended the cap, and 
undertook to reinstate it again  if certain conditions were met. It applied the same level 
of increase to all borrowers,  whether  they had the cap or not.
Its explained that it needed  to raise more funds  from its borrowers in order  to 
maintain and improve its overall financial  position.  It discussed the need to do so with 
the regulatory authorities at the time. And, based  on their understanding  of the 
Societys position and the legal and regulatory  requirements at the time, the 
regulators agreed that Skipton could  make this change.
Skipton has provided  us with evidence of its financial position  at the time. Its 
commercially sensitive  information, so Ive decided  to exercise the power our rules 
allow me to receive  information in confidence. But, in summary, the evidence shows  
that Skipton  did need to increase its SVR, and that it didnt increase it by more  than 
was necessary or reasonable  in the circumstances at the time.
Ive set out the relevant  part of the terms and conditions above. Ive taken into 
account the relevant law and regulations. The term could be clearer  in setting  out the 
relationship between the Societys power to increase the rate and the mechanism  
and amount by which it would  do so. But Ive also noted that Mr G wasnt subject to 
an early repayment charge. Skipton  agreed  that all affected borrowers  could move  to 
other lenders without  any exit fees if they werent  happy with the change. So there 
were no barriers to exit. And even after the rate rise, Skiptons SVR was in line with 
the SVR rates of other lenders, and the rate Mr G paid was lower than the rate he 
was previously paying with Scarborough. 
I dont think it was unfair for Skipton to increase the SVR when it did. And I note that 
its undertaken to reinstate the SVR cap when certain conditions are met, conditions 
which were agreed with the regulators  at the time.  As this goes beyond  what  its 
required to do under the terms  and conditions, I think  this is fair. Those conditions 
havent yet been met and so I dont  think its unfair  that Skipton hasnt yet reinstated  
the cap in accordance with the undertakings its given.
Mr G says that the increase caused him some financial difficulties. But I note he also 
says this was in around 2013, when he retired  some three  years  after the increase. 
So I think that was as likely to be related to his change of circumstances as it was to 
the SVR increase. And I can see from his mortgage  statements that Mr G didnt miss 
any payments or go into arrears. So I wouldnt expect  Skipton to have known that 
things were difficult for him or to have pro-actively discussed other  options  with him. 
Ref: DRN68267403Mr G was free to ask for a different interest  rate at any time if he was no longer 
happy paying the discount rate, but I havent seen any evidence  that he did so.
Taking everything into account,  therefore, I dont think  Skipton has acted unfairly in 
this case. Its shown that there was good reason for it to increase the SVR in 2010. It 
undertook to reduce it again  when  certain conditions were  met, and its shown that 
those conditions havent been met  and that there would  be an impact if it did so 
before then. There was nothing to prevent Mr G asking Skipton to change his 
mortgage to a lower  interest rate, or move  to another lender, but theres  no evidence 
he tried to do either of those things. So I dont think Skipton should be required to 
take any further action now.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Skipton accepted my provisional decision. But Mr G didnt. He said he wasnt  made aware  
he could switch to a different interest  rate and Skipton should have invited him to apply for a 
lower rate. He said his interest rate rose just as everyone elses  fell, which  wasnt fair. He 
had a shortfall on his endowment policy, which he could have reduced if he hadnt had to 
use money to meet  the higher mortgage payments.  When his interest only mortgage  ended,  
Skipton offered him a repayment mortgage at a much lower  interest  rate, so he didnt 
understand why it couldnt have done that sooner. And he said it wasnt fair we hadnt  
shared with him all the information Skipton had given to us. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also re-considered  what I said in my 
provisional decision in light of the responses  to it.
As I explained in my provisional decision I am allowed by our rules  to accept evidence in 
confidence where I consider it appropriate.  Skipton has provided evidence  about its wider 
financial position, which is commercially sensitive and confidential. Its not related  directly to 
Mr G himself, or his mortgage, though it explains why Skipton took wider business decisions 
which impacted on Mr G. Ive explained in broad terms  what the evidence shows, and Im 
satisfied its appropriate  for me to take it into account in this case having received  it in 
confidence. I still think that the evidence shows that it was reasonable for Skipton to take the 
action it did  and I note that while  Mr Gs rate did increase, it was still lower than the rate he 
was paying to his previous lender.
When it wrote to Mr G setting out its intentions, Skipton didnt specifically invite him to apply 
for a new interest  rate, though it did invite him to contact it if he wasnt happy  with the 
increase. There wasnt any obligation  on lenders at the time to invite borrowers to apply for 
new interest rates, and it wasnt unusual that Skipton  didnt do so. More  recently,  wider  
industry good practice has developed  in this area  but thats not relevant to this case.
So I do understand Mr Gs strength of feeling  about  this case. And Ive carefully  considered 
everything hes said. But having done  so, I dont think Skipton has treated him unfairly, and 
so I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN68267404Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6826740