K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained  that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Mr and Mrs H bought  the PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in 1997.  BoS said that 
the PPI sale took place  in a meeting and that it advised Mr and Mrs H to take out the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H said they werent aware the PPI had been added to the mortgage, and didnt 
have a choice  about it, and that the suitability of the policy wasnt  checked and they werent  
given enough  information about it. 
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr H only (Mrs H wasnt 
eligible for the policy as she wasnt working  at the time) at a monthly cost of £7.59. The 
monthly benefit was £150.00. If Mr H had made  a successful  claim, the policy wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, and asked  that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in copies of its computer records of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage account,  along with 
copies of the mortgage and PPI application  forms. It looks as though Mr and Mrs H applied 
for their mortgage through a broker in May 1997, and the application  form shows  that they 
asked for quotes  for the PPI and other insurance  cover. Theres a separate  PPI application  
form signed by Mr H (as the insured) and dated June 1997  so I think this was probably  
filled in in a branch of the bank.
Mr and Mrs H complained  that they werent given a choice about taking the PPI and werent 
aware it had been  added to the mortgage.  As it was sold during a meeting, I cant know  how 
the adviser might have  explained the PPI. But Mr and Mrs H seem  to have asked for quotes 
rather than accept the PPI when the mortgage  application was filled in with the broker, and 
Mr H later signed a separate application form to say he wanted the PPI. And theres nothing 
on either form to say that the PPI was compulsory. So I think Mr and Mrs H were  aware  of 
the cover  and were  most likely given a choice about it - and decided to take it. They probably 
just dont remember doing so after all this time.
From the evidence I have,  I think its most likely that BoS did advise Mr and Mrs H to take 
out the policy, so it shouldve  made sure it was suitable for Mr H. I think it was.
As Ive said,  I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things  not 
covered. But I cant see that Mr H (as the person insured) wouldve been affected by any of 
these. Mr H told us he wouldve been entitled  to 12 months sick pay from his employer, but 
Ref: DRN62605352its not clear how much  of this would have been  at his full pay rate. Mr and Mrs H also said 
that they wouldnt have had any other ways of meeting the mortgage payments if Mr H 
couldnt work. From all this I think Mr and Mrs H couldve  found  it difficult  to meet  the 
mortgage payments  if Mr H was off sick for any length of time or had lost his job. And Ive 
kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  in the event of a successful 
claim, and in addition to Mr Hs sick pay. So overall, I think the PPI couldve  provided  a 
useful benefit  to protect what  was a major commitment.
I can see from the PPI application form that the monthly cost and benefit  were set out 
(although the figures had been amended  to show the monthly benefit (and cost) relating to 
the level of cover that Mr and Mrs H actually  took out). The monthly  premium  was £7.59, and 
Ive no evidence to suggest that cost was an issue. And as Ive said, I think  Mr and Mrs H 
could reasonably have wanted  to protect  an important commitment. 
On balance, although I cant say for certain  that BoS clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Mr and Mrs H would still have bought the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if Mr H had been unable to work. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
and Mrs H paid for it. But BoS has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H 
because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because  BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive concluded that the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so Bank 
of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6260535