K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 19 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr R between  December 
2017 and August 2018. The amounts borrowed ranged between  £50 and £400. Mr R 
borrowed three or four times a month and his repayments overlapped. Loans  17 and 18 are 
still outstanding.  
Sunny made an offer of redress  for loans 11 onwards,  refunding interest and charges and 
removing adverse information  from his credit file. It also offered to waive the outstanding 
balances for loans 17 and 18. But Mr R was unhappy with this. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
the loans from loan four onwards shouldnt have been given. Sunny disagreed  and so the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN60021972Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Sunny asked Mr R for information about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out credit  
checks. He said he earned £1,500 a month. His monthly disposable income  was calculated 
as being between £666 and £860.  
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr R provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr R was saying. So I cant say Sunny was wrong to have approved these  
three loans.  
As our adjudicator explained, by loan four Mr Rs pattern  of borrowing should have alerted 
Sunny that Mr R was having problems managing his money:
Mr R now had four loans outstanding.
This was the fourth time hed borrowed in a month and for an increased amount.
So I think Sunny  should  have realised  that Mr R would be unlikely to be able to sustainably 
repay loans  four and any subsequent loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Rs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
From  loan six onwards Mr R was provided with a new loan within days  or weeks of 
settling a previous  one. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr R 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Rs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr R wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  19 was taken  
out nine months  after Mr Rs first. And it was for a larger  amount.  Mr R had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Sunny  over an extended period.
Ref: DRN60021973So I think the pattern  of Mr Rs borrowing showed that he was persistently reliant on short-
term loans and that these were  unsustainable for him. So I think Sunny  was wrong to 
approve loans  6 to 19. 
I think that Mr R lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Rs ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 19 and I think  Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans 4 to 19, waiving any unpaid 
interest or charges, offset this against  the principal still outstanding for loans 17 and 
18 and pay Mr R the remainder; 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Rs credit file;
the number  of loans taken from 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 19 should be removed from Mr Rs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Rs complaint. I 
require Elevate Credit  International  Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr R compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
Ref: DRN60021974ombudsman
Ref: DRN6002197