K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In December 2002 Mrs L opened  a store card account. In March  2004 PPI was added to her 
account following  a telephone call.
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough  information to uphold the complaint. She relied 
on the fact that the policy didnt cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from 
health problems  the consumer already had when  she bought it. And Mrs L had mentioned 
having health conditions at the time - so if she needed to claim for these, she wouldnt have 
been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt that it was important that Mrs L had understood this so she could make a 
fair choice  about  taking  out the PPI. But she didnt think  that FICL did enough to make this 
policy restriction clear to her - and if it had, then our adjudicator  didnt think  Mrs L wouldve 
taken the policy out.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
It mainly said that she hadnt  originally  mentioned  these conditions and she had also not 
provided any information about  how her medical conditions affected  her ability  to work. It 
said the conditions  shed mentioned were often manageable with prescribed medication. 
So we asked  Mrs L to provide us with a bit more information about  her health and the 
conditions shed mentioned and we asked her how they had affected her in March  2004. 
When we hadnt  heard anything from Mrs L or her representative by the date wed asked her 
to get back to us, the complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Ls completed store card application. The PPI part of the 
form is crossed through, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. 
So, although  I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
to Mrs L from the paperwork that it was up to her to choose if she wanted to have PPI added 
on. And, when she declined it, her store card was set up without it. 
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used when it 
sold the PPI to Mrs L. So I dont know what it said to Mrs L when the policy  was sold.  But 
based on what this service knows about the sales process, and given that the policy was 
added sometime after shed made her store card application, I think  Mrs L wouldve been 
aware that the policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN62883942On balance, I think its likely that Mrs L decided she wanted the benefits that PPI offered and 
she chose to buy the policy to protect  her card monthly repayments.
I dont think FICL advised Mrs L to take out the PPI. This means FICL didnt have to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs L with clear  information 
about the policy so she could decide  if she wanted  to take it out. 
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. So I need to consider if Mrs L wouldve  acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs L told us about  her circumstances. She was eligible for the 
cover. And the policy couldve paid out a benefit if she couldnt  work as a result of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card each 
month until the outstanding balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back  to work. 
Mrs L told us that she had no other way of making  the monthly repayments if she wasnt  able 
to work. So I think Mrs L couldve benefitted  from having PPI.
 
Mrs L wouldnt have been covered  for absence from work caused by a medical condition she 
knew about in the 12 months before the PPI start date. 
Shes told us that she was diagnosed  with one medical condition  some years earlier and this 
was managed with prescribed  medication.  She also had another  medical condition  I dont 
know when that was diagnosed or she first knew about it. She did say that she also had 
medication she could  use as and when needed to deal with those symptoms. 
We asked Mrs L to tell us a bit more about  the conditions  that she mentioned   and in 
particular, if or when they had ever caused her to take time off work.
She hasnt  responded to our enquiries  so I havent seen any information about if or how her 
medical conditions  affected her on a day to day basis prior to taking out the PPI. I dont know  
if or when,  or for how long, shed  ever taken time off work as a result  of the medical 
conditions shes mentioned. 
Based on all the information Ive seen and been told, and looking at the probable policy  
wording, I dont feel that Ive seen enough to be able to say that its likely  Mrs L wouldve had 
reason to be concerned by the exclusion that meant she wasnt  covered for existing health  
issues. 
As far as I can see, it doesnt look like Mrs L was affected by any of the other terms that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to her. So, even if these werent mentioned  clearly, or at 
all, I dont think that knowing more about these policy details  wouldve  made  any difference  
to Mrs Ls decision to take it out. 
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs L to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs L had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought  the 
policy potentially useful.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Mrs L  and she took it out when  she didnt  have to, so it seems  she wanted the 
cover. Plus she could  cancel it without further cost at any time. 
Ref: DRN62883943Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs L, I think it unlikely she wouldve made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance,  I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
In particular, I dont  think having better information about the policys  limitations and 
exclusions for an existing  medical condition wouldve put Mrs L off taking it out. Ive not seen 
enough so far to suggest that at the time she took out the PPI Mrs L had any reason  to think  
shed likely  be off work  sick as a result  of an existing medical condition for long enough to 
want to make a claim under the policy. So I cant fairly say that shes  lost out as a result of 
paying for the policy. 
This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell FICL that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.  
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6288394