K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the way Santander  UK Plc dealt with a chargeback  request he made.
background
Mr J bought a car using  his Santander debit  card.  He says that on his drive home after he 
bought the car, he discovered  faults with it 
Mr J says he contacted  the dealership in mid-December 2018. But it wasnt helpful, and at 
one point it put the phone down on him. He told us his phone calls and emails  were ignored, 
so he wasnt able to make arrangements to return the car, and he still has it in his 
possession. He told Santander he lived a long way from the dealership and needed to know  
that the dealership would accept his return, and get the car he part exchanged back  so that 
he could drive home.
After this Mr J asked  Santander to pursue a chargeback  request.
Initially Santander told Mr J he was out of time to make a chargeback  claim. This wasnt right 
as Mr J had asked it to make the claim within the 120 day period required by VISA (the card 
scheme operator)  for the chargeback application to be eligible. Santander apologised for this 
mistake and paid Mr J £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Our investigator  
thought that £50 was appropriate  compensation for this.
After this, Santander said it wasnt going to proceed  with Mr Js claim because  he hadnt  
returned the car to the dealership. Mr J didnt think that was fair. He says he has provided 
Santander with evidence of his emails  to the dealership trying  to make arrangements to 
return the car. So it isnt his fault it cant be returned.  He also says that Santanders 
chargeback terms and conditions say that he needed to return  or attempt to return  the faulty 
goods  not that he was required to return the goods as Santander told him.
Mr J told us that when  he first complained to Santander on the phone, he told it about his 
difficulties getting  in touch with the dealership to arrange the return  of the car. He said the 
adviser spoke to a supervisor about  this, and he was sent a disclaimer  form which he filled 
in. Mr J says he shouldnt  have been  sent this form if Santander  wasnt going to proceed  
with a claim because  he hadnt returned the car. However, Santander told us that the 
disclaimer form Mr J filled in didnt contain evidence to show hed actually attempted to 
return the car. So it asked  him to do this. But none was received.  The claim was declined  
after this.
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  made  a mistake when it asked Mr J to fill in the 
disclaimer form. He thought the information  in it helped Santander decide whether it thought 
a chargeback was likely to be successful. Our investigator said that the relevant chargeback  
rules are set by the card schemes (in this case VISA)  and not by Santander.  Santander 
wasnt obliged to raise  a chargeback if it thought a claim  wouldnt be likely to succeed. 
Mr J argued the requirement for him to return the car ran contrary  to the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA). He said the CRA puts the obligation on the vendor to recover the goods. 
Our investigator said that Santander wasnt required to help recover the car under the CRA. 
It was only required to help Mr J with a chargeback claim if it thought there  was a reasonable 
chance of it succeeding. So he didnt think it would be fair to hold Santander responsible for 
this.
Ref: DRN67613042Mr J also complained about the customer  service  he received from Santander. He 
complained about delays,  and said that its handling  of the matter lacked care and sympathy. 
Our investigator said that he could see that there were some  delays, but he didnt think they 
affected the chargeback. Overall, he felt Santanders service was satisfactory. Ultimately,  he 
thought that Santander  was entitled to decide  not to proceed with the chargeback  claim on 
the basis that it didnt think  it was likely to succeed.
Mr J disagreed and asked for this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
After the complaint was passed on to me for review, we asked Santander  to get in touch with 
the dealership  to find out what it wouldve done if a chargeback claim had been made. The 
dealership said it wouldve  defended  a chargeback  claim. It also said it had already paid for 
repairs to Mr Js car and had sent him a cheque  for an agreed amount agreed. The 
dealership provided  a copy  of an email from Mr J to it dated 12 September 2019. The email 
said that after the cheque was received and the money had cleared, Mr J will let Santander 
know that the matter  was resolved.
Mr J wasnt clear about why he hadnt told us about the repairs the dealership had carried  
out. He told us he has deposited the cheque now, but he still thinks Santander shouldve 
done more to help him. He thinks that by getting  in touch  with the dealership  when it did (in 
September 2019), Santander  effectively  accepted  it made a mistake when it didnt raise the 
chargeback.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Santanders handling of the chargeback  claim 
Mr J has raised  a number of points in this complaint. However, the crux of it is whether it was 
reasonable for Santander to decide  not to proceed with the chargeback claim.
Ive considered what Mr J has said and provided  about his difficulties making arrangements  
to return the car in December 2018.  I dont  underestimate his frustration about  this. I also 
appreciate that he was annoyed to be told that he was required to return  the car, not just 
attempt to do so. However, Mr J hasnt provided  evidence to show  that he was prevented  
from returning the car, or that he took action  to try to return  it after his initial phone calls and 
emails to the dealership were ignored.
Thats important because  Mr J had no legal right to a chargeback.  Chargeback is a voluntary 
scheme operated  by VISA.  The rules of the scheme are set by VISA,  not Santander. And 
those rules are clear that to raise a claim Mr J shouldve returned or attempted to return  the 
car.
Santander wasnt required  to make or pursue  a chargeback claim if it didnt think there  was a 
realistic prospect of it succeeding. And Santander has told us that it thought there  was little 
chance of this given that Mr J hadnt  taken steps to return the car.
Ref: DRN67613043Having considered the available  evidence, I can see why Santander took the view that a 
chargeback claim would have little chance of succeeding. The dealership  has told us that it 
wouldve defended  the chargeback. Instead it was willing to repair the car and give Mr J a 
cash settlement  something it did without a chargeback claim being made.  And even if a 
chargeback claim had been  made,  I think the claim was likely to have  failed anyway given 
that Mr J hadnt taken steps to return the car, and continued to use it.
Mr J has suggested that by getting  in touch with the dealership when it did, Santander  
effectively accepted it made a mistake when it didnt  raise the chargeback.  I disagree  with 
this. As I said above, Santander got in touch with the dealership in September  2019 because 
I asked it to.
Customer service  issues
Mr J has made a number of points about  the service  he received from Santander. Amongst 
other things,  he says:
he was initially told that he was out of time to make  a chargeback claim.  
he was sent a disclaimer form even though Santander already knew  that he hadnt 
returned the car 
Santander left him to deal with this matter  on his own. Santander delayed matters,  
lacked care and sympathy.
I think that the £50 Mr J was paid was appropriate compensation for initially  being told he 
was out of time to make a chargeback  claim. I appreciate how frustrating  this mustve been, 
and how it contributed to the feeling  that Santander lacked care and sympathy for him. 
However, my role isnt to punish Santander  for its mistakes. And importantly, I dont think this 
mistake changed the outcome of this complaint. As I said above,  I dont think  Santander was 
required to make a chargeback claim for Mr J. And the dealership repaired Mr Js car and 
paid him a cash settlement without a chargeback claim being made.
Like our investigator I understand why Mr J was sent a disclaimer form. This gave Mr J an 
opportunity to tell Santander about  his attempts to return  the car and provide evidence  to 
back up what hed said. It was entitled  to ask him for evidence of his attempts to return the 
car before deciding  whether to make a chargeback claim.
Mr J thinks that Santander shouldve done  more  to help him resolve the matter with the 
dealership. He has told us he shouldnt have  had to go through  what he went  through  on his 
own. I understand that Mr J was distressed  about  the dealerships actions. But Santanders 
role in this matter (as the issuer of the debit  card used to buy the car) was simply to make  a 
chargeback claim for Mr J if it thought there was a reasonable chance  of it succeeding. 
Santander wasnt responsible for helping Mr J resolve the matter with the dealership. Nor 
was it required to represent him, or to help recover the car under the CRA. Thats because 
the CRA  didnt impose obligations  on Santander.
For these reasons I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable for me to require  Santander to 
pay Mr J any more compensation for its role in this matter.  
Ref: DRN67613044my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc doesnt  need to do more to resolve this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6761304