K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that Apfin Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says that Apfin  didnt carry out 
sufficient financial checks before agreeing to make loans to him and, had it done so, it would 
have found out that the loans were unaffordable for him
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan and three instalment loans Apfin provided to Mr M 
between the end of 2017 and early 2018. The first loan was set up to be repaid in one 
payment and the instalment loans  were set up to be repaid over three months. Mr Ms 
borrowing history is set out below.
Loan     Date Taken    Date Repaid    Instalments         Amount        Repayment
1 13/11/2017 24/11/2017 1 £        100.00£        119.86
2 27/11/2017 27/11/2017 3 £        100.00£          45.40
3 17/12/2017 24/01/2018 3 £        294.00£        155.93
4 24/01/2018 not repaid 3 £        299.00£        152.47
Apfin didnt  accept that the loans were  irresponsibly given to Mr M. But it offered  to accept 
different payment terms for the fourth loan. And it said that it would  remove  any data relating 
to this loan from his credit file once it had been  settled.  Mr M didnt accept that offer.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt that given the loan amounts, what  was 
apparent about  Mr Ms circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, it wouldnt 
have been proportionate  to ask Mr M for the amount of information needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. He also said that there  wasnt  anything  in the information Mr M 
provided or that Apfin  should have been  aware of, which meant it would  have been  
proportionate to start verifying what Mr M was saying.
Mr M didnt  agree so that matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Apfin needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Apfin  should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN68856572the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Apfin was required to establish  
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Im satisfied that Apfin carried out proportionate  checks about Mr Ms circumstances before 
making each loan.
Apfin has told us that it asked Mr M for his monthly  income and expenses at the time of each 
loan application.  It recorded these as about  £2,000 and up to about £1,500 respectively on 
each occasion.  Im satisfied that, in the circumstances of this case, it was fair and 
reasonable for Apfin  to conclude that these  figures indicated that the loans were likely to be 
affordable.
Mr M told this Service that Apfin  should  have looked  into his circumstances  in more detail 
before lending to him. He says had it done so, it would have found out that he spent a 
substantial amount of money each month on other  financial  commitments  and other  
spending.  Mr M has provided his credit  file and bank statements which  support this. 
Apfin also carried out credit checks and has provided the full results of these. I am not sure 
how Apfin interpreted  the detail  in these reports.  But had it carried out, what I consider  to be, 
proportionate investigation of the detail in them, I find that nothing  would have been  revealed 
to indicate that Mr M might not be able to make the loan repayments sustainably. Mr M did 
have a relatively substantial amount of defaulted  debt, but from what I can see he hadnt 
defaulted in the 12 months prior to applying to Apfin for credit. And, although  he was 
borrowing from other payday lenders, it wasnt to the extent that I think  Apfin  ought  to have 
Ref: DRN68856573been concerned  about  his ability to repay its loans.Ive also considered  the number of loans 
and the period of time over which they were  taken. And I didnt find anything  here which 
showed that giving Mr M the loans was likely to be unsustainable or harmful as he borrowed 
four loans over a relatively short period of time
I dont doubt what  Mr M has told us about  his financial difficulties and Im sorry to hear of 
them. But, having  looked  into his complaint, I dont think Apfin would have  or should have 
known enough  about his circumstances that it would have declined to lend to him. So from 
what Ive concluded  above I have no reason to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6885657