K821x#15complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs R took out in 2000. It was added to her 
account shortly after the card had been  set up  most likely during a telephone  conversation.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint  because  Barclays says it recommended  the policy  
to her but I dont think it was right for her. I say this because Mrs R has told us she had a 
medical condition  when she took out the PPI and any claims  for time off work because  of this 
condition wouldnt have  been covered by the policy.
Barclays says Mrs R would have been  prompted to declare any medical conditions she had 
during the telephone conversation where  the PPI was being sold. It says it would have 
brought the exclusion  relating to pre-existing medical conditions  to her attention.  But, apart  
from referring to the codes it should have followed when selling the PPI, it hasnt been able 
to provide us with anything to support this. There arent any call scripts or specific  guidance 
it would  have given  its staff available from the time or a copy of the call recording. 
In any event, as Barclays  says it recommended the PPI to Mrs R, I would have  expected it to 
go further than just telling her about any exclusions that might  affect  her. It should have 
taken into account  Mrs Rs circumstances  when it recommended the PPI to her. If Mrs R had 
a medical condition and Barclays recommended the PPI anyway, I dont think it advised her 
with reasonable  care and skill. And I think its unlikely Barclays  did enough to make it clear  to 
Mrs R that the PPI wasnt right for her. 
I think its unlikely Mrs R would have taken  out the PPI if Barclays hadnt recommended it to 
her. So I think Mrs R has lost out because of what Barclays did wrong.
I appreciate that, based on what Mrs R has told us about her condition,  it doesnt seem that 
she had needed  any time off work  because of it before she took out the PPI. But it appears 
to have been a reasonably recent diagnosis (about two years earlier)  and is likely to be 
something she might be concerned could cause her problems in the future. So had Barclays  
told Mrs R the PPI wasnt right for her, I dont  think she would have  gone  against the 
recommendation and decided  to take it out.
Barclays has also referred to the full policy  terms and conditions  it says would have been 
sent to Mrs R once the policy had been set up. It says she would have been advised she 
Ref: DRN62822172could cancel the PPI within 30 days if she felt the policy wasnt  suitable for her. But its likely 
Mrs R would have relied on the advice shed  received from Barclays   that the PPI was right 
for her  and the information she was given during the telephone  conversation.  I think its 
more likely she based her decision on the things she was told, rather than anything she was 
given.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs R in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out 
PPI. 
A.Barclays should find out how much Mrs R would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs R owes and what she 
would have owed.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mrs R would  have  owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs R paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs R paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs R wouldve owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.If Barclays has already paid Mrs R compensation in relation to the commission and profit  
share it got from the PPI, it can deduct  this from the amount  it now owes  her.
D.Barclays should tell Mrs R what its done  to work out how much  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mrs R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6282217