K821x#15complaint
F, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made  errors  in dealing with its 
application for a bank  account and wont keep to its commitment to do this over the phone.
background
F made an application online for a bank account  in May 2018. Its director lives abroad and 
was told he would need to visit a branch in this country to provide his identification  
documents. He did so on two occasions but after the last visit on 14 June 2018 there was no 
progress with the application. He complained  and was told by HSBC this was a systems  
error and the director was personally paid compensation of £150 for inconvenience. It said 
that F would need  to start the application again but information from the previous application 
would be transferred across.
Our investigator said that HSBC had reported experiencing widespread systems issues  and 
it had not been able to process the application.  It had initially  said it would be able to open 
the account over the phone. This proved not to be possible and it then said the director  
would need to visit a branch in this country  and make the application in person. It offered a 
total of £300 in compensation  for the problems and said that this could all be paid to F, if the 
director had not yet cashed the cheque to him. Our investigator noted that F had said that it 
had been able to make arrangements  still to trade.  He could not tell HSBC what  processes 
to put in place and he said that the offer was reasonable.
F did not agree.  It said it wanted this service to enforce the agreement HSBC  had made and 
said that we should be able to make it put things right. F said that financial compensation 
was not its object here. But that it would otherwise be looking  for compensation of thousands 
of pounds to reflect the lost opportunity.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 February  2020  and I set that out 
below.
I said that we provide  informal dispute  resolution.  And as now in this case  if I as an 
ombudsman made  a final decision on this case and F were to accept it then it becomes 
binding on HSBC. Our investigator  issued a view on this complaint in June 2019  which  F 
accepted. HSBC has not been able to implement  that for reasons which  I said Ill come to. 
So HSBC  has also responded about that too and made a final offer to resolve all the parts  of 
the complaint.
I said I was going  to be taking an independent view. I was not bound to endorse  any offer 
thats been made previously and Im taking  into account everything I knew  about whats 
happened. I knew that a significant issue for F now is that HSBC  has not opened the 
account over the phone as it wanted  and will not consider other options than a branch visit.
background
I set out some of the history here:
-22 May 2018  F makes an online application and is told that it will need the director 
to provide identification at a branch in this country.
Ref: DRN64140242-23 May 2018  the director having been told he does not need an appointment 
travels here and visits two branches.  The first seems too busy  to assist and he goes 
to another branch. The member of staff there seems  reluctant  to accept some of the 
verification as an address document is in a different  language but he copies these.  
The director later finds that the member  of staff said there were discrepancies  and 
had not passed this on.
-14 June 2018- the director  returns  to this country  and visits a different branch and it 
seems the same  identification is accepted  and loaded to the application.
-31 July 2018- the director complains about  previously having phoned a number of 
times to find out what has happened to the application and is receiving messages 
saying it remains outstanding. He is told on this date that there was a technical  error 
and hed have  to rekey  Fs application but the line is disconnected.
-1 August 2018  HSBC issues a complaint response letter  offering him £150  
personally by cheque.  It says he will need to complete a new application online and 
that we can move the available information from your old application to the new one.
-7 December 2018  F sends a complaint letter to HSBC and does not appear to have 
received its letter  of August which is sent again.
-22 January 2019  HSBC issues a final response stating that F would need to 
reapply and that even though we have the data you have  provided  it could  not apply 
that on its behalf due to a systems  error. It said that it would look to transfer the 
identification details  over.
-27 March 2019- F refers its complaint to this service.
-29 July 2019  F accepts the offer then from HSBC that it will continue the application 
by phone and can pay the compensation all to F. And HSBC  says that the 
information from Fs past application  had after the expiry of a set time period been  
deleted absent  the identification documents.
-Onwards- F has a contact point at HSBC  and tries to progress the application. There  
are ongoing technical  difficulties
-November 2019  HSBC says its not going  to be possible to open the account online 
or by phone and F would need to visit a branch to do so. Given  the additional 
inconvenience and that this might  not be acceptable  or practical for F it offers  to pay 
F a total of £300 in compensation.
Id already summarised what  our investigators  said about the offer and why F does not 
agree with this. F really wants an account not compensation and for HSBC to stick to its 
commitment.
my assessment
I needed to think  about what is fair and reasonable taking into account all the information. I 
didnt doubt that HSBCs offer for F to continue its application by phone  was a genuine  one. 
Nor did I doubt that efforts to do so have been  made. Id seen notes  from its technical  team  
stating that for reasons  which cannot  be overcome it had not been possible to do so. And 
that continuing would not be productive. That leaves the only option from HSBC being  for F 
to make a branch  application which would need  to be by the director  not a representative. 
And its said it wouldnt pay the travel costs  for this. It has offered final compensation of £300 
all of which can be paid to F if the director has not cashed the cheque sent to him.
Any award I make needs to be practicable. So I couldnt reasonably  tell HSBC to process an 
application for F online or by phone when  I knew thats just not going to work. F wants me 
instead to endorse  a different process involving HSBC staff dealing with this through a 
branch or a representative for F doing  so. That is outside its normal  process. And I agreed 
Ref: DRN64140243with our investigator that as we are not the regulator  we dont have a role in setting what  its 
processes should  be. I needed also to state  that I didnt see any guarantee that even if an 
application for F does  get to the next stage that it would definitely be successful.  HSBC  
needs to make sure it satisfies all legal and regulatory requirements and also decide that it 
will offer an account.
F has continued to pursue this application  to now and not for example apply to a different 
business despite what I said I was going to agree is poor customer  service. That seems to 
be because in part its been able to arrange  a way for F still to trade.  I didnt know if the 
director of F makes any regular visits to this country given F is registered here. But whether 
he does or not, I didnt  think  that I could expect  HSBC  to make any special allowance for 
where he lives and additional travelling costs. I could reasonably think about  the 
inconvenience of repeat branch visits as I would for any potential business customer.
Taking all this into account I said I was not going to bind HSBC  into accepting an application 
from F in any particular way in future. Its going  to be a matter for F to decide  whether its 
prepared to make the application in the way offered by HSBC. What I was now going to be 
reflecting in my award is the inconvenience caused  to F to this point. That includes the 
difficulties at the initial branch visit, the system errors, what  I saw as misleading information 
about whether  the previous application data was available,  the failure to implement its 
proposed resolution  to the complaint and the ongoing time and inconvenience for F in 
pursuing this. Taking all that together I considered in my provisional  view a fair amount is 
£600. I couldnt take into account what HSBC might  have paid the director  in this award as 
this is not a complaint from him and Im only looking at the impact on F.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it agreed  to pay the compensation. It said that it had already paid F £150 and so 
would pay the further amount if F accepted my decision.
F did not agree  that the compensation was sufficient. It said that it understood that HSBC 
was not going to process its account  application  in the way it said it would. So it has now 
made alternative arrangements. It said that nothing changed in the approach of HSBC after 
May 2018. While  F recalled telling  this service that it could  operate without an account,  that 
does not mean it did so and that there would be no impact. It has not been able to raise 
invoices it otherwise would and had been less active due to the impact on its credibility  of not 
having a bank account. F maintained that it was reasonable for it to rely on what HSBC had 
committed to given  its standing and brand. And while  F had done everything  asked  of it 
HSBC had failed  to act or to prevent anyone else having the same  experience.  The director  
of F had spent time on this and a reasonable estimate including for time waiting on phone  
calls would  be 20 hours. F recognises that compensation is the only way to resolve  this now.  
It stands by its earlier estimates of both actual loss and loss of opportunity  and 
inconvenience which in December 2019  it indicated to this service was £15,000. It is not 
looking to punish  HSBC but says that the amount Ive assessed at the moment  is so small it 
would give no encouragement for any change in practices.
I want to start by addressing that last point and saying that I can only look at the 
circumstances of this complaint and not HSBCs processes generally. We dont make 
punitive awards and I am considering the impact  on F.
Ref: DRN64140244I understand why F expected HSBC  to stick to its commitment. But if it not doing so was 
affecting its business I would have reasonably expected F to do what  it could to mitigate this. 
I understood it was able to keep operating and Ive not seen clear evidence  of any direct 
impact on its trading that could not have  been  avoided. I also dont think that Ive a basis to 
find that HSBC fairly adopted responsibility for any consequences and I dont see a basis  to 
quantify financial loss based on the evidence Ive seen. So Im still going  to be reflecting 
what happened in a payment for inconvenience.
We dont tend to make  allowances for units of time spent on a complaint and if we do that 
would be at a modest  rate. Here  Im looking at the overall impact  taking into account 
everything Ive been told. I appreciate F wants more compensation but Im afraid its not 
persuaded me that this is appropriate here and I have  decided that £600 in total is fair. I 
want to make clear again that this must all be paid to F and any payments made to the 
director cannot be netted from this amount as F is a separate legal entity and is the 
complainant here..
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to pay F a 
total of £600 and this includes anything it has already paid directly to F.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6414024