K820x#14Complaint
Mr O has complained, through a claim management  company (CMC),  about a whole of life 
and critical illness protection policy that he took out following advice from a business  that 
Phoenix Life Limited is now responsible for. 
Background
Mr O took out the whole of life and critical illness policy  in November 1989. The initial sum 
assured of the policy was for just under £14,000  and the initial premium was just under £40 
per month. At the time of the sale the only information available  stated Mr O was married 
and had children.
The CMC has said no alternatives were discussed; that his attitude to risk was cautious yet 
the policy was linked  to the stock market; no assessment was made about affordability  into 
retirement and he didnt life cover.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  He 
was satisfied that Mr O had a need for life cover as well as critical illness  cover  and so 
because of that given when the policy was taken this could really only be provided  to him 
through a whole of life and critical illness policy. He acknowledged that some standalone 
critical illness policies were available  in 1989 but they had only just been introduced and so 
werent widely available so any that were  available would have been very expensive.
The CMC didnt agree with the assessment. It felt there were standalone policies available  in 
1989 and that a term assurance with critical illness would have been more  suitable for Mr O. 
The CMC also felt the attitude tor risk was important. It also referred to a different complaint  
we had dealt with in the Service where it felt the circumstances were similar and the 
complaint was upheld.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Firstly, the CMC should know that this Service considers each case on its own merits, so 
while it has referenced another complaint, in making my decision, I need to consider the 
individual circumstances  of this case alone.
The sale took place  in 1989  so the information  from the time of the sale is very limited.  In 
fact, the only information  I have is, as mentioned above, that Mr O was married with children. 
So, given the lack of information its hard to conduct  a full suitability assessment. However, 
from the information I do have, that Mr O had a wife and children, I am of the view that life 
protection and critical illness policy would have  been  of use to him and his family. The 
payment made under the policy had he passed away  or was diagnosed with a critical illness  
could have been used to discharge any liabilities  or maintain a standard  of living in the 
absence of Mr O being able to maintain his earnings.
Ref: DRN62108422Ive also considered whether the whole  of life policy with the critical illness  cover was 
suitable for Mr O or whether he should have been  advised to take a different form of life 
protection. The policy was taken in 1989  and I know from the research  I have carried out that 
term assurance policies  with critical illness cover combined were not available in 1989.  Even  
standalone critical  illness policies werent  readily available having  only been  introduced 
around this time. So, any that were on the market would have been  very expensive.
Therefore, the only way life cover and critical illness cover could be provided was through  a 
whole of life policy,  as is the case here, or through an endowment.  But an endowment has a 
term to the protection it provides and the little information I have about Mr O indicates he just 
wanted family protection, so I see no indication  that he only wanted  this cover in place for a 
period of time. So, it seems to me that in 1989  the whole of life policy  with critical illness  was 
one of the only ways to provide this protection that Mr O wanted.
I know the CMC has said Mr Os attitude to risk wasnt established  and no assessment was 
made about his ability to afford the policy into retirement. However, the policy  was a 
protection policy and not an investment one, so his risk attitude didnt need to be assessed. 
And with regards to the affordability  issue, while I cant see whether this was discussed 
I think its unlikely in light of what I have said above Mr O would have done  anything  
different.
Therefore, in light of the information  available I am satisfied that Mr O had a need  for life and 
critical illness protection and given  he wanted  this in 1989 the whole of life policy  with critical 
illness was one of the only ways his need  could have been met.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6210842