K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that he wasnt allowed to settle his hire agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS) early  and sell the car.
Background
Mr W entered into a 36 month  hire agreement with MBFS in 2018.  He says he wanted to 
settle the agreement early  and sell the car privately. He contacted MBFS in February 2019 
and was provided with a settlement quote.  However,  when he contacted  MBFS a few 
months later for an updated quote he was told that as he had a hire agreement  there  wasnt  
an option to settle and sell the car. He says that he wasnt told at the start that he wouldnt 
be able to sell the car and had to remain in the lease for three  years.
MBFS says that Mr W entered into a hire agreement and so he was not the owner of the car 
therefore he didnt  have the option  to sell it. It accepted the he had been provided incorrect  
information on a call in February and offered to pay him £50 compensation because  of this. 
It explained that it had previously allowed  leased  cars to be sold to third parties but that this 
policy had changed  in March 2019.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Mr Ws agreement set out that he 
wouldnt become  the owner of the vehicle and that the vehicle would need to be returned at 
the end of the hire period.  He said he didnt have further evidence about  what was said at 
the time Mr W entered  into the agreement. He said that MBFS had acknowledged that Mr W 
was provided with incorrect information on a call in February 2019 and had offered 
compensation for this which he thought was reasonable.  He didnt think  MBFS was required 
to do anything further.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He said that MBFS had a duty of care which 
hadnt been performed and reiterated that he had sold a previous car.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W entered into a hire agreement with MBFS for a tem of 36 months. In doing  so he 
agreed to the agreements terms and conditions. These clearly set out that the vehicle was 
not the property  of Mr W and that he would not be able to sell it. It is reasonable to expect 
Mr W to have read the terms of the agreement before agreeing to them. Based on the 
information in the agreement I cannot say that MBFS has done anything wrong by saying 
Mr W doesnt have the right to sell the car to a third party.  
Mr Ws complaint  is that he wasnt made  aware  that he wouldnt be able to sell to a third 
party when he entered into the agreement and that this option was an important part of his 
decision. 
I can understand why Mr W thought the option  to sell would be available  as he has explained 
his husband had previously entered into a hire agreement and had settled this early and sold 
the car. Given this experience I understand why Mr W thought he would be able to do the 
same. However, I have  nothing to show he was told at the point of entering into this 
agreement that he would  be able to settle early and sell to a third party.
Ref: DRN61690152I appreciate Mr Ws comment  that he wasnt told he would be tied into the agreement  for the 
term and his only option would be to hand back the car. However  the agreement he signed 
set out the key terms including  the duration  of the agreement, the return conditions and the 
right to end the agreement. It explains the car is returned at the end of the hire period. As the 
agreement is clear  in regard to ownership  of the car and the other  key terms I do not find I 
have enough evidence to say a misrepresentation has occurred.
MBFS has explained that its policy changed  in regard  to settling early and selling to a third 
party and that Mr Ws request came after this change. While  I can understand how 
frustrating this must be for Mr W, I cannot  say that MBFS  has done anything  wrong by 
making this change. It is a commercial decision and as the option  to sell to a third party was 
not part of Mr Ws agreement it wasnt a change to his terms and conditions.  As Mr Ws 
agreement didnt include the right to sell I cannot say that by not allowing this Mr W has 
been treated unfairly.
Mr W contacted  MBFS to ask for a settlement quote  in February 2019 to sell the car to a 
third party and this was given. MBFS has apologised for this incorrect  information being 
given and offered  to pay Mr W £50 as a gesture of goodwill. While it is clear  a mistake was 
made on this call, my role is not to punish  MBFS but to recognise the impact of the incorrect  
information. In this case had Mr W been told he couldnt sell the car to a third party at that 
time he wouldnt have  spent time trying to sort this before requesting a revised settlement 
quote. I think that the £50 offered for this inconvenience is reasonable. The misinformation  
didnt change the underlying issue that Mr Ws agreement  was a hire contract  and so he 
wasnt allowed to sell the car privately.
I understand the comments Mr W has made about a duty of care but in this case  I do not find 
that MBFS has done anything wrong,  apart  from the misleading information  given  on the call 
in February 2019  for which it has offered compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that MBFS should,  as it has offered, pay Mr W £50 compensation for the 
upset caused  by the information given in the February 2019  call (if this hasnt already been 
paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6169015