K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that Gefion Insurance  A/S turned down a theft claim on her car insurance 
policy. 
background
Ms C went  on holiday  for the weekend  and while she was away her brother stayed at her 
house. Ms C said while  she was on holiday her brother took her car without permission and 
crashed it. Ms C made a claim on her car insurance policy and reported the theft to the 
police. 
Gefion reviewed Ms Cs claim and declined it. It said her policy  excluded  loss or damage to 
her car if its been taken  by a family member without permission. 
Ms C didnt think this was fair and complained. She said Gefion had originally accepted  her 
claim and made an offer to her, because her car was deemed a total loss. She said Gefion 
had disposed of her car and not paid her for the salvage. She also didnt think  it was fair to 
turn down her claim when  her brother had been charged and convicted for the theft. As 
Gefion didnt change  its position Ms C brought  her complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Ms Cs complaint and recommended  it was upheld. She found that 
while the policy did include  the term regarding family members, she didnt  think Gefion had 
applied it in a fair and reasonable way. Because of this she asked Gefion to pay Ms C the 
market value for her car and £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. 
Gefion didnt agree, it said the policy was clear and that as Ms Cs brother had stolen the 
car, the claim wasnt covered. As Gefion disagreed the complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Ms Cs policy say it will cover her against  loss or damage 
caused by theft up to the market value  of her car. The policy  goes onto say it wont cover her 
for: Loss of or damage to Your Vehicle if it is taken, used or driven without Your permission 
by a spouse or civil partner, partner, boyfriend or girlfriend, member  of the family or 
household of a permitted  driver.
Its not in dispute  that Ms Cs brother fits into this category or that he stole  the car. Ive 
therefore looked at whether its fair and reasonable for Gefion to turn the claim down on that 
basis. 
Its usual for policies to include  an exception that would cover theft by a family member if the 
policy holder reports  the theft to the police. The terms of this policy  dont include that and I 
think this is significant  and unusual. Because of this it should have been highlighted to Ms C 
in the key facts  or summary document. 
Ive reviewed the policy summary  documents Gefions provided and Im unable to see this 
term was highlighted. Ive therefore considered  what Ms C would have done if Gefion had 
highlighted the term to her. Ms C said she would expect an insurer to pay a claim for theft 
Ref: DRN63466892when its reported  to the police and if Gefion had made this term clear she would have 
bought a policy from an insurer which did that. Im therefore satisfied that if Gefion had 
highlighted this term to Ms C before she bought the policy, she would have bought a 
different policy  that did provide cover for theft by a family member when the theft is reported 
to the police. 
Ms C reported the theft to the police, provided a witness statement and assisted  with the 
prosecution of her brother. Because of this hes been convicted of stealing Ms Cs car. So, 
Ms C would have been covered by the different policy that she would have bought  if Gefion 
had made  this term clear. 
I think the fair and reasonable  outcome to this particular complaint is for Gefion to put Ms C 
back in the position she would have  been  in if it had made it clear  the policy didnt cover her 
for theft by a family  member, even if she reported it to the police. That means Gefion 
shouldnt rely on this term and should  pay Ms C the market value for her car, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions to settle  her claim. As Ms C has been  without the money 
Gefion should  also add 8% simple  interest per year to the amount it pays  from the date of 
the theft to the date it makes payment, due to Ms C not having the money  she should have 
had. 
I can see Ms C also complained about the poor claim  handling  and initially being told her 
claim would be paid.  Our investigator  recommended  £100  for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances. 
Ms C has also complained about  Gefion not paying  her the salvage for her car. As Im 
instructing Gefion to pay Ms C the market value for her car this is sufficient to compensate 
her for the loss. This is because if Gefion had paid her the market value initially  then Ms Cs 
car would have become Gefions property. So, Im not going to instruct  Gefion to do any 
more in relation  to the salvage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint. I require Gefion  Insurance  A/S to 
pay Ms C the market value for her car in line with the remaining terms and conditions, 
adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of the theft until the date it makes payment. 
Gefion Insurance  A/S should also pay Ms C £100 for distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Gefion should  do this within 28 days of us telling  it Ms Cs accepted my decision.  If it pays 
later than this it should add interest  to the £100 compensation at 8% simple  per year from 
the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Gefion Insurance A/S considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
Ref: DRN63466893interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken  off. It should also give Ms C certificate  showing  this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6346689