K820x#14complaint
Ms J and Mr E complain  about how U K Insurance Limited  dealt with a claim against their 
travel insurance policy.
 
background
Ms Js bank  account provided travel insurance as an additional  benefit.  
In January 2019, Ms Js consultant told her that she needed an operation,  which was likely 
to take place around the time of a family holiday planned for May 2019.  Ms J and Mr E made 
a claim against the policy for the cancellation  costs of their holiday. UKI initially  declined the 
claim but then agreed to pay it.  
Ms J and Mr E complain  about the way UKI dealt with the claim. Ms J says that she was 
inconvenienced, spoken to inappropriately and shown no sympathy.  Ms J says that shes  
been very upset  at an already stressful time. She says that UKI didnt pay the full amount 
she was expecting it to pay and complains about the excess  it deducted. 
In response to Ms Js complaint, UKI paid Ms J compensation  amounting  to £225 in relation 
to the service she had received. Ms J and Mr E didnt think  that was enough. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said that UKI had deducted the 
excess due under the policy.  The investigator  said the compensation that UKI had already 
paid was fair. 
Ms J accepted what the investigator said in relation to the excess but asked that an 
ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is whether the compensation UKI has already paid is 
fair. I think  it is and Ill explain why.
UKI says that it shouldnt  have declined the claim.  Based on what  Ive seen, Ms J first made 
the claim in late January  2019 and UKI asked her to provide various  documentation.  Ms J 
provided documentation in February  2019 and UKI asked for more in March 2019. Ms J 
explained that she had provided what UKI needed.  In late March  2019, UKI declined  the 
claim. It looked at the matter again and agreed  to pay the claim in early  April 2019. So, there  
was a short delay  in settling the matter as a result  of UKI declining  the claim initially.  
UKI accepts  that some of the service Ms J received was poor and that it hadnt always been 
sympathetic in its dealings with her. I do appreciate that this was upsetting for Ms J at an 
already stressful  time.  Considering everything, I think  that the compensation UKI has already 
paid is fair. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the nature, extent  and duration  of 
Ms Js distress  and inconvenience  caused  by UKIs errors.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms J and Mr E but, for the reasons Ive explained,  I dont uphold  the 
complaint as I think that the steps that UKI have already taken to put matters right are fair. 
Ref: DRN66029092my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms J and Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6602909