K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold him payment protection insurance  
(PPI) alongside three loans taken out in 1999,  2000 and 2001.
background
The loan taken  out in 1999  was for £5,000 to be repaid over five years.  Ill refer to this as 
loan 1. At the same time, he bought  a single premium PPI policy  for £899.82, which was 
added to his loan and, therefore, attracted interest.
Mr H took out a top up loan in 2000 for £7,000 to be repaid over five years. Ill refer to this 
as loan 2. He used some of the funds  from loan 2 to repay loan 1. He bought another  single 
premium PPI policy for £1,238.10 and borrowed extra on top of his loan to pay for it. 
Mr H took out a further top up loan in 2001  for £11,550 to be repaid  over seven years.  Ill 
refer to this as loan 3. He used some of the funds from loan 3 to repay loan 2. He bought 
another single  premium  PPI policy for £3,133.48 and, once again, borrowed extra on top of 
his loan to pay for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold on any of these loans. Mr H 
disagreed with the adjudicators view,  so the case has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Loan 1
Nationwide says it cant be sure how this loan and PPI policy were sold to Mr H. Mr H thinks  
that this was in a meeting.  Given that this was a long time ago and Mr Hs recollection of 
what happened then doesnt seem to be that vivid or detailed,  Ive kept an open  mind about 
how the sale took place. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of the loan agreement which Mr H signed. I can see that the 
PPI is clearly described as optional  on this agreement and details of its costs  are shown 
separately to the main  loan. From this, together with what I know more generally about how 
Nationwide sold PPI at around this time, I think its likely that the PPI would have been 
discussed with Mr H before the loan agreement was produced.  And I think that Mr H would 
have realised that he didnt need to take the PPI if he didnt want to.
Mr H says he was told that he had to take the PPI to get his loan and felt pressurised into 
doing so. And its possible  that the person he spoke to wrongly  misled  him in this way. But I 
dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what is most likely to have 
happened, based only on what  Mr H thinks he recalls now.  And it seems quite unlikely that 
he would  have been misled in this way on all three  occasions when he took out PPI with 
loans.
Ref: DRN64754982So, on balance, I think its most likely  that Mr H actively decided  to take the PPI knowing he 
had a choice,  but I can understand why he might not remember  this now.
Mr H has also said that he wasnt told by Nationwide that he could buy the PPI from another 
provider. But Nationwide wasnt  obliged to tell him this, so I dont think  it did anything  wrong  
if it didnt.
I dont think that Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it 
was suitable for him. But it did need  to ensure  that he was given enough information to 
decide himself if he wanted  to take it. I can see that the costs of the PPI were shown on the 
loan agreement which Mr H signed.  But its possible that Nationwide could have provided 
better information about other important terms and conditions of the PPI policy  than it did. 
But I dont think better  information would have  changed his mind about taking it. I say this 
because:
Mr H appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr H says he was eligible for sick pay from his employer. But this policy  would have paid 
out in addition to this if he was unable to work. It would have paid out for up to twelve  
months if he was unemployed and for the remaining term of the loan if he was off work 
because of an accident or sickness. So it could  have paid out for longer than his sick pay 
would have lasted.  Mr H also says he could have  relied on his wife to provide financial 
support in need. But this policy would have been safer than relying  on his wife and would  
have left her income available  to pay for other essential household expenditure. So I still 
think that Mr H would have valued the extra security  that the policy gave  him.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr H. And the policy  gave a 
proportionate refund of the single  premium Mr H had paid if, as was the case here, he 
paid off the loan early. This means that I dont  think the policy  was unsuitable because it 
was paid for by a single premium.
So I dont  think that Mr H has lost out by anything  that Nationwide  may have done wrong 
when it sold him this PPI policy.
Loan 2 and 3
Nationwide says its records  show that these sales took place over the phone and Ive taken 
this to be the case. Theres no record  of what was discussed on the calls. But, once again, 
Ive seen copies  of the loan agreements which Mr H signed. And for the same reasons I 
gave for loan 1, I think its most likely that Mr H actively decided to take PPI again on these 
subsequent loans, knowing he could choose not to do so. 
I dont think that Nationwide recommended the PPI policies. And Mr Hs circumstances 
appear to have been much the same  on these two sales as they were on the first. So for 
much the same reasons as I gave  for Loan 1, I dont think that Mr H has lost out by anything  
that Nationwide may have  done  wrong when it sold him these policies.
Ref: DRN64754983Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI on Loan 3 to Mr H because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium taken with Loan 3, if it hasnt already done so. Nationwide  
should also pay back to Mr H any extra interest  he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr H the extra he paid each month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Nationwide should  
also pay Mr H 8%* simple interest on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI. 
But Nationwide Building Society should pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium on Loan 3, if it hasnt already done so.
I understand Mr H has been  in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). His IVA 
supervisor has expressed an interest in any compensation  Mr H might  receive.  Mr H and 
Nationwide Building  Society should  bear in mind Mr Hs obligations  under  that IVA in respect 
of any compensation  he gets and make sure it is paid to the right person(s).
A copy of this decision will be sent to Mr Hs IVA supervisor.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6475498