K821x#15complaint
Miss L says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to her.
background
This complaint is about eight instalment loans Satsuma provided  to Miss L between 
September 2016 and March 2018. The loans  ranged in term from three to five months.  This 
is a summary of Miss Ls lending history from Satsuma. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 29/09/2016 03/10/2016 400
2 11/01/2017 26/04/2017 220
3 12/04/2017 26/04/2017 300
4 18/06/2017 26/09/2017 100
5 07/08/2017 26/12/2017 220
6 22/10/2017 26/01/2018 120
7 02/12/2017 - 450
8 20/03/2018 - 110
Our adjudicator thought the loans from loan 5 onwards  shouldnt  have been given. Satsuma 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN65809252the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss L could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
Satsuma needed  to do more when it approved loans 1 to 4. So I dont think  Satsuma was 
wrong to give loans 1 to 4 to Miss L.
However I dont think Satsuma carried out proportionate checks  for loan 5. Had it done so, I 
think it would  have  made a different lending decision. I say this because by loan 5 there 
were clear  signs  that Miss L was struggling  to manage her money.  When Miss L applied for 
loan 5 she already  had six other short-term high cost credit products active  from two other 
lenders. I think this should have suggested to Satsuma that her finances were  under 
pressure. So it was most likely she was just borrowing  to pay off other  loans. And that this 
loan was unlikely  to be sustainably affordable for Miss L. It follows  I dont think  Satsuma 
should have given loan 5 to Miss L.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Satsumas  lending history with Miss L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ls case,  I think that this point was reached at 
loan 6. I say this because:
From  loan 6 onwards  Miss L was provided with a new loan within weeks  of taking  out 
a previous one, and whilst still repaying  it. So Satsuma ought to have realised  it was 
more likely than not Miss L was having to borrow further to cover the hole making her 
previous loan repayments was leaving in her finances and that Miss Ls indebtedness  
was increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN65809253Miss L wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount she owed Satsuma. She had 
taken out 8 loans in the 18 months after her first loan. And there was no sign that the 
amount she needed  to borrow was reducing  her second  to last loan was her 
highest. Satsuma  ought to have  known that Miss L was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. Miss L had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Satsuma over an extended period.
I think that Miss L lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ls indebtedness  by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Miss Ls ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
I have carefully considered Satsumas response  to our adjudicators view. In summary,  it 
explained the checks it had carried out on eligibility,  affordability and credit worthiness. It 
also explained why it doesnt use bank statements in its checks   and I agree it is under no 
obligation to do so but they are one way, amongst others, that Satsuma  could have better 
understood Miss Ls situation.
It argues the payment  history of loans 1 to 6 show no evidence of Miss L having difficulties, 
nor were  there indicators to suggest it should  make  additional checks. But Satsuma was 
required to do more  than check  Miss L could afford each individual loan on a strict  pounds  
and pence basis.  It had to ensure Miss Ls borrowing was sustainably affordable, and for the 
reasons Ive set out above I think from loan 5 onwards there  were  indications this was not 
the case. Rather, it seems Satsuma was unfairly  extending her use of high cost short  term 
credit.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5 onwards, and Satsuma should  put things  right. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss L paid on loans 5 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
if it chooses, apply  the refund to any outstanding principal balance on loans 7 and 8 
before paying  any remaining balance (if there  is any) to Miss L**; and
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Miss Ls credit  file
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse, so all entries about  loans 6 to 8 should  be removed from 
Miss Ls credit file.
If Satsuma has sold the outstanding  debt from loans 7 and 8 to a third party it should buy it 
back before  doing  what  Ive said above.  If this isnt possible,  Satsuma  needs  to make sure 
Ref: DRN65809254that Miss L has paid or will pay no more  in total than the principal amounts she was lent. So 
Satsuma should  (in addition  to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Miss L has already paid to the third party, plus 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
instruct the third party  to remove any information that it may have recorded about the 
loans from Miss Ls credit file.
If Satsuma  doesnt  buy the debt back  then it isnt entitled to make any deductions 
from the amount  that it needs to pay Miss L.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must give 
Miss L a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Satsuma  intends to 
apply the refund  to reduce  any outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after taking  the above steps  there is still a principal balance due, I remind  Satsuma  of its obligation 
to treat Miss L fairly  and reasonably in any settlement discussions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ls complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) should  pay Miss L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6580925