K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Computershare Investor  Services Plcs covering letter  concerning the 
offer to purchase  Thomson Reuters  shares  - was misleading as it didnt mention that non-
Canadian residents would  be subject  to a Canadian  withholding  tax. If hed been made 
aware of this he wouldnt have subscribed to the offer as hed have been better off selling on 
the open market.
background
An investigator at this service didnt  feel his complaint should be upheld.
He said Computershare provided  an execution only service;  in this case  simply providing 
brief information about the offer. He accepted that this never actually specified that one 
could incur a Canadian  withholding  tax but it did make clear that prospective purchasers  
needed to read through the full terms before deciding whether or not to proceed with the 
offer. The letter also mentioned that tax may be applicable and explained that further details  
on the tax treatment of the offer could be found within  the Offer to Purchase circular.
Given this, he wouldnt reasonably expect Computershare to relay all the applicable 
conditions in its covering letter, particularly as these were set out in the accompanying 
circular. He noted that the covering  letter finished by explaining:  
This letter explains the process for accepting or not accepting the Offer, it does not 
constitute a recommendation as to how you should  act. Neither the Company  nor 
Computershare can give you financial or tax advice. If you are in any doubt  as to how to 
proceed you should seek independent professional  advice.
He also noted  that the Offer  to Purchase  circular did mention potential  tax implications and 
the withholding tax on multiple occasions.  He didnt  believe that this information had been 
hidden and he felt Computershare had provided all the information needed for Mr N to make 
an informed decision.
He recognised that Mr N wouldnt  have taken  the offer up if hed been aware of the 
withholding tax but said this didnt  mean  Computershare had done anything  wrong.
Mr N did not agree, saying that the amount of the share price  attributable  to dividends  (and 
therefore taxable)  was highly unusual and that this should have been highlighted or clearly 
signposted in Computershares covering letter. Instead it was buried on page 64 of the 
Offers website.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons.
There is no dispute that this was a non-advised sale, meaning that Computershares 
responsibility was limited to provide fair and accurate information. In fact, I am satisfied that 
it went to some lengths to make clear that its summary of the Offer  was little more  than a 
Ref: DRN66257962brief introduction to the proposed share  purchase  proposition and that clients needed to read 
far more supplementary information to decide  whether to take up the offer.
Specifically, it said:
The above  Offer is just a general  brief summary of the Offer  and  does not include full 
details of the Offer. You are recommended  to read the Offer to Purchase and Circular for full 
details of the Offer.  If  you are in any doubt as to how to proceed, you are strongly advised to 
seek independent professional advice
Given this, I think the onus was on Mr N to read all the supplementary information.  Had he 
done so, I am satisfied  that the full nature of the Offer would have become apparent.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6625796