K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy AXA Insurance  UK Plc is refusing to settle their claim for damage 
to a garden wall, under  their buildings insurance policy.
background
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs Gs garden  wall fell over. They  said that someone  had 
pushed over a number of garden walls  on the street that day. So they made a claim on their 
buildings insurance  policy for malicious damage.
AXA considered the claim  and asked its surveyors to look at the damage.  It said the damage 
was consistent  with deterioration related to the age of the wall, and not malicious  damage. It 
said the wall may have been pushed, however if it had been  maintained  to a stable condition 
it wouldnt have fallen  over.
Mr and Mrs G said the wall was standing before this incident so it was maintained  enough. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint  and said that it was likely the 
damage was due to usual  wear and tear, which the policy  didnt provide cover  for.  And  so 
he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G didnt  agree, so the complaint has come  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding it.
Insurance policies  dont  cover every eventuality and will only provide cover for those events 
detailed in the policy. The relevant one here is malicious damage.  
Mr and Mrs Gs policy says it covers malicious damage or vandalism and defines  this as 
loss or damage resulting  from malicious  acts or vandalism. Mr G has provided a crime  
report number to show he reported this incident  to the police. I dont disbelieve  someone did 
push over the wall. However I also need  to consider any exclusions that apply to the policy.  
The relevant  one here is wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy schedule and policy document highlights the need to maintain the 
property and ensure  its in a good state  of repair. The policy says it will not pay for any loss, 
damage, liability, cost or expense caused by gradual deterioration/maintenance.  It expands  
on this by saying  Wear  and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould,  
dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise  from the normal  use, maintenance and upkeep 
of your buildings
If an insurer relies  on an exclusion to decline a claim, Id expect to see some evidence this 
exclusion does apply  in the circumstances. And, having looked at the evidence  provided, I 
think the insurer has shown the exclusion applies in this case. So, Im satisfied AXA doesnt  
need to do anything more.
The surveyor who visited the property  said the mortar of the wall had gone  soft. This meant 
a layer of garden  soil had been able to penetrate the wall. There was also damage to the 
Ref: DRN69428602wall that had been caused by a nearby tree. He said the colouring  and the mortar that was 
present showed  him this damage had been  done  over time. 
The surveyor also referred  to some pictures  of the property that were  publically available. 
They showed the cracking and damage  was present in 2007; he said this confirmed the 
damage happened over time. Having considered the surveyors  report  and Mr and Mrs Gs 
testimony Im persuaded the wall wasnt maintained and was weak  because  of damage that 
has happened gradually over time. The wall may have been  pushed,  but I find that a well 
maintained wall should be able to withstand that force.  Gradual damage  isnt something 
covered under the policy so I think its reasonable for AXA to decline Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6942860