K822xcomplaint
Ms F complains about the way Legal & General Insurance Limited dealt  with her buildings  
insurance claim.
background 
In March 2018 Ms F made  a claim on her buildings insurance policy following an escape  of 
water from a tank in her loft.
The claim was accepted and work began to repair the damage. This included  drying  out the 
property, removing asbestos and replacing ceilings. The work was completed in September  
2018.
Ms F complained about delays, the number of visits required and poor workmanship. She 
said she was self-employed and had lost income  as well as incurring additional electricity  
costs and suffering  mental and physical discomfort.
L & G accepted  that mistakes  had been  made and that the claim hadnt  been handled as 
well as it should have  been. It agreed that there had been a lack of communication  between  
its various contractors which had led to delays and multiple visits. It also acknowledged that 
it should have  offered  Ms F alternative accommodation at an earlier  stage. To put things 
right it offered to pay her £450 compensation.
Ms F then brought her complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. He outlined 
the things that had gone wrong in his letter of 21 August  2019.  I dont need to repeat them 
here. Our investigator thought that L & G should  increase its offer to include £250  loss of 
earnings and another £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  He also asked L & G 
to consider Ms Fs claim for additional electricity costs.
L & G agreed. It has now paid the additional  electricity costs and has agreed to pay the 
additional compensation recommended  by our investigator. 
Ms F says shes prepared to accept  the recommendation, apart from the amount offered for 
loss of earnings. She says she lost two days of contractual work (at £250 a day) when the 
ceilings were plastered and that because the work  was shoddy, and had to be re-done, she 
wasted further  days. She says she thinks being  self-employed has put her at a disadvantage  
and shed like L & G to compensate her for the £500 she says she lost through  having to 
cancel her contractual work.
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same  overall conclusions as our investigator. I dont think L & G handled 
this claim well so Im pleased that it agreed with our investigators recommendation to 
increase its offer of compensation and to deal with Ms Fs claim for additional electricity 
used. 
Ref: DRN69195982It only remains for me to consider whether L & G should pay further compensation for lost 
earnings.
I understand Ms Fs argument and I can see why she feels  strongly about this. She had to 
cancel two days contractual work  to be at home  when the ceilings were re-plastered. So I 
can understand how frustrating it was when the work wasnt satisfactory  and further 
appointments had to be made. 
But as our investigator explained,  and I think Ms F accepts, she would have  lost those days 
anyway if the work had been done properly. L & G arent to blame  for the original damage or 
the need for repairs  and Ms F hasnt been  able to show any additional  lost income for the 
later appointments made.
Of course Ms F was caused more inconvenience  and hassle  as a result of the shoddy work 
and our investigator took that into account  in his recommendation.  
Looking at things  as a whole I think, overall,  the increased compensation suggested  by our 
investigator is fair. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Legal & General Insurance Limited  must  pay Ms F £450 compensation in addition to the 
£450 it has already  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6919598