K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1995.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 10 January 2019  upholding this complaint on the basis  
that I dont  think FICL gave Mrs H a choice and I dont think  she chose to take out the PPI. 
FICL hasnt  responded and with no new evidence to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings in my provisional decision,  which I will repeat here for completeness.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold the complaint  and Ill explain why.
Our adjudicator has said that it looks like Mrs H was given a choice and chose to take out 
the PPI based  on the application  form provided  by FICL. Having looked at this form, whilst 
the PPI was presented as an optional product, Im not satisfied that on the balance of 
probabilities Mrs H selected to take out the PPI.
I say this because  of the appearance of the tick compared to how the rest of form was 
completed and there is a name written  below the tick that doesnt appear to relate to Mrs H. 
Due to the time that has passed,  I understand its unlikely that FICL will be able provide 
further information. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think its reasonable to 
accept this form as evidence that Mrs H selected  the PPI. And with nothing further to 
substantiate this, I uphold this complaint because I dont think  FICL has evidenced that Mrs 
H made a choice.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs H would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
Ref: DRN61311772The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs H would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year 
from then on.
D.FICL should tell Mrs H what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   
Mrs H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold the Mrs Hs complaint against Financial Insurance 
Company Limited.  It should put things  right as directed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6131177