K821x#15complaint and background 
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Newcastle Building Society  (Newcastle)  mis-sold them  
a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy to protect a mortgage in December  1999.  The 
mortgage was redeemed in November 2011.  Mr and Mrs H complain, amongst other things,  
that they did not have a fair choice about  taking  out the policy,  did not need  the policy and 
that it was not suitable for them. 
Newcastle disputes  that the PPI was mis-sold and, in any event, it says that it isnt 
responsible for the PPI sale. It says that a third party (Business B) sold the PPI directly  to 
Mr and Mrs H. Our adjudicator concluded  that Newcastle did sell the PPI. Because  
Newcastle didnt agree  with our adjudicators findings - Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  has come 
to me for a decision.  
Mr and Mrs H bring  this complaint with the assistance of a claims management company. 
For simplicitys sake Ill refer to any submissions made on their behalf as if Mr and Mrs H 
had made  them themselves.   
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 19 February 2019, which  is attached and 
forms part of my final decision.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Mr and Mrs Hs representative and Newcastle 
Building Society have  confirmed that they have received my provisional decision. Neither Mr 
and Mrs H nor the Business have submitted any further comments or evidence for me to 
consider. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
I assume that Mr and Mrs H and Newcastle do not accept my decision.  But neither the 
Business nor Mr and Mrs H has presented anything new for me to consider, and I dont see 
any reason to go behind my findings in my provisional decision.  So, Im not going to uphold  
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  against Newcastle.
Which means Newcastle doesnt  have to pay back all of the costs of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H.
But Newcastle will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Newcastle got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Newcastle  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Newcastle has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN68914022what the business needs  to do
If they havent already, Newcastle has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Newcastle should also pay 
back to Mr and Mrs H any extra interest they paid because of that.
Newcastle should  pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Newcastle should 
also pay Mr and Mrs H 8% simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
I conclude that Newcastle Building  Society is responsible for looking at this complaint about 
the PPI sale. And for the reasons given  above,  my decision is the PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  
 so Newcastle  Building Society  does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H.
But, if it has not already  done so, Newcastle Building Society  does have to pay back  to 
Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019
Marie Lewiecki
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN68914023copy  of provisional findings
complaint and background
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Newcastle  mis-sold  them a Payment  Protection Insurance  (PPI)  
policy to protect  a mortgage in December  1999. The mortgage was redeemed in November 2011. Mr 
and Mrs H complain,  amongst other things,  that they did not have  a fair choice about taking out the 
policy, did not need the policy and that it was not suitable for them.  
Newcastle disputes  that the PPI was mis-sold and, in any event, it says that it isnt responsible for the 
PPI sale.  It says that a third party (Business B) sold the PPI directly to Mr and Mrs H. Our adjudicator 
concluded that Newcastle did sell the PPI. Because Newcastle didnt  agree with our adjudicators 
findings - Mr and Mrs Hs complaint has come  to me for a decision. 
Mr and Mrs H bring this complaint with the assistance of a claims management company. For 
simplicitys sake Ill refer to any submissions made on their behalf as if Mr and Mrs H had made them 
themselves.  
my provisional  findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
provisional decision  in responsibility for sale
As Ive explained, Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about this PPI policy being  mis-sold. But the business  
theyve brought their complaint against, Newcastle, says it didnt sell the policy to them   so it isnt 
responsible for anything that mightve  gone wrong  with the sale.  It says that Business B sold the 
policy when it submitted an application to Newcastle  for Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage  so it, not 
Newcastle, is responsible  for now addressing this complaint. 
Business B says that it did not sell a PPI policy to Mr and Mrs H but acted simply in the capacity of an 
introducer.
With this in mind, Ive thought carefully  about  all of the available evidence to decide  who sold Mr and 
Mrs Hs policy. 
Taking all the evidence and submissions into account,  including  the documentation from the time of 
sale  which, in my view,  would tend to carry more weight than recollections  of what occurred many 
years after the event   Im minded to conclude  that Newcastle did sell this PPI to Mr and Mrs H. I say 
this for the following reasons:
 I have  seen  a copy of a Newcastle  Building Society Mortgage Application  Form. I can see that 
it is on the lenders  headed  paper but that does not automatically mean that Newcastle arranged the 
mortgage or the PPI  it simply confirms that it was the finance provider. Having considered this 
document and all the other evidence in this case, I think it likely that this information  was filled in 
following a conversation between Mr and Mrs H and Business B. I note the date it was signed by Mr 
and Mrs H on 25 October 1999. Although I note there is a section of the mortgage application form 
entitled PPI, I have also been provided  with a separate form entitled Payment Protection also signed 
by Mr and Mrs H on 25 October 1999. I can see on this form that option C (selected by Mr and Mrs H) 
reads: I/we would like to take Payment Protection Plus offered  by the Newcastle Building  Society.  
Please send me/us  an application form.  Below  this both Mr and Mrs H have signed  the form. I note 
Mr and Mrs Hs testimony is also consistent with this - they have always been clear that the PPI was 
sold to them by Newcastle.  
Ref: DRN68914024 I have  also been provided with a letter dated 28 October 1999  from Business  B to Mr and Mrs 
H. In a section  entitled  Selected Lender I can see that Business B recommended  the Newcastle 
mortgage to Mr and Mrs H. In respect of the PPI I can see that it reads I have recommended you 
seek further advice about making arrangements to protect your mortgage and ancillary payments  in 
the event of accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment. You have agreed to follow  this 
recommendation. I have considered this and all the other evidence in this case very carefully.  Having 
done so, I think it most likely  that Newcastle  sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. 
I have looked very carefully at all the other evidence and submissions  from all parties  and, at this 
stage, I think  that Newcastle sold the PPI policy  so it should answer Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
my provisional  conclusion on the merits 
Theres only limited information available about  this sale. Neither Newcastle nor Mr and Mrs H have 
been able to provide all the documents from when the PPI was taken  out in 1999.  I dont think thats 
surprising. I wouldnt expect Newcastle (or Mr and Mrs H) to have kept these  records for so long. And 
it wouldnt be reasonable to rely just on what Mr and Mrs H might be able to remember about the sale 
after such a long time.  I have  not been provided with a copy of the relevant  policy document. But 
I have seen a copy of the policy summary. As this is the next best available information  about  the 
policy, I have used  this document in order to come to my conclusions.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Mr and Mrs H were eligible  for the policy. 
In order  to uphold this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs H werent given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account  without  their consent. But I cant 
fairly say this based on the information Ive got. Ive not seen anything  that clearly shows 
Newcastle didnt make Mr and Mrs H aware that they were taking the PPI or that it was optional.  
Whilst I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H may not have been  given a fair choice, considering how 
long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence  to be able to uphold the 
complaint on this point. And having considered all the submissions and evidence I have received 
in this case, I have seen no evidence to make me think Mr and Mrs H were  placed  under undue 
pressure to take out the PPI. I think its more likely  that Newcastle wouldve made Mr and Mrs H 
aware that the PPI was optional and that they freely chose to take it, even though they may not 
remember that now, many years later. I note having PPI may have meant Mr and Mrs H would 
have benefited from a lower  rate of interest but this does not affect my decision.  
Newcastle probably didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. This means  it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted their circumstances.  It would have been for Mr and Mrs H to decide whether 
it was suitable. But even if it had made a recommendation, I think  it would probably  have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Not being able to pay a mortgage can cause 
significant difficulties, and the PPI would have paid out in addition  to any employer benefits, and 
for longer. So it would  have  been  potentially  useful. 
I have  seen no evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs H had any significant  savings at the time or that 
there was any duplication in cover. 
The PPI was payable monthly and could  be cancelled  at any time. I have  seen no evidence to 
make me think that the PPI was unaffordable to Mr and Mrs H.
Its hard to know  how well Newcastle  explained  the cost of the policy. But, in any event, for the 
reasons contained in this decision I dont think full and clear  information  about  the costs would  
have affected whether  Mr and Mrs H took the PPI.
Ref: DRN68914025Its possible  Newcastle also didnt  clearly  point out the main  things the policy didnt  cover. But 
based on what I know  of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs H 
would have  been  materially affected  by any of these.
Ive also thought  about  everything Mr and Mrs H have said - including  what  they have said about 
their employment.  But these points dont  change my decision. I have seen no evidence  to make 
me think Mr and Mrs H could not have claimed on the policy if they had need to. Mr and Mrs H 
were taking on a financial  commitment secured on their home. The PPI was intended  to remove 
the additional pressure  of paying the mortgage at what might be a difficult  time financially. I think it 
would have  given Mr and Mrs H additional peace of mind  in relation to an important financial 
commitment. So I dont  think this made the cover unsuitable for them.
Ive thought  about  everything Mr and Mrs H have said but these points dont change my decision.
But Newcastle will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Newcastle got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Newcastle didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Newcastle has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Newcastle has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Newcastle  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
Newcastle should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Newcastle  should  also pay Mr and Mrs 
H 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
I am currently minded to conclude  that Newcastle Building Society is responsible  for looking at this 
complaint about the PPI sale. And for the reasons given  above,  my provisional decision is the PPI 
policy wasnt mis-sold  so Newcastle Building Society does not have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Newcastle Building Society  does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I now invite  both parties to let me have any submissions they may wish to make, in response to my 
provisional decision  in writing within one month, after which I will issue my final decision.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6891402