K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc (Bradford & Bingley) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B arranged  a mortgage  with Bradford  & Bingley in 1996.  During  the application 
they were also sold a MPPI policy that covered them both against  accidents and sickness. 
This was all arranged  in a meeting. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs B dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons:
I looked at whether  Mr and Mrs B were given  a choice  to have the MPPI  policy  or not. 
When I consider this, I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs B 
during the meeting in 1996 and not much has been  said by either party  on this. So Ive 
looked at the sales  documentation from the time of sale to give me an understanding  as 
to what more likely than not happened  when  the parties met. 
I can see on the application form for their mortgage in 1996 that there were options listed  
regarding the type of cover that they would like, suggesting to me that a conversation  
was likely had regarding what type of cover, and they chose one of the options and 
signed the form agreeing to have the MPPI  policy to protect  their repayments. I think  
after considering  the documentation that Bradford & Bingley has been able to provide 
including a copy of the application form for the sale I am persuaded that Mr and Mrs B 
were given  an option to have  MPPI in the meeting  and informed  of its details.
It looks to me that Bradford & Bingley recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs B, and 
because of this, it had a responsibility  to ensure the policy  was suitable for them. And it 
looks like it was suitable based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time.
I say this because  although they say Mr B would  have had at least  6 months  sick pay 
and Mrs B also had means at the time, I think the policy would have been useful in a 
time of need. They could have claimed for benefit  in addition to their provisions and for 
longer. I could also not find any other  reason that would make the policy  unsuitable for 
either of them  such  as a restrictive  or limiting term.
Bradford & Bingley  has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI 
that Mr and Mrs B took out. But I cant be sure if it clearly  disclosed the costs  of the 
policy to them in the meeting. That said, even if it did, I dont think  it would have affected 
Ref: DRN68938392their decision  to take the policy  with their mortgage  for the same reason that I think the 
policy was suitable.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs B wouldve been affected  by any of these.
I consider that the policy provided  Mr and Mrs B with a useful additional benefit for a 
reasonable cost to protect their home  in the event  that it was necessary for them  to make 
a claim.  Im not persuaded they would  have avoided protecting their repayments given 
the serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured  against their home. 
So I dont think  Bradford & Bingley mis-sold Mr and Mrs B this PPI policy.  This means  
Bradford & Bingley dont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. But 
Bradford & Bingley  has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs B about  that. Because  Bradford & 
Bingley didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6893839