K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs M says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Capital One had to make it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she had to 
agree to take it out. Mrs M has said she wasnt aware she had a choice. Where there is a 
dispute such as this I need to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened.
Capital One has confirmed the PPI was taken  out in a phone call. It no longer has a record  
of the call but it has sent us a copy of the telephone guidance process from around that time 
which it says it would  have expected  its staff to follow when selling PPI over the phone.  
Capital One says this would reflect the conversation if would have had with Mrs M. And 
while I cant be certain exactly what was discussed in the call, this document does direct  the 
staff member to ask for a customers  permission  before adding  PPI to the account.  As I 
have no evidence to make me think otherwise, it seems more  likely than not that the staff 
member would have  followed this process.
So based  on what Ive seen and what I know about Capital Ones sales practices at that 
time, I think its more  likely that Capital One made  Mrs M aware  that the policy was optional 
and she chose to take it, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it  even if she may 
not recall that now.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed  to decide for herself 
if it was right for her.
Its possible  the information Capital One gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. It also looks  like the policy  
was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover.
It also appears  that the cover would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. From 
what Mrs M has told us, she may have received sick pay from her employer if she was too ill 
to work but she wasnt  able to clarify how much or for how long she would receive  any 
payment. And she has told us she only had enough  savings to cover about one months 
salary. As this policy  would have  paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs M was too ill to work or 
if she lost her job, I think it could have provided her with a useful benefit. 
Ref: DRN68510862Ive thought about everything Mrs M has told us but these points dont alter my decision. So 
when taking everything into consideration, I dont think Mrs M has lost out as a result of 
anything that Capital One may have done wrong. It therefore follows I dont  think the policy  
was mis-sold and Capital  One doesnt  have  to refund the premiums  paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6851086