K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) blocked his bank card and caused 
him a great deal of embarrassment. 
background
Mr H is unhappy his bank  card was blocked  while he was buying groceries. Hed already 
used it earlier in the day. Mr H said he was very embarrassed by the situation. He was able 
to get some  cash from a machine outside  to pay for his goods. But hed like a written  
apology and compensation  for his trouble and upset.
The Co-op said Mr Hs transaction had been blocked as part of its fraud  prevention 
measures. It needed  to confirm the transaction was genuine. The Co-op apologised for any 
inconvenience. But the measure had been  taken to protect his account. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with the Co-ops response. So he contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She explained the Co-op  monitors accounts to identify  
potentially fraudulent transactions. And although the transaction  had been genuine she felt 
the bank had the right to protect  itself and its customers  from fraud  or potential fraud.
Mr H didnt agree. The Co-op hadnt explained why it had blocked his transaction  and 
caused such embarrassment. And it couldve  sent him a text message  or tried to contact him 
before itd blocked his card. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the Co-op blocked the transaction it mustve  been very embarrassing for Mr H. He 
was buying groceries in public. And he had to go outside to withdraw some cash before he 
could complete the purchase. So Ive looked  carefully at whats happened and whether the 
Co-op did anything  wrong  that it needs  to put right.
I can see the Co-op became concerned by Mr Hs spending pattern that day. Hed made a 
number of transactions in a short period of time. And one of them  was for a large sum of 
money. So it placed a block on his account  while it checked everything  was okay. 
When Mr H spoke to the Co-op he was able to confirm the transactions  had all be legitimate. 
And the block was removed. But Mr H would like to know  why his spending was picked up 
by the Co-op.  And he thinks the Co-op shouldve alerted  him sooner if it thought  there was a 
problem.
Unfortunately the Co-op hasnt been able to disclose why its fraud  prevention systems felt 
there might be a problem.  And Mr H believes that suggests a somewhat chaotic  approach to 
fraud prevention. But banking  systems  are constantly evolving to meet new threats and 
challenges. And banks dont disclose  what they are looking  for because it might  help real 
fraudsters try and defeat their systems.
I do understand how this must feel for a genuine  customer who has been affected by a 
block. The Co-op  needs to have systems in place  to try and protect  itself and its customers.  
Ref: DRN61817982It cant go into details about  what causes a flag to arise without jeopardising  those systems. 
And Im sure Mr H would  prefer the Co-op  to make the occasional check  and protect  his 
account rather than let unauthorised transactions withdraw his money.  
The terms and conditions  of the account say If we block or suspend  the use of a payment 
device, well let you know why as soon as we reasonably  can, unless the law or any 
regulation prevents us doing  so or if we believe  doing so would compromise reasonable 
security measures. And Mr H feels the Co-op  couldve got in touch sooner.
But its not the role of this service to tell the Co-op  how to run its business. Thats the role of 
its regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority. Our role is to see if the Co-op has made a 
mistake. And if so what  it needs  to do to put things  right.
The Co-op has made a commercial decision  about  how it operates  its fraud prevention 
systems. And I agree  with Mr H that it could look into text and other alerts to customers  
where it feels there might be a problem. But, as Ive explained, thats not something our 
service can tell the bank  to do, although  Im sure it takes note of all the complaints it receives 
to see if it can improve  things.
I can see Mr H is also unhappy how the Co-op handled his complaint. But Ive checked the 
steps taken after Mr H contacted the bank. And I think the Co-op did follow its complaint 
procedures properly. It logged the complaint and responded within the regulated  timescales. 
And it directed Mr H to our service when he wasnt satisfied with its response.
I appreciate how stressful  this mustve been  for Mr H. And I dont underestimate the impact  
this has had on him. But I havent  seen  anything to suggest the Co-op has done anything  
wrong in how it dealt with the block or Mr Hs complaint. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6181798