K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a personal  loan in 2010. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt  planning  to uphold this complaint. 
Santander had nothing further to add and Mrs H didnt reply  by the deadline. So I see no 
reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.  Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs 
complaint because:
     Mrs H applied for the loan online.  The online  application process presented  her with yes 
and no options,  where she had to indicate  if she wanted  PPI. She selected yes and 
answered some  questions about  her circumstances to confirm her eligibility. Her credit  
agreement was then sent to her through the post.  On that, which  showed the cost of the 
PPI and described  it as optional, she ticked and signed to indicate she wanted it  
separately to where  she signed  to agree to the loan.  So I think  Santander made Mrs H 
aware that she had a choice  about  buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
     Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her.
The cost of the policy  (both  the monthly  cost and the total premiums payable  if the PPI 
was kept for the full term of the loan)  was shown on the credit agreement. So I think  Mrs 
H wouldve understood how much she would need to pay for it before making  her final 
decision to buy it.
Its possible  that Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mrs H doesnt appear  to have been affected  by any of those things. In relation to Mrs 
Hs medical condition, this would only have been excluded  if shed been  off work 
because of it at the time she took out the policy. But she has told us that the condition  is 
well controlled and that shes never had to take time off work because of it. So I dont 
think this exclusion affected  her.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not planning  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN67333142Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6733314