K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave him a loan 
that was unaffordable, and it has charged excessive interest without making  it clear  to him.
background
Mr S took three  loans from Satsuma. He borrowed twice in 2016 and those loans were  
repaid early.  Mr S took out his final loan for £600 in January  2018  and agreed to repay 
the loan over the following  twelve months at £99.60. There  is a balance on the loan that 
remains outstanding.
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter  to both 
parties explaining that he didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He concluded  
that Satsuma didnt need  to carry out any further  checks at the time it granted  the loans to 
Mr S and didnt do anything wrong.  
Mr S didnt  agree with our adjudicator and in particular explained  that his complaint about 
the front loading  of interest hadnt properly been addressed.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr S could  repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts  
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages  of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable for a consumer. These 
factors include: 
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult  
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN68423572There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma did a number  of checks  before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details of his income  
and her normal expenditure.  It gathered data from credit reference agencies.  And it then 
used this information to calculate how much disposable income  Mr S had left over each 
month. Satsuma also used the credit reference  agency checks  to gather some  more 
information about Mr Ss financial  situation  at that time. As a result of those  checks  Satsuma 
adjusted Mr Ss disposable income  to take account of the additional credit commitments  that 
it could see that Mr S hadnt declared  on his application. 
Mr S has told our service that his finances were  under significant  pressure  at the time he 
applied for the loan with Satsuma and that it should have picked up on this. But Mr S had 
paid off his two previous loans early and without any apparent  difficulty. There had been  a 
significant gap in lending of over 12 months and so I dont think there was anything in Mr Ss 
borrowing pattern  or the credit checks that should have alerted Satsuma to Mr Ss 
difficulties.
In saying  that I think it is important to note that, generally, the information  a consumer 
might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen 
by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion  of the credit file, or some data might  be 
missing or anonymised,  or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain why Mr S 
says that he was having problems  managing her money at the time the loan was granted  
but this was not reflected  in the credit  search  information collated by Satsuma at the time.
The repayments that Mr S had agreed  to make on his loan were relatively modest  
compared to the income that hed declared  to Satsuma. And based on what  he had told 
Satsuma and the credit checks  it carried out, the repayments appeared to be easily  
affordable. So given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time, and his lack of recent borrowing history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma  to ask him for the amount of information  
that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. So, I dont think Satsuma was 
wrong to give this loan to Mr S.
Mr S also complains that the amount of interest that was charged was front  loaded onto 
the agreement  and this wasnt made clear to him at the time. I can see that Mr Ss previous 
two loans were settled early and a rebate of interest in relation to the first loan was applied 
and the second loan was settled under the right of withdrawal. Mr S has confirmed that he 
doesnt have any complaint about these two loans  so I dont  think  I need to say any more  
about them.
I have looked  at the credit agreement signed  electronically  by Mr S. Under  the heading 
Cost of Credit  the agreement sets out the rate of interest as 99.20%  per annum  fixed.  It 
also states, Interest has been pre-calculated  and applied at the commencement of the 
credit agreement. I think that the terms of the agreement signed  by Mr S make it clear both 
the rate of interest  that applies to the loan and that the interest is pre calculated  and applied 
at the start.  
I can appreciate that Mr S considers the rate of interest to be high and I sympathise, but it is 
within the cap that the regulations allow and so I cant say that it is wrong. Similarly, the fact 
that the interest is front loaded is set out in the signed agreement so I cant  say that Mr S 
wasnt aware of it. I understand that he says the website didnt make it clear and Satsuma 
Ref: DRN68423573has now changed this but I have to take into account what the credit agreement  says and 
the terms that Mr S agreed to be bound by.  
I understand that Mr S is now having  difficulties  paying back  what  he has borrowed  and I 
dont doubt that this has been stressful for him. I would expect Satsuma to treat Mr S 
positively and sympathetically when arranging for repayment of any outstanding balance. I 
know that my decision will be disappointing  for Mr S but I cant  ask Satsuma to do anything 
further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6842357