K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  unfairly declined  his claim for alternative 
accommodation (AA) costs under his home  insurance policy.
All references to Ageas  include their appointed agents.
Background 
Mr H is seeking reimbursement from Ageas for accommodation costs incurred between  
March 2011 and April 2017, in connection with an escape of water claim to a property he 
owned and insured in December 2010.
The background to this complaint is extensive  so I wont  repeat  everything again here. But I 
want to reassure both parties that I have read and carefully considered everything thats 
been provided. Ill set out the points  below that are relevant to this decision.
In 2016, the previous ombudsman found Ageas should consider  any additional costs Mr H 
incurred, subject to evidence of those costs  including past and future alternative 
accommodation costs.
Mr H provided  some  evidence to Ageas of his accommodation costs which  it didnt accept. It 
said it hadnt seen  anything to show Mr H had incurred costs  for AA, as he wasnt living  at 
the insured property at the time of the loss. And Ageas continued to allege the property was 
empty prior to and after the period  Mr H was claiming for. Ageas said it had considered  
these costs in line with the previous final decision and gave Mr H its final response.
Mr H referred  his complaint to our service. He said he was told the AA costs  would  be 
covered in Ageas final response  and was unhappy  they had been declined.  Mr H referred to 
the previous final decision  and claimed that it said it also showed he should be repaid his AA 
costs. Mr H added that Ageas had changed its position on the reason why it had declined 
the costs when challenged.
Our investigator looked at everything  and acknowledged the evidence  Mr H had provided to 
support his claim. He concluded it wasnt sufficient  to show  Mr H paid rent for the period the 
insured property underwent repairs. So he didnt think  Ageas should pay anything  in AA 
costs. He explained the other costs Mr H was claiming for had been covered by a previous 
decision at our service, so he couldnt consider  the matter further. Our investigator  
concluded that as things  stood, he couldnt  recommend the complaint be upheld, but would 
review any further evidence which showed the amounts, dates,  and frequency of Mr Hs 
rental payments.
Mr H responded and provided  further  evidence for our investigator  to consider. In summary  
he said:
Ref: DRN67702872A contract  was agreed when he met the loss adjuster on site to pay his AA costs;
He was staying  at the flat free of charge before the claim and only started paying rent 
when the flat changed ownership;
The final decision  states that Ageas are liable for his AA costs;
If he had moved to a different flat would this then mean his claim for additional  costs  
would be paid?
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence and provided a further opinion on the matter.  He 
recommended the complaint not be upheld as he couldnt see the costs  incurred by Mr H 
were as a direct result of the claim and the property being uninhabitable.  He was satisfied   
Mr H did pay rent on the property, but he didnt think the rental  costs  being claimed were 
additional costs  for the duration  of the repairs. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators opinion and requested an ombudsmans  decision. He 
provided a number of comments  for the ombudsman  to consider. In summary  he said:
He didnt feel enough weight had been  given to Ageas final response  which  stated it 
would pay the AA costs once evidence  was provided;
He said our investigator had introduced the concept of whether the rental payments 
were additional or not, and hadnt taken into account he couldnt live or move back 
to the property due to his health and disabilities;
Ageas  had constantly changed its position  in order to decline his AA costs;
He couldnt  move back to the risk property due to the distress  it would cause him, 
and his claim shouldnt  be declined on this basis;
He feels his mental health difficulties have now prejudiced his claim;
He feels the evidence he has provided  has been selectively used and misused.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The previous  decision made by this Service said Ageas should  consider any additional costs 
Mr H incurred, subject to evidence of those costs including past and future alternative 
accommodation costs.  Mr H is unhappy  with the outcome of Ageas consideration.
I will not comment on or consider any other issues which have already been determined  by 
this Service in the final decision Mr H refers to. However, I want to reassure Mr H I have 
considered all the evidence in relation to this specific complaint point in making my decision.
Ref: DRN67702873Ive seen the final response  letter  from Ageas that Mr H refers to. The letter says his rental 
costs would be accepted upon  receipt  of evidence. But Ageas has declined  this part of the 
claim, as it says the rental  costs  are for a property Mr H lived in before the claim was made. 
And it isnt satisfied these  costs have been  incurred by Mr H not being able to live at the 
property due to the claim  because Mr H was living away from the property anyway. 
My role here is to determine whether Ageas has considered these AA costs fairly  and in line 
with Mr Hs policy terms. Or alternatively,  if it would be fair to require it to settle  these costs  
outside of the policy  terms in the circumstances of this case.
Mr Hs policy  states Whist  your  home is uninhabitable as a result  of any cause covered 
under this policy, we will pay for (i) rent you would have received or are responsible for 
paying; (ii) the reasonable costs of agreed, similar  temporary accommodation for youwhile 
you cannot live in your home
So I can understand by the definition of the terms why Mr H feels his AA costs should  be 
covered. But in this case, it is important to consider Mr Hs circumstances when the claim 
was made.  Mr H has said he lived rent-free  in a flat for a time before the insured event, and 
then started paying  rent when it was sold to a new owner. And I understand that as things 
stand he is still living there. So the event which happened to the insured property did not 
cause him to be out of his home. The property being claimed for wasnt being  used  as a 
home by Mr H prior to the claim, at the time of the claim, or after the claim. On balance, it 
appears AA wasnt offered to Mr H because it wasnt considered that he needed it, as he 
was already living elsewhere. 
I think it would be only reasonable for Ageas to pay for any costs  Mr H was incurring,  if it can 
be shown he was suffering additional costs because of needing to be out of the address, 
when he would have  been living there but for the loss.
Ive not seen anything from the evidence provided to persuade me Mr H planned  to move 
back to the insured property during the time the claim was in question, when it was 
uninhabitable or upon completion of repairs.  I do acknowledge Mr H says his mental health 
is a contributing factor to this. But having carefully considered  everything  about Mr Hs 
circumstances, Im not persuaded he would have  acted  differently had the insured event not 
happened, or that the evidence provided shows he required alternative accommodation 
because he couldnt  live at the risk address due to the claim.  
I do appreciate why Mr H feels our investigator had introduced the concept  of the AA costs 
being additional  unfairly. But having  considered everything I agree with our investigators 
interpretation here. And I understand it to mean costs  which  Mr H would have  incurred, on 
top of those he would have been  reasonably paying  anyway. 
I know Mr H strongly  refutes this point, but Im not satisfied its fair to require Ageas to pay 
for a cost which isnt covered under the terms of his policy. And whilst it may have agreed to 
cover the costs in a previous meeting, I dont  think its position is unreasonable  to require 
evidence these costs  are an additional  expense. Ive not seen any evidence  of an agreed 
contract to pay AA costs.  And I from what Ive seen  I dont think  the costs are an additional 
expense incurred as a direct result  of the claim.
Ref: DRN67702874I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, and I want  to reassure him Ive 
considered everything  hes provided  to our Service. But I think  Ageass decision to decline 
his claim for AA costs  based on the evidence  its seen is reasonable. So I wont be requiring 
Ageas to do anything  further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6770287