K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited mis-sold him a conditional  sale 
agreement for a static  caravan, didnt allow him to voluntarily terminate it, and about related 
issues.
background 
In 2014 Mr B bought a static caravan under a regulated conditional sale agreement  (CSA) 
financed by Clydesdale,  trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). He made monthly 
repayments by direct debit until December 2015,  by which  time he had missed some  
payments and was in arrears. (However, it has not been suggested that the monthly 
payments were not affordable  to begin  with.) After that, he made weekly  payments by 
standing order, which on a monthly basis exceeded  the contractual  payments, to clear the 
arrears. He stopped  making payments in October 2016 because  he lost his job. On 9 March  
2017 he began making token payments of £1 a month. Meanwhile, in late 2016 and early 
2017, he discussed the possibility of either  selling  the caravan himself  or voluntarily 
terminating his agreement.
Mr B has complained about many points, and in this section I will only summarise  the ones 
I consider to be the most  important  or most relevant, since  it is best practice to keep the 
background section  brief.  He says that in some  phone calls with BPF, he was told that his 
loan was not secured on the caravan and that he could sell it, but later on he was told that in 
fact it was secured  after all and so he could  not sell the caravan himself. He complains  that 
he was distressed and confused by being given conflicting information,  at a time when he 
was under great stress  due to being between jobs. He argues that in fact the loan was never  
secured, and that either BPF or the supplier of the caravan (or both)  fraudulently changed 
the terms of the agreement  which he says he never saw a copy  of until October 2017  to 
secure it on the caravan in order to prevent him from selling  it himself.  (I will describe their 
alleged motive for doing that later.) Alternatively,  if the loan was always secured, then BPF 
misled him in the earlier phone calls, and should have given him the correct information 
straight away. BPF says the loan was always secured,  and it has apologised for its staff 
telling Mr B otherwise.
In January 2017 Mr B wrote to BPF and asked to voluntarily terminate (VT) his agreement. 
This letter was unsigned.  After a delay of a month, BPF replied in a letter  dated  2 March to 
say that if he wanted to VT his agreement then he would have to send  in a signed letter 
confirming this before they would proceed. Mr B says he received that letter.  He criticises it 
for not mentioning that he had not signed  the letter hed sent in January. He says he replied 
to that letter  on 20 March to confirm that he wanted  to proceed with the VT, although he 
does not say whether that letter was signed or not. BPF says it never received that letter, so 
on 27 March it sent Mr B a default  notice. On receiving no reply  (Mr B says he never 
received it), BPF sent a notice in April in which it said it was terminating  the agreement  and 
intended to repossess the caravan. By this time the arrears exceeded £3,000.  Again 
receiving no reply, BPF instructed solicitors in June, and in July court proceedings were 
begun. Mr B complains that this was unnecessary.
Also in July, the solicitors  sent Mr B a form to fill in if he wanted  to voluntarily surrender (VS) 
the caravan. Mr B filled in the form, signed  it and sent it back, but he says he didnt know 
there was a difference between VS and VT and he didnt really want  to VS the caravan. He 
complains that BPFs solicitors misled him by using the terms VS and VT interchangeably,  
and he thought they meant the same thing. He never  used the term VS until after the 
Ref: DRN68904172solicitors had used  it, and until then he had only ever used the term VT. BPF says that Mr B 
lost the right to VT after it terminated the agreement  in April, and that if VS had not 
happened then it would  have obtained repossession in court  and then Mr B would have 
been liable  for BPFs legal costs. The VS avoided that.
As a result of signing the VS form, BPF stopped its legal action and sold the caravan back  to 
the supplier for £12,825. That is only 23 per cent of the price  Mr B paid for it less than three  
years earlier,  which  was £54,995 (including site fees). He has been left with an outstanding 
balance of £44,562. He complains that the caravan  was worth much more  than BPF sold it 
for, and in support of that claim he says the supplier sold it on for £44,875. He complains 
that BPF or the supplier, or both of them together, deliberately prevented him from selling 
the caravan himself at its market value, in order to maximise their own profits.  He argues 
that BPF sold it to the supplier at a low price so that it could pursue Mr B for a larger sum 
under the CSA (while the supplier could sell on it for its true value). BPF denies  this, and 
says that it sold the caravan for the standard industry  valuation  amount which it obtained 
from Glasss Guide .
Mr B also complains that the CSA was mis-sold, because of a misrepresentation by the 
supplier when it was sold to the effect  that the value of the caravan would only depreciate by 
about £10,000 over seven  years.  The supplier  denies that this was said. Being  dissatisfied 
with BPFs response to his complaint, Mr B brought this matter  to our Service.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said it had been clear  all along that Mr B had 
wanted to VT the finance agreement, and that BPF had jumped to the drastic step of 
repossession too quickly. He acknowledged  that Mr B could have done more  to resolve the 
matter, by sending  a signed VT letter, but he also thought that BPF could  and should  have 
done more too. He recommended  that BPF VT the agreement, and back-date  the VT to 
some earlier time.
BPF did not accept that opinion. It said that the investigator was trying to require BPF to 
adopt a new process  of telephoning its customers to make  sure they understood what  it had 
already told them in writing and to chase them to find out why they havent  sent signed  
letters before  commencing repossession.  BPF argued that it would not be practical  to adopt 
such measures, that it had acted properly and fairly,  and that it had been  entitled to issue a 
notice of default because of the level of arrears  on Mr Bs account. It also said that Mr B had 
never been entitled to VT because he had not paid half of the amount owed under the CSA 
 it had only agreed to let him do that in March 2017 as a concession. It asked for an 
ombudsman to review  this complaint.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
introduction
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr B has made a great many points in 
support of his complaint, but I am not going to address all of them.  Some  points are only 
relevant to the supplier,  and I am only concerned with BPF. There are some other points 
which I probably wont need to consider, because of how I propose to deal with the VT issue. 
So I have  only concentrated on the issues which I consider to be central to this case.  I have 
however read and considered all of the submissions made by both parties.
Ref: DRN68904173misrepresentation
I can deal briefly with Mr Bs complaint about  misrepresentation  of the future value of the 
caravan. I dont think there is enough evidence for me to fairly decide  what  the supplier told 
Mr B in 2014.
whether the debt  was secured or unsecured
I have read the finance agreement. It is a CSA secured on the caravan, and it says so 
clearly. Given  the price of the caravan, I think it is unlikely that BPF would have agreed to 
provide Mr B with credit to purchase it on an unsecured credit agreement, or that the 
supplier would have  brokered an unsecured credit agreement. Executing  a CSA would be 
normal industry practice, and a CSA is always secured on the goods  to which it relates.  So 
I think that this finance agreement  has always been  secured on the caravan since it was 
executed.
I accept that BPF told Mr B in phone calls that he had an unsecured  agreement, but this was 
a mistake. It doesnt  mean that the terms of the agreement were subsequently changed. 
However, this incorrect information was provided  more than once, and so I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint about  that. It happened  at a time when  Mr B was no doubt already under 
considerable stress,  having just lost his job and not yet obtained a new one. He was in 
financial difficulties, and was looking  for a way to mitigate them. He wanted to sell the 
caravan, and it must have come as a shock to him to learn   after some delay and contrary 
to what he had previously  been told  that he could not. So I think  some  compensation is 
warranted for that. Balanced against that, once  he was told that his agreement  was secured 
on the caravan  after all, if he doubted  that then he could  have  just asked to be sent a copy  of 
the agreement  so he could see for himself what it said. I will take that into account, but 
I dont think that should  get BPF off the hook. Its customers  are entitled to be given accurate 
information and they should be able to rely on what they are told. I propose to award  £100  
compensation for that.
VT and BPFs  demand  for a signature
Once it was established that Mr Bs best option  was to VT the agreement, he asked for this 
to be done. That was his statutory right, whether he had paid half of the total amount 
payable under the agreement or not. Section 99(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (so far 
as relevant) reads as follows:
(1) At any time before the final payment  by the debtor  under  a  regulated 
conditional sale agreement  falls due, the debtor shall be entitled  to terminate the 
agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to receive the sums 
payable under the agreement.
The final payment was not yet due, and Mr B was entitled to VT at any time before it was 
due. Section 100(1)  goes  on to say that where  a regulated  CSA is terminated under section 
99, the debtor (Mr B) shall be liable to pay to the creditor  (BPF) half the total amount payable  
under the agreement (including whatever he has paid already). But section 100 doesnt 
create a condition precedent which must  be satisfied  before the right to terminate under 
section 99 arises. Rather, section 99 is not qualified by section 100, and the latter  section 
only sets out the liability  which is incurred by the debtor once  the right to VT has been  
exercised.
Ref: DRN68904174That means that Mr B was entitled  to VT whether he had paid half of the total amount  
payable under the CSA or not. It was not a question of BPF voluntarily allowing him to VT as 
a concession, as BPF has described it. Once he exercised  the right, BPF was not entitled to 
stop him.
The right to VT is exercised, as section 99(1) says, by giving notice.  Section 189(1) says 
notice means notice  in writing. It doesnt say anything about a signature. I think if 
Parliament had intended a signature  to be a prerequisite for a section  99 notice to be 
effective, then it could  easily  have said so. But I can find no statutory requirement for such  a 
notice to be signed.
(I can see no requirement for a signature  in the terms and conditions  of the CSA. But if there  
is one and I have  just missed it, then section 173 of the Act would make such  a term void.)
Mr B exercised his right to VT in a letter dated  28 January 2017. It is headed Voluntary 
termination of HP agreement.  I will set out the first two sentences in full:
Im exercising my right to terminate this agreement under section 99 of the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
I understand that Ill be liable to you for the amount  calculated under  the formula in 
section 100 of the Act.
His meaning was unequivocal.  As I have said already,  the letter was not signed, but the 
Consumer Credit Act does not require such a letter to be signed.  I therefore  find that this 
letter was an effective  VT notice which complied with the provisions of section 99.
It is important  to keep in mind that the effect of a section  99 notice is that it immediately 
terminates the agreement.  It is not a request by the debtor to the creditor to terminate  the 
agreement, which the creditor may or may not comply with, or which  requires further action 
by either  party before  it takes effect. Mr Bs letter was received by BPF on 1 February 2017 
(it is stamped as received  on that date).  So I find that the CSA was terminated on that date, 
and that Mr Bs outstanding liability to BPF was thereafter limited  to the amount prescribed 
by section 100.
It follows that BPFs letter in April purporting to terminate the agreement was of no effect,  
since the agreement  had already been terminated. 
It also follows that any question of voluntary surrender became moot. That process had 
ceased to be relevant.  (I will come  back to this later.)
In its letter  asking for a signature, BPF said that if Mr B proceeded with VT then his liability 
would be £20,090.41. I cant see how that figure  was arrived  at.
By my own calculation, the total amount payable under the agreement was the total credit 
provided (£49,913.02) plus the total cost of credit (£19,566.18) plus the deposit (£5,650) = 
£75,129:20. (A different figure  is given  on the agreement itself, but I think  that it is wrong.) 
Half of that is £37,564.60. It is not in dispute  that by 2 March 2017 (the date of BPFs letter),  
Mr B had paid BPF a total of £17,758:20. I have checked that figure  myself and it is correct.  
So £37,564.60 minus £17,758:20 = £19,806.40 left to pay.
Since then,  Mr B has paid another  four £1 token  payments (on 9 March and in the following 
three months), and the outstanding balance has been reduced  by the sale of the caravan for 
Ref: DRN68904175£12,825. This has, according to BPF, left him with a total outstanding  balance of £44,562. (If 
we ignore VT for a moment,  then I agree that this would be the correct figure.)
However, if VT had gone ahead  in March 2017,  as it should have done, then the amount 
Mr B would have been required to pay would  not have been  reduced by the sale price  of the 
caravan, as this is only relevant to VS. Under VT, the caravan is returned, but what  happens 
to it next is irrelevant to the debtor. Whatever BPF sold it on for, Mr Bs liability under section 
100 would still be the same.
It is therefore not necessary for me to consider Mr Bs complaint about how much BPF re-
sold the caravan  for.
In order to put this matter  right, Mr Bs liability should be reduced  to what it would have been  
if VT had happened  on 1 February 2017, taking into account the £4 he has paid since  then  
£19,802.40. (This represents a deduction of £24,759.60.) His credit file should  be amended 
accordingly.
the court action,  delay,  and VS
Mr B did not return the keys until August  2017,  after BPF had commenced court action. 
However, court action  was not necessary, because section  90(1)  which  prohibits 
repossession without a court order in certain circumstances  did not apply.  It did not apply 
for two reasons. Firstly,  it had ceased  to apply when Mr B terminated  the agreement. Section 
90(5) says:
(5) Subsection (1) shall not apply, or shall cease to apply,  to an agreement  if the 
debtor has terminated, or terminates, the agreement.
Secondly, section  90(1) had never  been  relevant  in the first place. That subsection  prohibits 
a creditor from repossessing goods without  a court order, but only if the debtor has paid one 
third or more of the total price of the goods.  In July, when legal action began,  Mr B had not 
yet paid that much. So even though BPF didnt  realise that Mr B had voluntarily terminated 
the agreement  and that subsection (5) disapplied subsection (1), it still ought  to have 
realised that court action was not necessary to repossess the caravan.
I have also taken into account BPFs letter  dated 2 March 2017. In that letter, BPF said that 
as soon as it received  a signed  letter from Mr B confirming  that he had removed his 
belongings from the caravan and that he wanted to VT the agreement, the caravan park 
would change the locks on the vehicle. That letter did not ask him to hand over the keys,  and 
in a phone  call in January  2017 the caravan park had told Mr B that it had master keys.  So 
I infer that it would have  been possible to repossess the caravan without Mr Bs keys. 
I therefore dont  think it was necessary to seek a court order  to compel  Mr B to surrender the 
keys.
Mr B was not charged for BPFs legal fees or court fees, and he did not incur  any fees 
himself, so the court proceedings caused him no financial loss. However the institution of 
proceedings must have caused  him some distress. I have therefore  considered  whether 
some compensation should be awarded  for that.
However, BPFs termination letter in April specifically and unequivocally asked Mr B to return  
the keys. I think that superseded  any earlier communication between them. Mr B says he did 
not return the keys because  he did not receive that letter. Mr B also says that he did not 
Ref: DRN68904176receive BPFs default notice in March. They were  correctly addressed, so it isnt BPFs  fault 
if he did not receive them. I think it is unlikely that he did not receive either  of them.  But even 
if he didnt receive them,  if he didnt hear anything  from BPF after 2 March  then I would 
expect him to have  contacted BPF earlier than July, to find out what  was happening.
In fact, Mr B says he did do that. He says that he sent BPF a letter dated 20 March asking it 
what he had to do next, and specifically asking  what he should  do with the keys. He says he 
received no reply (BPF says it didnt  receive this letter). I dont  think  that is an excuse to do 
nothing until July. I think that on receiving no reply,  he could either have chased BPF for a 
response, or just sent them the keys on his own initiative, since he didnt need them  
anymore. So, although I have explained that the court proceedings were unnecessary 
anyway, Mr B could have avoided them. I therefore  dont  think it would be fair to award 
compensation for that, or for the delay between March and August.
Although I have found that BPF erred in demanding Mr Bs signature, because it was not a 
legal requirement,  I still think that Mr B could have avoided the delay, and the VT/VS issue,  if 
he had simply sent BPF a signed VT letter in response to its request to do so. He doesnt 
say whether his letter  dated  20 March was signed, but I find that it probably wasnt,  because 
of what he said in another letter  to BPF dated 5 August (in which  he rebuked BPF for not 
telling him about  the need for his signature). In fact, BPFs letter dated 2 March  was clear. It 
said:
Before we go any further please send  in a signed  letter confirming that your 
belongings have been removed and you are happy for the voluntary termination to 
go ahead.
As I have said before,  Mr B says he did receive  that letter. It isnt BPFs fault that Mr B 
missed the word signed.  So although  BPF was wrong to insist  on a signature, I think Mr B 
could have mitigated  the impact of this error  if he had just done what  BPF had asked. So 
I do not propose to award any more compensation that I have already outlined  above.
lost complaint  letters
Finally, Mr B has complained about  BPF losing his complaint letters.  BPF has apologised to 
him for this and paid him £25. I think that is fair, and I am not minded to order BPF to do 
more about that.
my provisional decision
So my provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to 
any further representations I receive from the parties  by the date below,  I currently  intend to 
order Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to:
Reduce Mr Bs outstanding balance by £24,759.60,
Amend his credit file to show that the conditional sale agreement was voluntarily 
terminated by him on 1 February  2017,
Pay Mr B £100 for his trouble,  without off-setting this payment against the balance of 
his account.
responses to my provisional  decision
BPF agreed  to the redress I had proposed (subject to Mr B accepting  my decision).
Ref: DRN68904177Mr B did not accept my decision. He made the following points:
VT had not been  his best option. It would have been better for him if he could have 
sold the caravan  himself.  This would have  enabled  him to clear all of the loan,  and 
maybe even make  a profit.
He should  have been able to sell the caravan himself, because  the loan was 
unsecured and was not a CSA. He referred  to a BPF record  which  described  the loan 
as an unsecured personal loan. He also referred to the suppliers Combined 
Purchase & Licence Agreement, the terms and conditions of which  state that the 
caravan may be sold, and a letter from the supplier (in September 2016) to the same 
effect. This supported his case that the supplier  had told him in 2014 that he could 
sell it (the misrepresentation  complaint).
He wouldnt have  bought the caravan  if he had known that he couldnt  sell it. He had 
relied on being able to sell it, because he was concerned about whether he could 
afford it.
BPF had not done any creditworthiness checks when he took the loan, which it was 
required to do by regulations.
He had never signed the CSA, so therefore it had not been properly executed  and 
was unenforceable.
He had asked  for a copy of the CSA in a phone call in late October 2016, but this had 
never been provided to him until the court proceedings,  in 2017 (which  was 
unsigned). It was therefore unenforceable, and a court would  have had no discretion 
to permit its enforcement.  
Since it was not possible to provide  him with a signed  copy,  because  none existed, 
then the whole loan was permanently  unenforceable and he should not owe 
anything. In support of this argument, he cited some  rules  (known  as CONC)  made 
by the Financial Conduct Authority.
He provided medical evidence  to show how his health had suffered as a result  of the 
stress caused to him by this ordeal.
The supplier had pressured him and had not been transparent  in its dealings.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was Mr B entitled to sell the caravan?
I asked BPF for its comments  on the record provided to me by Mr B, which describes the 
loan as an unsecured personal  loan. In its reply,  BPF pointed  out that the document  is dated  
5 October 2017, presumably  because that was when it was sent to Mr B in response  to his 
data subject access request. That date is after the caravan was surrendered.  Therefore the 
CSA had ceased to be secured on the caravan,  and had also ceased to be a CSA and 
become a personal loan. BPF said this document would have described the loan as secured 
before the caravan was surrendered. I accept  that explanation.
BPF also provided a copy of the CSA with Mr Bs signature on it. (I have arranged for this to 
be sent to him.)
Ref: DRN68904178The credit agreement describes itself as a conditional sale agreement regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its terms and conditions say that Mr B must not sell, pledge, 
charge, assign (transfer),  sublet or otherwise dispose of the vehicle or attempt to do so.
A CSA is defined by section 189(1) of that Act as follows (emphasis added):
 conditional sale agreement  means an agreement for the sale of goods or land 
under which the purchase price or part of it is payable by instalments, and the 
property in the goods  or land is to remain in the seller (notwithstanding that the 
buyer is to be in possession of the goods or land)  until such conditions as to the 
payment of instalments  or otherwise as may be specified in the agreement are 
fulfilled.
I am therefore satisfied  that Mr B was not entitled to sell the caravan  himself (I will come  
back to when he knew that), and that his only options were VT or VS. Since he made it very 
clear that he wanted  to VT in his letter to BPF dated  28 January 2017, I am not now going to 
decide whether  VT or VS was his best option.  I am satisfied that he understood what  VT 
was, and that his decision  to VT was an informed and rational  one.
I have read the suppliers  terms and conditions, and its subsequent  letter  in 2016,  which  both 
said that Mr B could sell the caravan. I think the suppliers terms and conditions are standard  
terms which it gives to all its customers however they pay for the caravan and site. Clause 6, 
which is about selling a caravan, was superseded by the CSA, which  was a separate 
agreement between Mr B and BPF. I think the suppliers letter  in 2016 was a mistake,  and 
BPF isnt liable for that. So these two documents dont change  my mind about whether Mr B 
owned the caravan or was entitled to sell it.
when did Mr B know he couldnt sell the caravan?
Mr B says he was not provided with a copy of the agreement at the time, and that despite 
later asking BPF for a copy,  he was not given  one until the court proceedings in 2017.  He 
also says that the supplier  told him at the point of sale that if he got into financial difficulty  
later, he could sell the caravan himself. He says he would not have bought the caravan if he 
had known that this was in fact untrue. He therefore  argues that this was a 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Mr B also says that the supplier did not carry out creditworthiness  checks, but I cannot hold 
BPF liable for that, or for most of the other  points  he has made about the supplier. However, 
under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  I can hold BPF liable for any 
misrepresentation by the supplier about the finance agreement  before it was made.
Section 56 doesnt  apply  to the suppliers  2016 letter, because that was written two years 
later. But the letter  is evidence which supports Mr Bs case that the supplier misled him in 
2014.
On the other hand, BPF has now provided  a copy of the conditional sale agreement signed 
by Mr B. So on balance,  I think he must  have  known it was a CSA at the time, and has since 
forgotten (perhaps  because of what the supplier unhelpfully said in its terms and conditions  
and in the 2016 letter).  I have also taken into account the pre-contract information,  which  
says: Conditional sale. This means  we buy the vehicle on your behalf, and you make  
payments to us.
Ref: DRN68904179I recognise that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr B. But Im afraid I am still of the 
view that there is not enough evidence to uphold a complaint about misrepresentation of the 
finance agreement.
(Before I move on from this topic,  I will say that it is apparent from Mr Bs VT letter  that, by 
the time he wrote it, he understood what VT was, and that he didnt own the caravan. 
I accept that there was a period after he bought  it when he didnt realise that, but by the time 
he asked to VT it he knew that selling it himself  was not an alternative.  So I think  his decision 
to VT was an informed  one.)
BPFs failure to provide a signed  copy of the CSA
Mr B says he asked BPF for a copy of the finance agreement  in a phone  call in October 
2016. However, he says he did not receive  one until a year later, after the court proceedings 
had started. He has not received a copy with his own signature on it until now. He therefore 
argued that the agreement was never properly executed, but since I have now seen a copy 
with his signature I cannot agree  with that. I can however still consider whether BPF 
complied with section  77 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Section 77 says that if the debtor asks the creditor in writing  for a copy of an executed  fixed-
sum credit agreement,  and pays a fee of £1, then the creditor must give him a copy. CONC 
13.1.4 says There is no obligation  to provide a copy which  includes a copy of the signature.
If the creditor fails to comply with the request, then the agreement  becomes unenforceable  
until the request  is complied with. That does not extinguish the debtors liability, however.
I dont think that Mr B ever paid BPF £1, but he could hardly know  that he had to unless he 
was told. I think BPF should have told him what he had to do in the phone call when he first 
asked it for a copy of the agreement. If it had, then I think he would have complied with the 
conditions of section  77 and submitted a proper application. I wont  speculate about whether 
BPF would then have  sent him a copy of the CSA. But as a result  of not telling him what  
section 77 required,  Mr B was without  a copy of the agreement for about  a year.
It follows that until October 2017,  BPF was not entitled to take steps to enforce  the 
agreement.
That does not mean that Mr B should  not have made any payments for that period,  because 
he still owed BPF the arrears. Nor does  it mean  that BPF was not entitled  to ask him to keep 
making payments,  because that is not enforcing the agreement. However, starting court  
action is enforcing the agreement, and even the court cannot permit enforcement while  a 
creditor is in default  of section 77 (see CONC  13.1.6(1)).
I am therefore reinforced in my opinion that BPF was wrong  to begin court  proceedings. But 
for the same reasons  I gave in my provisional  decision, I still think  that Mr B could have 
avoided the court action by returning the keys, and so I will not award compensation for that.
However, on reflection,  I think it would  be fair to award slightly  more compensation for BPF 
not sending him a copy of the CSA when he first asked for it  even though that was only in 
a phone call, and even though he had seen it before. I think  £50 is fair compensation for 
that.
Ref: DRN689041710the effect on Mr Bs health
Mr B has explained that his health  suffered as a result of the stress brought about  by 
everything that happened. He has supplied medical  evidence in support of what he has told 
us. I was sorry to read about it.
However, I dont think I could accurately or fairly  distinguish between how much illness was 
brought about by stress caused by things BPF did  such  as the court proceedings  and 
how much  would have  happened anyway due to things outside of BPFs control,  such  as 
Mr B and his wife losing  their jobs. So I make no findings about that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Clydesdale Financial Services  
Limited to:
Reduce Mr Bs outstanding balance by £24,759.60,
Amend his credit file to show that the conditional sale agreement was voluntarily 
terminated by him on 1 February  2017,
Pay Mr B £150 for his trouble,  without off-setting this payment against the balance of 
his account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.  However, my final decision concludes this 
Services consideration of this complaint,  which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6890417