K820x#14complaint
Mr S, on behalf of the estate of Mrs S, has complained that Hartwell Finance Limited (HFL) 
mis-sold Mrs S a retail  price protection insurance  policy. Such policies are commonly  
referred to as guaranteed  asset protection (GAP) policies. So for ease  Ill refer to the policy  
as a GAP policy  in this decision.
Reference to HFL includes its agents. 
background
In 2015 Mrs S bought a car and at the same time took out a GAP policy. Mrs S sadly died in 
2018. At that time Mr S found out about  the GAP policy. He later complained  to us that HFL 
had mis-sold it. Our investigator didn't think HFL had done anything  wrong.  Mr S didn't agree 
so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points. I've considered  
everything hes said carefully but in this decision I've focused on what I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our investigators  assessments  of the complaint. 
Mrs S GAP policy covered her for a three  year term. And she would have been eligible to 
claim from it if her motor  insurer deemed  her car a total loss and paid her its market  value 
within those three years.  In those circumstances the GAP policy  would pay the difference 
between the motor insurers settlement and the higher of the outstanding finance on the car 
or its invoice  price.   
Mr S said that Mrs S comprehensive motor insurance policy offered new car replacement if 
her car was deemed a total loss within the first two years. And if her motor insurer had 
provided a new car then Mrs S wouldn't have needed to claim on her GAP  policy. So Mr S 
thinks the policy wasn't suitable for her and HFL mis-sold it.
Clearly I wasnt  there when the sale took place so I can't  know  exactly what was discussed. 
But HFL completed a demands and needs  statement,  in which Mrs S said that her motor 
insurer would not cover the cost of a replacement  car or the outstanding finance in the 
second year of her policy. So HFL can't have known at that time it sold the GAP policy that 
Mrs S motor policy covered her for new car replacement for two years. It follows that I don't 
think its fair to say that HFL could  have advised  Mrs S that the policy  would have been of 
reduced value  to her in its second  year. Its also worth noting that a two year term for new 
car replacement isn't something all insurers offer, indeed in my experience its uncommon. 
And Mrs S could have  changed her motor policy after the first year to one that didn't provide 
a replacement car for two years. And if that had happened then the GAP  policy  would have 
provided a greater level of cover.
Mr S said that most motor policies will offer new car replacement in the first 12 months. So 
he said the GAP  policy  would have been  of no value to Mrs S at that time. But the policy 
HFL sold wasn't an annual policy but a three year policy.  So the risk it insured was for the 
Ref: DRN63829272full term of the policy all the way to its expiry after three years. It follows  that while the risks it 
covered might have  been lower in its first year than later on that doesn't  mean that it wasn't  
suitable for Mrs S at all. And based on the information Mrs S gave to HFL when it assessed 
her demands and needs it appeared that the policy would  have  been  suitable for her.
I also think its worth pointing  out that its likely  that the benefit of the policy would increase 
the longer it ran for. Thats because cars generally  lose value as they age and their mileage 
increases. In other words their market  value usually reduces over time.  And as a result the 
difference between  the motor insurers settlement for a cars market  value and its invoice 
price would increase.  That means  any claim towards the end of the GAP  policy  was more 
likely to have paid a higher sum than a claim made  nearer to its start. It follows  that for some 
consumers the appeal of such a policy is the cover it provides in its later years.  So I don't 
think the fact that the policy covers a smaller risk in the first year than later years means it 
was mis-sold.
For completeness Ill add that while  many  motor polices will offer new car replacement  in the 
first 12 months from purchase there  are occasions  when insurers won't replace the car. Im 
aware of a number  of motor policies which specify that they will only provide a new car 
replacement when the cost to repair a damaged  car is above  a specific  percentage of the list 
price of the new car. And its not uncommon for cars to be deemed a total loss in the first 
12 months but not to be covered by the new car replacement terms of the motor policy. So 
motor insurers don't always provide new cars in those  circumstances  and will instead pay 
the market value. And had that been  the case for Mrs S she could have benefited from the 
GAP policy  in its first year.
Similarly, Im aware that occasionally  providers of the finance used to buy the car may object 
to changing the car on the finance  agreement. And in those circumstances it would be usual 
for the motor insurer to settle the claim by paying  the cars market  value.  And in those  
circumstances a claim on the GAP policy would most  likely  have  been  successful. So it's not 
the case that the policy was of no value to Mrs S in its first year.  
It follows that having considered the estates  complaint very carefully Im not persuaded that 
the GAP policy  was mis-sold
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf  of 
the state of Mrs S, to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6382927