K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with TSB Bank plcs handling of their accounts.  They  say TSB 
failed to cancel  a direct debit to Mr Ps credit  card account, didnt help them  when they were 
in financial difficulty,  and its communication was poor  resulting in charges and needless  
trips to a branch. 
background
Mr and Mrs P have  a joint current account with TSB,  Mrs P has a sole current account, and 
Mr P has a credit card account. Mr P contacted TSB on 15 February 2019. He spoke  to 
various staff members on the phone about  his credit card and his financial difficulties. During  
these conversations Mr P asked about  cancelling future direct debits and made  TSB aware  
he was in discussions with a debt advice charity. TSB agreed to refund the February credit 
card direct debit to the joint account.  
In March 2019 Mr P called again after Marchs TSB credit card payment  was taken from the 
joint account. Mr P asked TSB to make an indemnity claim for this direct  debit but it was 
refused. Mr P was unhappy with how he had been  treated so he raised  a complaint. 
In early April 2019 Mr P went to a TSB branch and paid £60 in cash to cover  a direct debit of 
£66.80 due to leave  the joint account.  Despite  making this payment the direct debit was 
returned and Mr and Mrs P were charged. Mr P then had to travel  the next day to a TSB 
branch to make a further payment into Mrs Ps account. 
Unhappy with the way they had been treated by TSB Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint  
to this service. They said they were  unhappy with not being given breathing space with their 
finances and that the £60 Mr P paid into their joint account didnt cover the direct debit due 
to charges TSB applied to the account.  Also that Mr P had to travel  to the branches when he 
could have made a payment over the phone. 
TSB said it hadnt promised Mr and Mrs P breathing  space or that Mr Ps credit  card direct 
debit would be cancelled.  TSB also said the reason  the direct  debit on the joint account  was 
returned was because there  werent  enough funds in the account. 
Our investigator felt TSB had not done anything  wrong. He said Mr P hadnt asked TSB to 
cancel his TSB credit card direct debit so it didnt do anything wrong when it collected 
Marchs credit card payment. And Mr and Mrs P had logged into their online account on 
1 April 2019 so they were  aware of their balance when paying money into the branch to 
cover the £66.80 direct debit. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree. They said they had made a lot of calls to TSB asking for help and 
TSB should have  given  them more  help with their finances. They also said the £60 Mr P paid 
into their joint account didnt cover the direct debit due to charges TSB applied  to the account.  
So this complaint has now been  passed  to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN63329062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. And Ill explain why below. 
Mr Ps credit  card and TSB promising breathing space
When dealing with a customer who is having financial difficulties this service  expects TSB to 
treat them positively and sympathetically. We would expect TSB to help Mr and Mrs P with 
their finances which  can include  (but isnt limited to) freezing interest and charges. I can see 
TSB did freeze interest  and charges on Mr Ps credit  card in April 2019. So I need  to 
consider if it should  have  taken this action sooner, or done any more  to help. 
In his conversation  with TSB in February 2019 I note Mr P did ask about getting his credit 
card payment for February  refunded and if TSB could agree to thirty or sixty days  breathing 
space. He also made TSB aware  he was in discussions with a debt advice charity.  Mr P had 
to end the call but the February  credit  card payment was refunded to his account. And he 
was told by TSB he would  have  to call back  to finish discussing  his financial difficulties. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  of TSB to want to understand Mr Ps overall financial 
situation before deciding  what  steps it could take to help. And I think it made it clear to Mr P 
on the call that he would  need to speak to the credit card collections team  to discuss  
cancelling his credit  card direct debits.  
Ive reviewed the call notes on Mr and Mrs Ps account. Mr P called on 6 March but didnt 
have the time to go through his income and expenditure until 9 March. During the call it was 
confirmed he was overcommitted, and TSB suggested he contact a debt advice charity. TSB 
didnt receive the debt advice charity referral until 2 April 2019. And TSB immediately froze  
interest and charges on the account.
Ive also seen the attempts TSB made  to contact Mr P during February and March to discuss 
his issues. So Im satisfied it did try to help Mr P with his difficulties during this time, and that 
freezing interest  and charges when it did was a fair step for it to have taken. In the 
circumstances, I find I cant fairly conclude that it should have frozen the account any sooner.
I note Mr P is unhappy with the calls that took place on 18 March. Mr P does have my 
sympathy for his situation. And I can understand why he found the calls frustrating. I accept  
he thought he had agreed breathing space with TSB in relation to his finances. However, Im 
persuaded - from the evidence Ive seen  and the calls Ive listened  to - that this wasnt  
agreed. Im satisfied  that TSB had made it clear it wanted to discuss  things further with Mr P 
before agreeing any concessions. So TSB was entitled to take the credit card payment  in 
March. And Ive seen  it did agree to refund this payment to Mr Ps account. 
the current account direct debits 
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy their direct  debit was returned due to TSBs charges on their joint 
account. So I need to consider whether they were  aware of the pending transactions, the 
charges and whether TSB did anything wrong by returning  the direct  debit.  
Ref: DRN63329063The payment Mr P made on 1 April wasnt enough  to cover the outgoings and the overdraft 
charges on the account. Even  though Mr and Mrs P were  struggling financially it was up to 
them to run their accounts within the agreed  overdraft limit to meet their liabilities. As Ive not 
seen any evidence TSB had agreed to freeze Mr and Mrs Ps interest and charges at this 
point Im satisfied it was entitled to add the overdraft charges to the account  and return the 
direct debit due to Mr and Mrs P having insufficient  funds. 
Mr P has mentioned having to go to branch to make  a payment on his wifes account the 
next day. He says he was then told by the branch staff a payment could be made over the 
phone later that day. Im sure this would have been frustrating to hear in the circumstances 
but Im satisfied the branch member was most likely  trying to help. Also the text messages 
TSB sends  - which Ive seen - dont instruct Mr and Mrs P to make a payment in the branch  
in order to keep  their accounts  within  the overdraft limits. 
I understand it wasnt easy for Mr P to get to the branches to make the payments given his 
circumstances. But the terms and conditions do say paying cash  at a branch isnt the only 
way to pay money into the account  on the same day. So Ive seen nothing which suggests 
TSB did anything wrong in relation  to this. Also I can see from the statements that the fees 
and associated charges for the returned  direct debit were put back  into the joint account in 
April 2019, as was the overdraft fee. 
So Im not going to require TSB to take any further action in relation  to this returned direct  debit. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6332906