K821x#15complaint
Ms Gs complaint is about the cancellation  of her UK Insurance  Limited (UKI) pubs  and 
restaurants business protection policy.
Ms G says that she didnt  receive any notice confirming her policy  payments werent being 
received so couldnt do anything to prevent the policy  being  cancelled as a result.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in May 2019, part of which  is copied below:
Ms G took out her UKI policy through a broker in September  2015  and continued to renew  it 
annually. She paid for the policy by direct  debit.
In February 2017  UKI tried to take payment for the policy  but the bank rejected this. UKI 
wrote to Ms G and her broker to explain that payment  couldnt  be taken and that this would 
need to be paid, failing which the policy would be cancelled.  No response was received or 
payment made so UKI wrote to Ms Gs broker two weeks later warning  that if payment 
wasnt received within  seven days, the policy would be cancelled.  Again no payment  or 
response was forthcoming. Ten days later UKI cancelled Ms Gs policy. They wrote to her 
and her broker confirming  this.
Ten days  after the policy  was cancelled, Ms Gs business was forced to close as a result  of a 
gas explosion which caused  considerable damage to the content of her business premises  
as well as loss of earnings. UKI said they werent prepared to consider a claim on the policy 
because theyd cancelled  it.
Ms G says she didnt receive  any correspondence from UKI at all warning her payment 
couldnt be taken  or that the policy had been cancelled. Had she done  so, she says she 
wouldve made sure that payment was made and that the policy remained in place.
Ms Gs broker has confirmed that when they set up the policy, the broker keyed in the wrong 
door number  for Ms Gs business address. He keyed in the door number of a derelict  
building on the same street as Ms Gs business. But despite this Ms G continued to receive 
communications from UKI. Thats because UKI included the business name on those 
communications which made it easy for the postman to identify  the correct  address.  UKI say 
that at some  point they stopped using Ms Gs business name  on correspondence because  
their systems couldnt accommodate the number of characters needed to include this as well 
as Ms Gs name. As a result  they accept that Ms G didnt receive  anything  from them  to 
warn her that payment hadnt  been received or that the policy  would be cancelled.
Our investigator considered Ms Gs complaint and concluded it should be upheld.  She 
directed UKI to consider  Ms Gs claim as if the policy had been in force,  subject to its 
remaining terms.
UKI dont  agree. They say:
If Ms G had corrected the door number on the communications  she was receiving 
and the direct debit  form she signed,  dropping the business name from 
correspondence wouldve made  no difference to her ability  to receive  
communications;
Ref: DRN67002202It was Ms Gs responsibility to ensure her details were correct  and that her payments 
were all up to date;
Letters were sent to both Ms Gs broker and Ms G before the policy  was cancelled so 
UKI did as much  as it could to warn her of the position before cancelling the policy;
Its likely  that Ms Gs bank wouldve warned her there had been a payment default  on 
her account so this shouldve  prompted her to get in touch with UKI.
Because of this Ms Gs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently upholding 
Ms Gs complaint but for different reasons to the investigator.
Its clear that the problem  that prevented Ms G from receiving letters  from UKI was the 
removal of the name of her business  name from communications.  I accept that had the door 
number been  correct, she wouldve still received correspondence  from UKI but this wasnt  
the problem that prevented her from getting  anything from them.  Because of this I agree that 
UKI dropping the business name as a result of a change to their systems  had quite a 
significant impact on Ms G.
UKI have  said that they wrote to Ms Gs broker as well as Ms G so they did enough to warn 
her that payment  couldnt be taken and that the policy would be cancelled.  Ive looked 
carefully at the correspondence UKI say they sent. I can see that they wrote to Ms Gs 
broker on 17 February and 3 March advising that payment couldnt be taken.  On 13 March  
they wrote  again  saying  the policy had been  cancelled. Ms Gs broker  says they didnt 
receive any of the letters  saying  that payment couldnt be taken otherwise they wouldve 
alerted her to this before the policy was cancelled. They accept they received  the letter 
confirming cancellation.  I havent seen anything  to suggest that these  letters were sent by 
recorded delivery in the same way UKI said they wrote  to Ms G. Given  their importance Im 
surprised this wasnt the case.  
And although UKI say they wrote  to Ms G on both 17 February and 3 March, I havent  seen 
anything to support  that a letter was in fact sent to her at all on 3 March;  Ive only seen a 
letter to the broker  of this date. UKI say the letter dated 17 February was returned  to them as 
undeliverable on 13 April - but this was after the policy  had been  cancelled and Ms Gs 
business stopped trading. 
I asked UKI whether  they held a telephone  number  for Ms G. They confirmed they did but 
they wouldnt have  called  her in relation to a default.  Given  the specific  circumstances of this 
complaint, I think it wouldve been reasonable for UKI to pick up on the fact that part of 
Ms Gs address had been removed- the business name  had after all had been used in 
correspondence up until this time.  Because of this and the fact that cancelling the policy  
could have serious consequences for Ms G, I wouldve expected  them to call to check  
whether there was a problem with her payments in this instance. 
When reaching this decision Ive taken into account that UKI experienced problems taking 
payment from Ms G the month  before. As a result  they tried again  and were  successful in 
debiting this amount  from her account.  But in March  they only tried to take payment once 
and didnt try again. I havent seen anything that supports Ms G missing payments for 
premiums between September 2015  and January 2017 so I think its likely that if shed 
Ref: DRN67002203known this had happened,  shed have corrected the position without delay and consequently 
not been left without cover. What  Ive said below confirms my thoughts on this.
UKI have  said that Ms Gs bank wouldve notified  her of problems with payment so this 
shouldve prompted  her to correct the position before her policy was cancelled. Ms G says 
the direct  debit failed  because  she was in the process of changing her account  over,  having  
registered her business  as a limited liability company. From  what  shes said there wasnt  a 
smooth transfer from one account to the other.  And she accepts  that she did receive a letter 
from her bank to notify her that a couple of payments  werent paid out. Shes  told us that she 
went to her bank to correct the problem by paying in funds to ensure there  was enough there  
when sums  were called  for again. Ms G says that this happened in January with a payment 
to UKI so she expected them to call for the direct debit again  in the same way they did then.  
And when  she didnt hear from them  shed assumed the payment was taken as before. 
Given the circumstances and the fact that UKI did call for payment twice in January, I think 
its reasonable that Ms G didnt do anything more  than attend her bank and pay in further 
sums. I also accept that there was no reason for her to think there was a problem when she 
didnt hear anything further from them.
fair compensation
UKI should consider Ms Gs claim under the terms of the policy had it been in force at the 
time of the event  which caused her business  to close. They should also pay her interest  of 
8% per year simple* from one month after Ms Gs business closed until the date that any 
claim is paid to her.
When making this award I take on board that UKI might think theyre not entirely culpable for 
the problems Ms G faced  in receiving communications from them which  ultimately led to the 
cancellation of her policy. Its a matter  for them whether they wish to seek  an indemnity from 
another organisation for part of any claim they might pay to Ms G. UKI should ensure that if 
they choose to do this, it doesnt delay the payment of any claim to Ms G.
* I understand that UKI is required to deduct  basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Ms G needs  to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More  information about the tax position can be found on our website.
developments
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
Both parties  have responded.  Ms G has said she agrees with my assessment. Shes also 
provided me with a copy of a letter UKI addressed to her on 17 June 2017.  That letter 
contains both her name and the business name  as well as her full address. Ms G says that 
this is inconsistent with UKIs previous position  that their systems couldnt accommodate 
both her name, the business name and the full address. She feels this is evidence  that it was 
possible for UKI to do this before her policy was cancelled.
UKI has also responded with a number of submissions. Ive summarised  what  theyve said 
as follows:
UKI isnt responsible  for undelivered mail once  it has left them. 
Ref: DRN67002204Its strange that the postman knows Ms G and delivers post to her even though  the 
business name is not on correspondence  until the default letters are sent.
UKI have  three recorded delivery numbers  on the default letters sent to Ms G proving 
they were sent. One of the letters was signed for by one of her customers  so the other  
letters couldve been delivered successfully but UKI have no way of confirming this.
Ms G shouldve  disclosed  that she was changing  bank accounts to UKI as they were  
applying the bank account they had on file. She accepts she didnt get a letter  from her 
bank about the default but this is not UKIs fault.
The broker was aware of the defaults  so shouldve made Ms G aware of this. The fact 
that they didnt  was beyond UKIs  control.
Whilst Ms G says she assumed payments were  leaving her account, it was her 
responsibility to manage this which is out of UKIs control.
The provisional decision puts a lot of emphasis  on what  UKI did rather  than the actions 
of Ms G and her broker; Ms G is a businesswoman and has a responsibility to ensure 
her accounts are in order.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. 
In my provisional decision I made it clear that the problem that prevented  Ms G from 
receiving her mail wasnt the wrong door number;  it was the removal  of the business  name  
from correspondence by UKI. Thats why I think UKI did something wrong and should do 
something to put things  right. But I also accepted that UKI might  think theyre not entirely  
culpable for the problems  Ms G faced in receiving  communications from them  which 
ultimately led to the cancellation of her policy. Because of that I pointed out that it was up to 
them whether they wanted to seek an indemnity from another organisation for part of any 
claim they might pay to Ms G. Because of that and what I said in my provisional  decision I 
wont be commenting any further on correspondence UKI says they sent to Ms Gs broker.  
And I dont  think its correct that I said the postman knew Ms G. Rather my provisional  
decision set out that Ms G had told us that when the name of her business was recorded on 
correspondence, it was easier for the postman to identify  the correct  address, even when the 
door number  was wrong. Thats  why she asserts she didnt receive the default letters. And 
its not in dispute that the business name  was dropped when these were sent out. So based 
on what shes said, I think its plausible that she wouldve been  receiving  post from UKI up to 
the point where  the business  name was dropped, even when the door number was wrong  on 
those letters.
UKI are now saying that three letters were  sent to Ms G by recorded  delivery  and one was 
signed for by one of her customers. They havent made this assertion so far and I havent 
seen anything that supports this. In my provisional decision I made the point that UKI hadnt 
provided anything  to confirm theyd sent any default notices to Ms G by recorded delivery at 
all. And the only letter  UKI have referred  to being  returned to them  as undeliverable was the 
one of 17 February 2017 which advises  that payment couldnt be taken. Im not sure what 
the letter UKI now says was signed for by Ms Gs client contained or when it was sent. 
Without sight of any evidence to confirm this, I cant comment on it. So it doesnt affect my 
findings.
Ref: DRN67002205I appreciate that UKI feels Ms G shouldve  confirmed to them that she was changing  bank 
accounts - and I agree that that wouldve been prudent. But I dont think  that her failure to do 
so was the problem in this case. It seems  to me that the existing account was working,  there 
just werent enough  funds  in it at the time that UKI applied for payment. I think that if Ms G 
had received correspondence  from UKI explaining this then she wouldve put things right by 
putting that account in funds in the same way she did the preceding month  when her bank 
notified her of the problem. 
I also accept that it was Ms Gs responsibility  to manage her account.  But for the reasons I 
set out in my provisional decision, I think she did that as best she could, once  she became 
aware there  were problems with it.
I know that UKI havent seen a copy of the letter Ms G has provided  dated 17 June 2017.  
But they will have a copy as it was sent by them. I think the fact that that letter contains both 
her name and the business name is good evidence that UKI were  always  able to include 
these in correspondence so I wouldve expected them to override  their systems they said 
prevented them from entering these  details when they sent Ms G default  letters.
fair compensation
UKI should consider Ms Gs claim under the terms of the policy had it been in force at the 
time of the event  which caused her business  to close. They should also pay her interest  of 
8% per year simple* from one month after Ms Gs business closed until the date that any 
claim is paid to her.
When making this award I take on board that UKI might think theyre not entirely culpable for 
the problems Ms G faced  in receiving communications from them which  ultimately led to the 
cancellation of her policy. Its a matter  for them whether they wish to seek  an indemnity from 
another organisation for part of any claim they might pay to Ms G. UKI should ensure that if 
they choose to do this, it doesnt delay the payment of any claim to Ms G.
* I understand that UKI is required to deduct  basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Ms G needs  to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More  information about the tax position can be found on our website.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Ms Gs complaint  against  U K Insurance Limited and 
direct it to comply with my award of fair compensation .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6700220