K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J complained  about how long it was taking Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar)  Limited  
to resolve their water damage claim, and that they were left to live in the house when driers 
were in place and asbestos was found.
background 
There was a leak from a pipe in Mr and Mrs Js bathroom on 29 August 2018. Mr and Mrs J 
made a claim to Admiral.  An assessor visited the property and a loss adjuster was 
appointed, along with contractors to arrange  stripping  and drying the property. On 31 August  
Mr J declined an offer to move out of his home.
On 4 and 5 September it was identified  that an asbestos test would be needed and that 
there might be an issue with the floor structure that was unrelated  to the claim. The asbestos  
test proved positive. Arrangements  were made  to seal off the room that contained the 
asbestos material and for the asbestos to be removed.  An initial removal appointment didnt 
go ahead. It was re-booked for a few days later. 
On 3 October,  following  some further investigations,  Admiral spoke to Mr J and explained  
that there  was damage to the floor structure that hadnt been caused  by the leak.  It said he 
would need to cover the cost of fixing this. Admiral followed  this up with a letter containing 
the adjusters  report on the damage, dated  9 November  2018.
In the meantime, and following this, Admiral  asked for various  pieces of evidence from 
Mr and Mrs J to try and further the claim.  This included estimates and further breakdowns  of 
estimates to try and determine what it would cost Mr and Mrs J to repair the damage that 
had resulted from the leak (which didnt include repairs to the floor structure).   
Around this time Mr and Mrs J complained to Admiral about  the progress of their claim. On 
31 December Admiral  wrote to Mr and Mrs J. It said it hadnt yet been able to complete its 
complaint investigations. It gave  them  permission  to now complain to this service. 
Mr and Mrs J made  a complaint to us the same  day. They  said they were still living with the 
mess as their claim  hadnt been  resolved and they wanted all their costs paying for repairs 
and damaged contents. They said Admiral  hadnt  offered  to move them out of the property  
even though it knew asbestos  was present and was a risk to their health. 
Admiral then, whilst our complaint process  was progressing, provided  a final response  on 
the complaint.  That was dated 1 February 2019.  Admiral confirmed that Mr and Mrs J had 
complained to it regarding the settlement offer it had made  (to that point but not paid)  for 
building repairs. This included it not having  responded  regarding the quotes theyd provided, 
that they hadnt been offered alternative  accommodation and had to live with driers and 
asbestos in their property,  also that there  had been various delays.
Admiral accepted that there had been  delays and that it should have made some payments 
sooner  including offering a disturbance allowance to cover the extra  costs  incurred when  
the kitchen couldnt be used. It said it would  pay that then, plus interest. Admiral apologised 
and offered £150 compensation. It didnt accept it had otherwise failed Mr and Mrs J.
When our investigator assessed  the complaint she noted the claim had moved  on somewhat 
following the final response  a further repair settlement had been  offered and disputes had 
arisen about settlements due for contents  items. She said Admiral should arrange  to appoint 
Ref: DRN66896672another loss adjuster to review these issues. Admiral agreed  and duly did so. Mr and Mrs J 
said they remained unhappy and a new investigator explained that Admiral hadnt yet issued  
a final response regarding the points  it had reviewed  we had assisted  in moving the claim 
on but if Mr and Mrs J remained  unhappy, theyd need to make a further complaint about the 
currently offered and disputed settlement values.
Regarding the way Admiral had handled the claim the initial investigator noted that 
Mr and Mrs J had been offered alternative  accommodation. And also that the area 
containing asbestos had been sealed  off. But she felt the cancelled appointment had caused  
distress and inconvenience. She also felt Admiral had delayed  making  claim payments.  She 
felt Admiral should pay a further £100 compensation. Admiral agreed.  Mr and Mrs J did not.
The complaint was passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J feel Admiral is unfairly refusing to cover  part of their claim. But 
having considered the evidence available regarding the floor I think  Admirals  response is 
reasonable. Mr and Mrs J suffered a one-off, significant escape of water. But within  a few 
days of this occurring  the floor was inspected and the timbers were found  to be suffering  
advanced decay.  I think its reasonable to say that is unlikely to have happened as a result of 
the sudden and recent water leak. And I havent  seen any expert evidence that suggests 
otherwise. So I cant  reasonably  require Admiral to accept liability for this damage.
Because Mr and Mrs J had indicated they were unhappy with Admirals offer of settlement 
for the building  work it didnt initially pay this to them. But I see its final response  said it 
would send it to them anyway. I think that was reasonable of it, just because Mr and Mrs J 
feel they should get more  doesnt mean they shouldnt benefit from the (lower) sum Admiral 
is satisfied it is liable  for. 
I see that Admiral did respond  about  the estimate Mr and Mrs J had provided. It felt it 
contained work it wasnt liable for completing and asked  that a breakdown  of the costs  for 
each element of the repair was provided. It wasnt unreasonable for Admiral  to ask for this. 
Admiral did offer to move Mr and Mrs J out of their home but they wanted to stay there. I see 
Mr J has said such an offer should  have been  made  in writing but wasnt.  I wouldnt expect 
an offer like this to be made in writing. Admiral  did agree to pay them  a disturbance  
allowance (to cover  extra costs incurred as a result of living in the damaged  home).  
Asbestos can present  a risk to health  and it is unfortunate  the original visit to remove  the 
materials which contained it didnt  go ahead as planned. But I note the area had been 
sealed off anyway, and Mr and Mrs J had been  happy to stay there  in the run-up to the first 
booked visit to remove it. I havent  seen that, at that time, their view on doing  this changed 
when that appointment didnt go ahead as planned,  or that, if it did, they let Admiral or its 
adjuster know that. From  what  Ive seen it had no reason  to think  Mr and Mrs Js needs  
might have changed and no reason think the home  was uninhabitable (because the 
asbestos risk was secured). 
Ref: DRN66896673But I accept that the visit not going ahead was distressing and inconvenient for 
Mr and Mrs J. They  werent told no-one was coming until late in the day when they called to 
see what was happening. 
As I said above, Admiral  did say in its final response  letter that it would  send the amount it 
had offered for building  repairs. But that letter was issued in February  2019  and it had 
initially offered that sum in early  November 2018.  Further, whilst Admiral had offered to pay 
a disturbance allowance to Mr and Mrs J, and pay for the electricity  used  whilst  drying  the 
property. These payments  werent  made until February 2019  either.
To the point of the final response  letter as well, Admiral hadnt made any payment in respect 
of contents items. Whilst that claim was still clearly  under review,  I think,  similar to the 
buildings settlements, it could have made some payment  to Mr and Mrs J as there was no 
doubt items were  damaged and needed replacing.   
I accept that having  no settlement at all from Admiral, especially in the run up to the holiday 
season, was likely  distressing and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs J, upset which Admiral could 
and should have avoided. 
Im satisfied that Admiral  should pay a total of £250  compensation  to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr and Mrs J. If it has paid the £150 it offered 
previously already, it wont have to pay this part of the £250  award again.
I understand that Mr and Mrs J would  like us to decide on the final settlement amount due to 
them for the buildings and contends claim as part of this complaint and decision. 
Unfortunately, Im not able to do that. Mr and Mrs J complained to us in December 2018  and 
Admiral issued its final response on their complaint points at that time in February 2019. 
That is the complaint that I can consider. Im sorry for any upset this causes Mr and Mrs J 
but I cant assess what has happened since that time within  this complaint. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs J 
£250 total compensation (if £150 has been paid already only the £100 outstanding will need  
to be paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6689667