K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the service  provided by BUPA insurance Limited. 
background
Mr and Mrs C had a private medical insurance policy with Bupa UK for a number of years. 
This covered their daughter too. They moved to Alderney and transferred to a Bupa  Global  
policy in 2011.  
Mr and Mrs C have complained that the policy wasnt suitable for them.  They say:
It included worldwide  cover and they had simply asked for a policy  equivalent to the one 
they had in the UK. A Guernsey product was available which wasnt discussed.
The premiums were  expensive and were taken without their knowledge or authorisation. 
Exclusions were wrongly added for both Mr C and Mrs C although Mrs Cs exclusion was 
later removed.  
Bupa  recorded  incorrect medical  information about their daughter which may affect  her 
future. 
Bupa  informed Mr and Mrs C that their data had been compromised following a breach  
by a member of staff and this was shortly  after Mr and Mrs C complained.
Bupa  says it didnt  receive their complaint letter and so Mr and Mrs C didnt get a timely  
response.
Bupa looked  into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint but didnt accept it had done  anything wrong. 
Unhappy with its response, Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator looked into the complaint  but didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with our investigators  view and made  the following points, in 
summary:
The premiums were  taken by Bupa using debit card details given  over the phone  
and Mr and Mrs C never  signed or used a bank direct debit instruction for premiums. 
The card details  werent provided  for continuing  payments to be deducted  without 
notice or permission, they were supplied for individual payments.
They didnt authorise Bupa to take the payments for global insurance cover which 
they didnt need  or want, they wanted equivalent  cover  to what  they had in the UK.
And so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr and Mrs 
Cs complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Bupa has made a number of comments in its response to the complaint, which Ive 
summarised and taken into account  as follows:
The initial sales call is no longer available as records  are only kept for seven years. 
But Bupa  say its standard during sales calls to explain  that a credit card must  be 
Ref: DRN69986552registered on the policy to collect any shortfalls. In addition, premiums are collected 
automatically to ensure  timely payment and prevent undue suspension. 
Renewal documents each year confirm payments and any balance will be collected  
from the credit card registered  on the policy. 
Renewals confirm membership continues  automatically.
When Bupa Global takes on new business  from Bupa UK, it asks members what  
their demands and needs are. However, in this case, the initial sales  call is no longer 
available so Bupa  doesnt know whether the Guernsey product was discussed. But 
this included worldwide  and USA cover so wouldnt have  been offered as Mr and Mrs 
C didnt want USA cover.
When Mr and Mrs C transferred  from Bupa  UK to Bupa Global, no new underwriting 
was added but existing exclusions were carried over. An exclusion for Mr Cs pre-
existing melanoma was applied  when he was with Bupa UK and transferred to the 
Bupa Global policy.
Mr Cs exclusion  had no bearing  on his policy premiums.
An incorrect claim for Mr and Mrs Cs daughter was logged  in error but removed and 
an email was sent to Mrs C confirming the actions  taken.
Bupa  has said it will consider any evidence which  shows  that it has given information 
to other  insurers, when it shouldnt have. It confirms no information has been  shared 
with other insurers. 
Bupa  explained it has a duty to inform  Mr and Mrs C of any claims made by 
healthcare providers even after a policy has lapsed. Bupa  has offered to apply a 
permanent document  hold if they dont want to receive any such correspondence 
again.
In its response to the complaint, Bupa apologised if Mr and Mrs Cs experience 
overall wasnt satisfactory.
I will now deal with each of the complaints in turn.
Incorrect cover including USA  cover and no advice about Channel Islands  policy  
Mr and Mrs C thought  their worldwide cover included USA cover which is why their 
premiums were high. However,  Ive seen the membership certificates which  confirm  the USA 
was excluded. 
Mr and Mrs C have also said that they didnt want or need worldwide cover, they simply 
wanted a policy equivalent to the one they had in the UK. The initial call is no longer 
available so I dont  know what  was discussed  at the time. But Im satisfied that the policy 
documentation and the membership certificates  clearly show that Mr and Mrs C had 
worldwide cover. If this wasnt  suitable  for their needs, they could have cancelled the policy 
at an earlier  stage or brought it to Bupas attention to discuss  whether there were any 
suitable alternatives. 
Mr and Mrs C say they should have been  offered the Guernsey  plan,  a policy  which was 
available for residents of the Channel  Islands, and was a cheaper option than the policy  they 
were sold.  However, the Guernsey Plan was only available  to new members  under the age 
of 60  and so Mr and Mrs C werent  eligible for this. In addition,  Bupa say the Guernsey 
plan would have  included USA cover which Mr and Mrs C didnt want and so its unlikely this 
would have been suitable. 
Premium increases and premiums taken without authorisation
Ref: DRN69986553Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the premium  increases when they transferred  over to BUPA 
Global. They say the payments were taken without  their authorisation. However, Mr and Mrs 
C received policy  renewal documents every year, which  would have detailed  the premiums  
payable and the method of payment. In addition, their bank statements would  have clearly  
shown the payments being taken out each year. Ive seen the renewal documents  which 
confirmed the payments  would be taken using the card details on file  and so Im not 
persuaded that Bupa took the payments  without  authorisation. 
The policy increases were also detailed within the renewal  documents  sent to Mr and Mrs C. 
If Mr and Mrs C werent happy with the level of increases, I would have expected them  to 
have raised this with Bupa. Bupa has confirmed that the exclusions had no bearing on the 
premiums paid. Bupa has confirmed it bases its premiums on general  factors such  as age, 
location and medical inflation. And so Im satisfied that Bupa acted reasonably  here. 
Exclusions applied to policy 
Mr and Mrs C say Bupa wrongly  applied  exclusions  to their policies when they transferred 
over to the Bupa Global policy.
For Mrs C, an exclusion  relating to her knee was applied.  Bupa asked Mrs C to provide 
details of the problem and treatment  she had  it was satisfied with the explanation provided 
by Mrs C and subsequently removed the exclusion, which  I consider  is reasonable. 
For Mr C, the exclusion  related to melanoma. Ive seen correspondence  between Bupa and 
Mr and Mrs C in August 2012 relating to this. The underwriter confirmed it needed further  
information from Mr Cs consultant to consider removing the exclusion. The exclusion had 
been carried over from the Bupa UK policy which Mrs C says was an error as she felt the 
consultant may have  mis-categorised Mr Cs check-ups. Mrs C said she would obtain the 
information required by the underwriting team in September 2012. But I havent seen any 
further evidence  where  this was provided to Bupa  for consideration. And so the underwriting 
team didnt have  the information  it needed to consider removing  the exclusion applied  for Mr 
C. 
Inaccurate information shared with new insurers
Mr and Mrs C say BUPA has shared inaccurate information with other  insurers  but Bupa  
says it hasnt shared  any information with any other insurers. Bupa has confirmed it will 
consider any evidence Mr and Mrs C provide to it to look into this further. Im satisfied this is 
reasonable.  
Incorrect claim registered for their daughter
Bupa registered an incorrect  claim for Mr and Mrs Cs daughter  as a result of a mix up with 
membership numbers. However, as soon  as Mrs C brought this to Bupas attention, it 
rectified the file and removed any claim from its records. Mr and Mrs C are concerned that 
this may affect their daughters future  if this incorrect  information is recorded somewhere.  
I havent seen  any evidence that this information  has been wrongly used or has affected Mr 
and Mrs Cs daughter negatively. But if she finds that this does cause any issues  in the 
future, she could raise  a complaint with Bupa at that time to be able to ascertain and quantify 
any losses. I hope this wont be necessary  but its an option that is available in the future.  
Ref: DRN69986554Letter regarding outstanding invoice from 2012
Bupa wrote to Mr and Mrs C in 2017  after receiving a letter about an invoice for treatment in 
2012 which wasnt covered. This was a duplicate  of an invoice submitted in 2012 and Bupa 
simply forwarded it on to Mr and Mrs C when it received it. However, it had already 
confirmed the claim  wasnt covered in 2012. I can see why this caused confusion to Mr and 
Mrs C but I cant  hold Bupa responsible  the letter was received  by Bupa in 2017  and sent 
on to Mr and Mrs C. Bupa has also offered to put a permanent hold on any correspondence 
if Mr and Mrs C dont want to receive  any such future communication which  I consider is 
reasonable.  
Data compromised 
Bupa wrote to Mr and Mrs C in July 2017 in relation to a data breach by an employee. Bupa 
told Mr and Mrs C that their personal details had been taken by an employee, who had been  
dismissed, but no financial or medical information was taken.  The matter was reported to the 
police and all affected customers  were contacted. 
Im satisfied that BUPA did the right thing by making  Mr and Mrs C aware  of the breach.  And 
I havent seen  any evidence that the data has been used to Mr and Mrs Cs detriment.  I do of 
course appreciate  that this must have come as a shock to Mr and Mrs C. As set out by my 
colleague, if Mr and Mrs C are still concerned about this, they can contact the Information  
Commissioners Office. 
Mr and Mrs C also found the timing of this incident suspicious as they had raised a complaint 
a month  before. But I havent seen anything  to suggest that it was related to the complaint 
they made as it affected a number of other  customers too. 
Failure to respond to complaint 
Mr and Mrs C complained  to BUPA in 2017  but didnt receive a response at the time.  
Complaints handling  isnt a regulated activity and so its not something  I can look into.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope Ive explained 
why I havent  upheld their complaint, based  on the evidence available  to me. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 December  2020.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6998655