K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that the advice she received from The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  
Society Limited to transfer benefits from her former  employers final salary scheme to a 
Section 32 buy- out plan was not suitable.
background
In 1992 an adviser  from Royal London advised  Mrs A to transfer  deferred  benefits from her 
former employers occupational  scheme to a Section  32 buy-out plan.
No suitability letter was issued at the time and there is only limited  fact find information 
available. Based on the information on file, it appears Mrs A was 28 years old, married and 
had been made redundant, after being  with her employer for nearly 10 years.  
Mrs As occupation was noted as housewife but it appears Mrs A wasnt working as she 
had recently had a baby.  The information  recorded also indicated  Mrs A had an outstanding 
mortgage of £34,500 and did not have any savings or investments. 
In 2018, Mrs A complained to Royal London  about the advice she had been given. Mrs A 
said her husband  had been a member of the same company pension scheme but hadnt 
transferred his benefits out of the scheme.
She said her husband had been  able to access  his pension when he reached  55 years  and 
was also entitled  to a pension commencement  lump sum (PCLS). However, Royal London  
had said the value of Mrs As Section  32 buy- out plan was too low to meet the guaranteed 
minimum pension (GMP) benefits  so she couldnt  take the benefits early.
Royal London didnt  uphold Mrs As complaint. It said it had written to Mrs A twice  in 1999 
offering to review her pension transfer,  but she had not responded. It said it was now too late 
for Mrs A to request a review of her pension.
Mrs A wasnt  satisfied  with Royal Londons response and brought  her complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator asked  Royal  London whether it agreed to this service considering Mrs As 
complaint. It said it consented.  Our adjudicator therefore considered the complaint.
 
Having looked  at the merits  he said he was of the view that it should be upheld. 
He said he thought the advice to transfer deferred benefits from her former employers 
pension scheme  was unsuitable  based  on Mrs As circumstances at the time. He noted  that 
Mrs A had no savings or investment experience and the deferred benefits were her only 
retirement savings.
He said he didnt think advising Mrs A to transfer and lose valuable  guaranteed benefits was 
in her best interests. He also said that, based  on the information available, he felt it was 
unlikely that the new pension would  offer a better  outcome than Mrs As occupational 
scheme.
Ref: DRN62849752Royal London didnt  agree. It said it wasnt willing to review  the advice it had given Mrs A to 
transfer her deferred  benefits. It said it had offered her the opportunity for a review  in 1999 
as part of the industry wide pension review. 
It said:
I confirm that we do still not accept your view as the issue of the review should certainly be 
considered as the customer has stated she did not live at that address at the time but again 
we have demonstrated she did not provide us with another address which she is obliged  to 
do at any point. Therefore  we continue to argue that she missed the opportunity  of such  a 
review and we should  not be reviewing this at this point so long after the regulators period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think Mrs As complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
consent to consider
In its final response letter  to Mrs A, Royal London said that it had offered to review Mrs As 
pension transfer  as part of an industry  wide review in 1999. It said Mrs A had not responded 
to either  of the letters it sent offering to review  her pension. And it said it was now too late for 
her pension transfer to be reviewed. 
It explained:
We completed our pension review process several  years ago. Unfortunately,  we do not 
accept any new requests for a review due to the length of time since the sign-up date I have 
mentioned. This decision is in line with the guidance  which  we have  been  given by our 
regulators for conducting the pension review.  In these circumstances, there is no further 
action we will be taking and I am sorry for any disappointment caused.
On 16 August 2018 our adjudicator emailed Royal London. He explained  that:
Since 9 July 2015 businesses are required,  in their final response letters, to confirm their 
consent or otherwise to our consideration of a complaint if it is referred outside of the time 
limits. DISP  1 Annex 3 provides example wording.
In the final response  letter  for Mrs As complaint you have confirmed no consent  if the case 
was referred over six months after the final response letter. However,  there was no 
confirmation regarding  the six and three year rule. DISP 2.8.2 (2)(a)(b).
Part of this complaint is about the advice given in March 1992, which is clearly  over six years  
ago therefore,  its possible the complaint might have  been referred late if there  is reason to 
believe the complaint should have been  brought within three years of (the consumer) being 
aware they had cause  for complaint
Please can you confirm, in writing,  your consent or otherwise for us to consider the 
complaint if it was late. If you do not consent, please  provide  any evidence and reasoning 
relating to time limits and why you consider  it to be out of time.
Please provide your reply  direct to me using the contact details below by 30 August 2018.
Ref: DRN62849753A second adjudicator chased  on Royal London on 3 September  2018  as it had not 
responded to his colleagues email asking for it confirm whether it consented to this service 
considering Mrs As complaint.
Royal London responded on 10 September 2018 by email it said:
I have to apologise for the delay in response.
I can confirm that Royal London consent to your  consideration  of this case .
(bold is my emphasis)
Despite having  given its consent  for this service  to consider Mrs As complaint  Royal  London 
says that Mrs A has brought her complaint  too late for this service to consider it.
As Royal London provided  its consent for us to consider this complaint, in writing, on 3 
September 2018 I am satisfied that this service  is permitted to consider  the merits of this 
complaint.
In any case, even if consent to consider this complaint had not been  given,  based  on the 
evidence available  I would have been of the opinion that this is a complaint we can consider. 
In particular I note that this service has seen evidence to show  that the address Royal  
London sent the pension  review letters to in 1999  was out of date. The claim in its final 
response letter that it sent the pension review  letters  to Mrs As current address is not 
correct. 
In an email to this service  dated 2 November 2018 Royal London  said:
I can find no evidence that the client ever informed  us of her change  of address and as a 
result I dont  believe we can be held at fault over the fact Mrs A didnt receive  her pension 
review letter.
But the file Royal London provided to this service clearly shows  that Mrs A notified Royal  
London of her new address on 22 February 2001. 
It is disappointing that Royal London  has claimed  that Mrs A did not provide us with 
another address which she is obliged to do at any point..  Its own records, provided to this 
service, show  that Mrs A did notify  it of her new address on 22 February 2001.
Royal London has since said that it did not take any steps to find out when Mrs A had moved 
to this address,  or whether she had received the letters it had sent in 1999 offering to review 
her pension transfer, when she notified it of her change of address.
Based on the information I have seen I think it is unlikely that Mrs A received the pension  
review letters sent in 1999 as they were  sent to an old address. I also note that Royal 
London did not make  any checks to ensure Mrs A had received its letters  when she 
contacted it in early  2001 to notify  it of her change of address. 
As this is the case I think Mrs A was never made  aware that she was entitled to a pension  
review. And I dont think Mrs A would have had any concerns  in relation to the advice she 
had received until she approached retirement. I think  it is unlikely that this Service  would 
have found that Mrs A had brought her complaint too late as she brought  it as soon as she 
became aware  that she might have cause for complaint.
Ref: DRN62849754merits
On 1 November  2018 our adjudicator emailed  Royal London. He said:
I note in the final response  letter  issued  for this complaint. Royal  London did not comment 
on the transfer given that it treated Mrs A as a non- responder in respect  of the pensions  
review.
Having confirmed that Mrs A never received any correspondence in relation to the pension 
review, given that the correspondence was sent to the wrong address, I would like to invite  
Royal London to now present any comments it may have in relation to the transfer?
Royal London did not provide any comments on the merits of Mrs As complaint to our 
adjudicator. 
In its response to our adjudicators view upholding Mrs As complaint Royal  London also 
failed to address  the merits of Mrs As complaint.
As it has chosen not to provide any comments on the merits I see no reason to depart from 
the view reached by our adjudicator.
Based on the information I have seen I think the advice to transfer deferred benefits from her 
occupational pension scheme  was not suitable  given  Mrs As personal  and financial  
circumstances. 
Mrs As attitude to investment risk was not recorded  on the fact find completed in early  1992, 
so it is not possible  to say with any certainty  how much risk Mrs A wanted to take with her 
deferred benefits. But even if Mrs A has been  prepared to take some risk, I think the adviser 
should have taken account  of Mrs As very limited capacity to take risk. It appears she had 
no savings at the time the advice was given, was not working  and the deferred pension  
benefits were her only pension savings.
I dont think the adviser took account of the impact on Mrs As income  in retirement  if the risk 
she was taking with this pension pot left her worse  off. Based on the fact find information  I 
have seen, I dont  think Mrs A was in a position  to take a higher level of investment risk in 
the hope of beating the benefits she would  have been entitled  to from her former employers 
scheme.
As our adjudicator set out, Royal Londons  illustration issued in 1992, used a higher 
assumed rate of return of 13% per year, and a lower rate was 8.5% per year.
The regulators proposed  rates for the Financial Viability Test (FVT), based on the date of 
advice, with a term of 31 years until retirement, was a rate of 11.5% per year in order  for the 
transfer to be viable. This means that the regulator was of the view that Mrs As pension  pot 
would need to grow  by at least 11.5% year on year for the transfer to be viable.
I think a critical  yield of over 11% meant that transferring Mrs As deferred benefits  to a 
personal arrangement  was a higher risk strategy. And I think  this was too high risk for Mrs A 
given her personal and financial  circumstances at the time.
I am also not satisfied  that Mrs A understood the risk she was taking with her pension pot. 
Nor do I think she understood  that her income  in retirement  and whether she would be 
Ref: DRN62849755able to take the benefits early  was dependent on the investment performance of the funds 
her pension benefits were  invested  in. As this is the case  I think  Mrs As complaint should be 
upheld.
what the business must  do to put things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs A, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society  Limited  must  undertake  a redress  calculation  in 
line with the regulators  pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct  
Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this final decision,  and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs As acceptance of the decision. 
Royal London may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain 
Mrs As contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs As 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.  
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs As pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this. 
 The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs A 
within 90 days of the date Royal London receives  notification of her acceptance  of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Royal London to pay Mrs A this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award: I require Royal London to pay Mrs A compensation as 
set out above,  up to a maximum of £150,000. 
Ref: DRN62849756recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I also recommend  that Royal London pays  Mrs A the balance. I further 
recommend interest  to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any 
time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Royal London to pay Mrs A from the date it receives  
notification of her acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mrs A accepts  my determination,  the money  award is binding  on Royal London. My 
recommendation is not binding on Royal London. Further,  its unlikely  that Mrs A can accept 
my determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the compensation owing to her 
after the money award has been  paid. Mrs A may want to consider getting  independent  legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept  this decision.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve  this matter I order  The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society  Limited  to calculate and pay any redress due as set out 
above.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6284975