K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that she was misled by Premier  Training International Limited (PTI) as to 
the equipment  necessary to complete her training  course.
background
In May 2018  Miss K entered  into a fixed loan arrangement for £849  to fund a training course. 
She was told that the course involved a video assessment and that she could use the 
facilities at her workplace.  This didnt have all the necessary equipment and so she was 
unable to complete  the course.  PTI offered to have the assessment carried out at other 
premises, but these  were not convenient for Miss K and she asked  for a refund.
She brought  her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our adjudicators 
who recommended  it be upheld. She said the contract was covered by the Consumer Rights  
Act 2015.
She noted that in the business final response  issued on 27 November  2018  it confirmed that 
the sales call was listened to and Miss K was told she could use her work  facilities for the 
practical element  of her course. She also looked  at the downloadable  syllabus provided  on 
the business website  and there  is no information provided about  the need  to have access to 
specific items of equipment.
Based on this, she concluded  that the course  was misrepresented  to Miss K. She 
recommended that PTI should:
Cancel the loan agreement in a way that doesnt negatively affect Miss Ks credit  file. 
Remove any negative  information thats  already been recorded.
Refund her £100 deposit, with interest at 8% simple per year,  from May 2018  to the 
date of settlement.
Refund all of the payments Miss K had made under the loan agreement, with interest 
at 8% simple per year,  from the date of each payment to the date this is settled.
PTI queried the interest element  of the proposal and the adjudicator  explained that this was 
to recognise that Miss K had the loss of use of her money. It didnt  formally  accept  the 
recommendation, but I gather Miss K has recently received payment from the business.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find myself in agreement with the adjudicators recommendation. I am satisfied from the 
information that the course was mis-sold to Miss K and as a result she is entitled to a refund 
of her money. I recognise that PFI sought  to find a solution for Miss K, but this wasnt  
suitable. 
It seems  PFI has tacitly  accepted the adjudicators recommendation, but as it hasnt done so 
formally I am issuing  this decision to formalise matters. 
Ref: DRN66298422my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Premier Training International 
Limited to:
Cancel the loan agreement in a way that doesnt negatively affect Miss Ks credit  file. 
Remove any negative  information thats  already been recorded.
Refund her £100 deposit, with interest at 8% simple per year,  from May 2018  to the 
date of settlement  if not already done  so.
Refund all of the payments Miss K had made under the loan agreement, with interest 
at 8% simple per year,  from the date of each payment to the date this is settled if not 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6629842