K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about short-term  loans granted  to him by CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading 
as QuickQuid. Mr T says he couldnt  afford these loans and that QuickQuid  didnt take 
appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed five short-term loans for Mr T between April 2015 and September  2017. 
Each loan was repayable over between one and three months.   Loans  3 and 4 were  topped  
up (loan 4 on two occasions). This is where  Mr T took out further borrowing under the same 
agreement, before paying back the initial  amount borrowed. Ive set out a summary of the 
lending below.
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 23/04/2015 100 1 129
2 09/08/2015 100 3 124
3 19/09/2015 100 1 133
3a 24/09/2015 100 3 250
4 24/12/2015 100 3 125
4a 27/12/2015 50 3 187
4b 07/01/2016 100 3 312
5 19/09/2017 1,500 3 1,848
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ts complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out on loans  1, 2 and 3 
were proportionate, but that the checks carried out on loans 3a  5 werent.
He thought that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks on loans 3a  5, it wouldve 
likely concluded that loans 3a and 4b wouldve  been unaffordable for Mr T, and would not 
have agreed to them.
QuickQuid disagreed with the findings. And Mr T raised no new arguments in response  to 
the adjudicators  assessment. So as no agreements been  reached at this stage, the case  
has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision.
As it seems loans 1  3, loans 4  4a, and loan 5 are no longer in dispute,  my decision will 
focus on QuickQuids  decision to approve the remaining loans,  loan 3a and loan 4b.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QuickQuid said that prior to lending to Mr T, it reviewed his creditworthiness. It said that its 
affordability measures  and credit checks consisted of a hard credit pull which also included  
name, address,  employment and bank verifications. It said these results  indicated that there  
were no factors that would prohibit it from lending to Mr T, and it saw no other markers that 
would cause alarm.  So as a result it agreed lend to him on each occasion.
Ref: DRN63785372The adjudicators opinion set out in detail, why he thought  Mr Ts case should  be upheld  in 
part, which Ive summarised above.
QuickQuid, in response to the adjudicators opinion, said that starting 1 March 2015,  it had 
implemented an affordability review that was consistent with the FCA (Financial Conduct 
Authority) Handbook and was in place at the time it received  authorisation by the FCA. And 
that its assessment  was conducted properly and individually for each of these  applications 
after this date.
QuickQuid has raised  this generic argument across  many cases  brought  to our service. And 
this service has addressed this  specific point by QuickQuid  in several previous decisions, so 
Im not going  to expand on it any further  here. As by now, QuickQuid should be aware  that 
my role is to look not only into the rules and regulations  set by the regulator at the time of 
borrowing, but also the law, good  industry  practice and all the available evidence  and 
arguments, to help decide whether I think what the business has done  is right or not.  So my 
decision will focus on the specifics  of Mr Ts complaint and what both parties  have said 
about this.
Having looked  at the specific in this case I dont think  QuickQuid was right to provide Mr T 
with loans 3a and 4b.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ts income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ts complaint.  These questions are:
1.Did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would 
those checks have  shown that Mr T would  have been able to do so?
Ref: DRN637853732.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ts indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
1. Did QuickQuid, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  
itself that Mr T would be able to repay  in a sustainable way?  If not, would those  checks  have 
shown that Mr T would have been able to do so?
When Mr T took out loan 3a, hed been borrowing  from QuickQuid for around  five months. 
Loan 3 was taken out on 19 September 2015,  and it was just five days  later that Mr T 
returned to top up this loan by a further  £100 (3a) on 24 September 2015. Given the overall 
length of the relationship, and how soon Mr T had needed to return to borrow further funds 
after the initial advance  was granted, I think QuickQuid shouldve  become concerned about 
Mr Ts pattern of borrowing at this stage and extended its checks further.  Looking  specifically 
into what other short-term lending commitments Mr T may have had at this time. 
However, even without going into details  about  Mr Ts other short  term credit commitments, I 
think QuickQuid already had enough information  available at this time, to have realised this 
loan would not have been sustainably affordable for him. 
QuickQuid had recorded an income  of £2,100  a month for Mr T when he applied  for loan 3a. 
It also took details  of his monthly outgoings  which it seems to have  recorded  as £1,800. So 
from its own checks, it wouldve seen  that Mr T had a disposable  monthly income of around 
£300.
The regulations that were  in the place  at the time, set out, that in making  a creditworthiness 
assessment, a firm should take into account more  than just assessing  a customer's ability  to 
repay the credit. And that such an assessment should include a business taking reasonable 
steps to assess a customer's  ability to meet repayments under a regulated  credit  agreement 
in a sustainable manner, without the customer incurring financial  difficulties  or experiencing 
significant adverse  consequences.
The highest  monthly repayment due on loan 3a was for £250. So while  I think  its possible 
Mr T may have had a small  sum of money left over after repaying the credit   Im not 
persuaded that the amount identified was sufficient  for him to be able to repay  loan 3a in a 
sustainable manner.  And subsequently,  as a responsible lender, I dont think QuickQuid 
shouldve agreed  to this loan. 
Loan 4b was taken out in January  2016,  and this was the second top-up Mr T had taken out 
on loan 4 within around two weeks of the initial advance. The figures recorded by QuickQuid  
in respect of Mr Ts income and expenditure, were the same as those recorded at the time 
loan 3a was taken.  So again, from QuickQuids own checks it wouldve seen he had around 
£300 a month in disposable income when he applied for loan 4b.
Looking at the repayment schedule on this loan, Mr Ts highest  monthly  repayment  due was 
£312. So from its own checks, QuickQuid wouldve seen that with a disposable monthly 
income of around  £300, the repayments  on this loan were  not sustainable for Mr T, and as a 
responsible lender I dont think it shouldve agreed  to this loan knowing this.  
Ref: DRN637853742. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ts indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful?
Ive not gone onto assess the overall pattern  of lending at this stage, because I dont need 
to, as I already  think the loans that remain in dispute should not have been agreed.
3. Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in some 
other way.  
In summary,  I dont think QuickQuid shouldve  agreed to loans 3a and 4b, and I think  Mr Ts 
lost out as a result. 
what QuickQuid  needs to do to put things right 
QuickQuid has already agreed  to remove any interest and charges applied to loan 5 to 
reduce the balance to the original capital amount borrowed as a gesture of good  will. Then  
further reduce  the amount  owed, by refunding all interest and charges  paid towards loan 5, 
and applying  that refund against  the capital balance still owing. So it should still do this.
I also think QuickQuid was wrong to have  approved  loans 3a and 4b. So it needs  to refund 
all the interest and charges Mr T paid towards  these.
Specifically, it should:
-refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loans  3a and 4b
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
-remove any negative information  about loans 3a and 4b from Mr Ts credit  file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
It seems  that Mr T still has an outstanding balance owing on loan 5. So if QuickQuid still 
owns this debt, it may use the amount  it owes  Mr T from the redress due on loans 3a and 4b 
to further reduce the balance on loan 5 if one remains.  If QuickQuid no longer own this debt 
then it needs to buy it back.  Otherwise  it isnt entitled to make  any deductions for it. 
If the amount due to be refunded for loans  3a and 4b is more  than is needed to clear the 
outstanding balance owed on loan 5, then any amount leftover  should  be returned to Mr T.
Ref: DRN63785375my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6378537