K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that MYJAR Limited was irresponsible to lend him money. Mr F wants  
MYJAR to refund the interest that he paid.
background
Mr F out four instalment  loans with MYJAR  between July and September  2018.  The loan 
amounts varied  from £200 to £550  and were repayable by monthly instalments. A summary 
of Mr Fs lending  is set out below:
Loan Date of loan Date repaid Instalments Amount Maximum monthly 
Repayment
1 18/07/2018 21/08/2018 3 £200 £99
2 21/08/2018 14/09/2018 6 £350 £102
3 14/09/2018 15/09/2018 6 £350 £106
4 16/09/2018 09/10/2018 6 £550 £164
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld in part. She 
recommended that MYJAR refund the interest and charges that Mr F had paid on loan four. 
The adjudicator also recommended  that MYJAR remove any negative  information about loan 
four from Mr Fs credit file. 
MYJAR disagrees with the adjudicators recommendation. It considers the checks  it carried  
out were proportionate.  And MYJAR doesnt  think that weve  considered all of the 
information that it provided about  the checks it carried out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN63126982the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Source Book defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, as well as without  having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
loans one to three
Mr F didnt  disagree with the adjudicators  opinion  about loans one to three. Because  of this, 
I dont think there is any ongoing  dispute  about these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But as the loans were part of the borrowing relationship  that Mr F had 
with MYJAR, I will take them in to account  when considering his other loan.
loan four 
By loan four, MYJAR could see a history of Mr F taking  out a new loan immediately upon 
repaying the previous loan. And the amount that Mr F asked  to borrow had increased  from 
£200 for loan one to £550.
I consider that this pattern  of repeated borrowing without any break  indicated  that despite  the 
checks that MYJAR carried before agreeing to lend; in reality  Mr F was struggling  to manage 
his money. I think that MYJAR should have  seen that it was likely that Mr F was using short 
term loans for everyday  living  costs rather than as intended for one-off unexpected 
expenses.
I dont consider that it was sustainable for Mr F to keep borrowing from MYJAR. And based 
on the pattern  of borrowing,  I consider  MYJAR shouldve realised this and not agreed to lend 
loan four.
Overall, I find it fair to uphold  Mr Fs complaint  about  loan four.
Ref: DRN63126983putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr F paid on loan four;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  about loan four from Mr Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and direct MYJAR Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6312698