K821x#15Complaint
Miss E complains  that Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) charged her for vehicle 
collection and auction fees when she voluntarily  surrendered the car she had acquired under 
a hire purchase agreement (HPA). She says these costs werent  explained to her when 
discussing her options. She also says that the proceeds from the cars sale were  higher than 
those applied to her account.
Background
Miss E entered into HPA with Startline in July 2017  to acquire a used vehicle. In September 
2018, the car was flooded while in her works car park. Miss E contacted her insurance 
company and says they deemed  the car a write  off but she wasnt convinced by this. She 
towed the car to a local garage  and was told it would need a new engine  control  unit (ECU).
Miss E contacted Startline about what had happened and to say she would continue  making 
payments but says she was told because the insurance company had said the car was a 
write off they would need to transfer  her account to debt recovery. Miss E explained that she 
didnt want to make an insurance claim due to the impact on her future premiums and after 
further discussions she agreed to voluntarily surrender (VS) the car. She says she was told 
the car would be sold at auction and the proceeds  offset against her account.
The car was collected in November 2018. Miss E says she queried her account  as it had 
been passed to debt collection. At this point she was told about the additional charges for 
the auction. Following  the sale of the car she was contacted by a third party who said they 
acquired the car for £2,900 when she only received proceeds of £950.
Startline says that Miss E contacted it on 2 October 2018, to say the car had been damaged 
due to a flood. It says it advised Miss E to contact her insurance company but she said she 
didnt want to make an insurance claim. It says that as the asset had been deemed a total 
loss by the insurance company it would  look for the outstanding balance  on her agreement 
to be cleared and if this wasnt  possible  then the agreement would be transferred to debt 
recovery and a default registered  on Miss Es credit  file. Miss E wasnt happy with this and a 
further call was arranged  on which the insurance  process was explained again but Miss E 
said she didnt want to make a claim.
On the call on 20 November 2018,  Startline says the option  of VS was discussed and Miss E 
was told the car would be collected and sold at auction in order to reduce the outstanding 
balance in her agreement.  Startline  says at this point  it was not explained to Miss E that the 
costs of collection and auction costs would  be added to her balance.
On 7 December  2018, Startline says its account  officer spoke to Miss E and explained the 
potential costs but not the exact  amounts.  It says the offer was made  for Miss E to be 
transferred for the costs  to be confirmed but she declined this. It says the car was sold for 
£950 and the collection costs of £342 and auction cots of £78 meant  her balance was 
reduced by £530.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that the recovery  costs  and auction  fees 
werent explained to Miss E when the VS process  was explained. Because  of this he 
recommended that Miss E shouldnt be liable  for these. He noted Miss Es comments about  
how much  the car was sold for at auction  but based  on the sales invoice he accepted  that 
Miss E had received the correct proceeds  from the sale.  He did think that Miss E should be 
Ref: DRN61955212paid compensation for the distress  and inconvenience she had been caused by Startline and 
recommended she be paid £100.
Startline didnt agree with our investigators view.  It said Miss E had initially  wanted to 
continue with her monthly payments and was told that she was required to maintain service 
and the MOT for the agreement to remain live. It said she only mentioned repairs once and 
said she couldnt afford these. It said if the insurance company says a car is a write off it 
accepts this.
Startline said it offered VS to Miss E and that she is in the situation  she is now in due to not 
choosing to make an insurance claim. It said it would be unfair to require Startline to cover 
the costs of the auction fees and collection costs as well as paying  compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  when it hadnt  caused  the issue.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Miss E entered into a HPA with Startline and agreed to be bound by its terms and 
conditions.
Miss E contacted Startline after her car was flooded and she had been told by her 
insurance company  that it was a write off. She made  it clear she didnt  want to make  
an insurance claim. I find it reasonable that Miss E was told about the option of VS. 
Startline explained  what would happen to the car if she agreed to VS. She was told 
the car would go to auction and if sold the sales proceeds would be set against the 
outstanding balance. She wasnt  told on this call about the costs  associated with the 
car collection and auction.
The collection costs and auction fees were  mentioned on a subsequent call (after the 
VS had been acted on) and Miss E was given the opportunity to have  these 
confirmed, which she declined. 
I didnt find that had Miss E had the information about the collection costs and 
auctions fees being added to her account  it would have  changed her decision 
regarding VS. 
The collection costs and auction fees were  incurred as part of the VS process and 
because I thought Miss E would have taken  this action had the information been 
provided I didnt find that Startline was required to cover these costs.
Startline didnt provide the service it should have as it didnt give Miss E all the 
information about the costs associated with VS when this was first discussed. 
Because of this I thought it should pay her £100 compensation.
I noted the information provided  in regard to the cars sale proceeds and didnt 
uphold tis part of Miss Es complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, Startline provided  further information in regard to the VS 
process. 
Ref: DRN61955213My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  No new evidence was provided  in 
response to my provisional  decision that had the effect of changing my view.
While I understand this will be a disappointment  to Miss E and I know the damage to her car 
wasnt her fault, in this case I do not find I can say that Startline is required to cover  the costs 
of the auction  fees and collection costs. As I have set out above I do think that compensation 
of £100 for the service she received should be paid.
Given the circumstances Miss E has experienced and the concerns she has raised Startline 
should treat her positively and sympathetically in regard to her outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that Startline Motor Finance Limited should pay Miss E £100 
compensation for the distress  caused  by not telling her the car collection and auction costs 
would be added to her balance when VS was initially discussed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6195521