K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy with a credit card.
background
Mrs F took out a credit card with MBNA in 2002. At the same time,  she bought a PPI policy 
which would have helped  cover her repayments  on the card if she couldnt work due to an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. It also would have paid the outstanding balance on her 
card in the event  of her death.  
Mrs F says she was pressured into buying  the PPI and that she didnt really need it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Mrs F, through her representative, 
disagreed. So the case has been passed  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding Mrs Fs case.
Mrs F says that she applied for the credit  card and PPI in a shopping centre.  MBNA  says the 
application was made by post. MBNA has supplied a copy of the application form, and it 
does, indeed, look like a postal application. However, I consider its possible that this 
application form could  have been completed at a marketing stand in a shopping centre and 
posted there. So I have treated this sale as if it happened in the circumstances Mrs F 
described. It does not make a difference to the overall outcome of Mrs Fs complaint. 
Mrs F says that she was told in no uncertain terms that the PPI was compulsory. MBNA 
says that the PPI wasnt compulsory. 
I cant know what was said to Mrs F at the time of sale. But Ive looked  at the application  
form she completed which has a separate section for PPI. It makes it very clear  that the PPI 
is optional, providing  yes and no boxes for Mrs F to select or reject the PPI. There  is a 
cross in the box to select the PPI and Mrs F has signed the completed form. It is not a 
complicated or particularly  detailed form.
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mrs F bought the PPI knowing she had a choice 
about it. And I cant fairly say that Mrs F was placed under undue pressure to take it. 
As I havent  upheld Mrs Fs complaint for the reason shes  provided, Ive looked  at the rest of 
the sale to see if theres any other reason to uphold a complaint of mis-sale.
MBNA didnt  provide  Mrs F with a personal  recommendation  to buy the PPI, so it didnt have 
to take steps to make sure it was right for her. But it did need  to make sure it gave  Mrs F 
enough information to make her own informed decision  about it. 
Ref: DRN67195542I think its likely MBNA  didnt provide  Mrs F with all the information she needed. For example, 
I dont think it gave  her enough  information  about the important limitations  and exclusions on 
the policy, or the cost and benefit.
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Mrs Fs complaint. I need  to consider 
whether, if Mrs F had all the information  she needed, shed have acted  differently  and not 
bought the policy. 
Looking at Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale I dont think  Mrs F would have acted 
differently. I say this because:
Mrs F was eligible  for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which  might  have 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs F didnt have  any contractual sick pay from her employer. She would only have 
received statutory sick pay, which  would  have been  considerably less than her usual  
pay. The policy would have paid out in addition to this and for up to a year at a time;
While  Mrs F says her husband would have helped out if she wasnt working, the 
policy would have  meant she didnt have to rely on anyone elses  help. Other 
peoples help cannot be relied on and I think the familys finances  would have  been  
considerably reduced overall if Mrs F wasnt working; Mrs F didnt have  any other 
way of meeting  her repayments if she wasnt working;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  policies offering similar cover  at 
around the same time. The policy was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time 
without financial penalty.
In fact, the policy later proved to be helpful  for Mrs F as she made a successful claim which  
paid several hundred pounds. 
On balance, on the information  available  to me, I dont think MBNA mis-sold this policy.  This 
means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But MBNA will pay back some of the cost to Mrs F because  it got a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should  have  told Mrs F about  
that. Because MBNA  didnt  tell Mrs F, that was unfair. 
To put this right, MBNA has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is a fair offer in this case. 
what the business needs  to do
MBNA has to pay back to Mrs F and commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. MBNA should also pay back to Mrs F any extra  interest she paid 
because of that. 
MBNA should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mrs F the difference  between 
what Mrs F owes and what she would have  owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
Ref: DRN67195543hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. MBNA should also pay Mrs F 8%* simple 
interest on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs F can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Ltd does  not have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs F.
But MBNA Ltd does  have  to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium   if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2021.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6719554