K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs H say National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think NatWest  made it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Mr and Mrs H have said they presumed they wouldnt get the mortgage if they 
didnt take the PPI. As this policy was taken out during a meeting in branch, there  is no 
call recording  or record of the conversation that took place. However, I have noted that 
on the PPI application  form there are options  to decline the cover  which  would 
suggest they did have a choice.  If Mr and Mrs H were under the impression this cover  
wasnt optional, I think they would have questioned this with NatWest when they saw 
the options on the form to decline the cover.
From  what I have  read and been told I think NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs H so it didnt  have to check if it was right for them. But it did have to make  sure 
Mr and Mrs H got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said but these points dont  change  my 
decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN64551572For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6455157