K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2007. Miss S says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the MPPI. 
The type of MPPI policy Miss S was sold was called Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP). 
TMPP can be split into sections, namely  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which  is a form of 
MPPI), Life Cover  and Critical  Illness Cover (CIC).
Miss S only took the MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss S says that she didnt want or need  the MPPI   she says it was implied that without 
taking the MPPI, she wouldnt  get her mortgage,  so she felt pressured in to taking it out. I 
cant know what was said to Miss S at the time  and shes not said much about  this either. 
So I have  to base  my decision on the information I do have.
BoS doesnt have copies  of Miss Ss application, but this isnt surprising for a sale that took 
place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But BoS has 
provided information about how it sold MPPI at the time, and the kind of paperwork that 
wouldve been completed. This shows that MPPI  was presented  as an optional  product  
and that consent wouldve been gained for it to be taken  out. And I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that BoS did anything other  than follow  its usual  process  when it sold the MPPI  to 
Miss S  I also dont  have  enough  to say that Miss S was pressured  in to taking it out.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  BoS made it clear that Miss S didnt have 
to take out the MPPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Miss S so it had to check that the MPPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss S about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN62254932Ive thought about everything Miss S has said - including what shes said about  having 
savings she couldve used to make her mortgage  repayments. But the MPPI couldve 
prevented Miss S from using her savings   and protected them for other expenses.  So this 
point doesnt change my decision.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Miss S some of the commission  she paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Miss Ss mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So BoS doesnt need to refund any of the commission 
Miss S paid for the MPPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6225493