K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  Wirecard Card  Solutions Limited  (Wirecard) cancelled his card and stopped  
him from accessing his account.
background
Mr M has a card branded  with the name of an online pre-paid card provider. The card is 
issued by Wirecard so its responsible for this complaint and, because of this, Ill refer to it 
throughout this decision.
Wirecard received notification that there had been a data breach  after someone hacked  into 
the computer  systems  of a large hotel chain. During  this event, a large number of credit  card 
details  potentially  including Mr Ms  were compromised. 
As a security  precaution, Wirecard cancelled Mr Ms card and arranged for a new one to be 
issued. It let him know what had happened  and how it was dealing  with it.
Mr M found he was unable to access the funds in his account and wasnt happy about this. 
He complained to Wirecard. It said it had acted in line with the terms of the account and it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Unhappy with Wirecards response, Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said 
she thought Wirecard had acted reasonably when it cancelled Mr Ms card following the 
concerns about  security.  She thought Wirecard  could have sorted things out more  quickly  
though so she said it should  pay Mr M £25 for the trouble and upset it caused him.
Mr M didnt  think  this was enough  and he asked  an ombudsman  to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator.  Ill explain why.
My role at this service  is to resolve  complaints quickly and with minimal formality.  In doing 
this, Ill focus on what  I consider to be the crux of the complaint. That means  I wont  always  
comment on all thats been said by the parties  but I have read and considered  everything.
Wirecard received notification that there had been a data breach  involving a large chain of 
hotels and associated  property. Mr M said he hadnt stayed at the hotel chain affected but 
Wirecard believed he had stayed at one of the associated  properties and so there was a 
chance his card details  had been compromised. I think  it was reasonable for Wirecard to act 
on this possibility in order to protect  Mr Ms account.
Ive read the terms and conditions of the account  and these explain:
We may also close your [pre-paid card provider] Account and cancel your [pre-paid 
card provider] Card immediately if we suspect  fraud  or misuse of your [pre-paid card 
provider] Account or [pre-paid card provider] Card or have any other  security  
concerns, or need to do so to comply with the law
Ref: DRN61468042Wirecard cancelled his card and emailed Mr M to let him know  the same day. I accept this 
caused Mr M some inconvenience  as he wasnt  able to access his money. But Im satisfied, 
in undertaking  this action, Wirecard  was seeking  to prevent potential fraudulent activity on 
Mr Ms account and it was acting in line with the term detailed above.  
The day after the original  card was cancelled, Wirecard  let Mr M know  it could activate the 
new replacement card and this would allow him access  to transfer funds to another  account.  
Mr M responded to this message  later that night,  after Wirecard had closed. 
Wirecard would have received the message the next day and could have acted  on it 
immediately but there  was a delay and it didnt activate the card until the day after. I 
understand this would have caused  Mr M some  inconvenience. I think the £25 suggested  by 
our investigator is a fair and reasonable way of Wirecard acknowledging the trouble and 
upset Mr M was caused by the delay it caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I partially uphold this complaint and instruct Wirecard 
Card Solutions Limited to pay Mr M £25 if it hasnt done this already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6146804