K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  a hire purchase agreement  taken  out with Loans 2 Go Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs C entered  into a loan agreement with Loans 2 Go in September 2017. They sold 
a vehicle they already owned  to the finance  provider for cash  and signed a credit agreement  
for the loan.
The loan agreement  was for £2,000 plus interest  of £7920.16 payable at £275.58  for 35 
months and a final repayment  of £275.56. In order  to make the payments Mr C signed a 
credit/debit card payment  form. 
Mr and Mrs C say they thought this was a logbook loan but later discovered  it was a hire 
purchase agreement.  They also say they told the finance provider  they wanted to repay the 
loan within  a few months.  They say the finance provider said the interest on the loan would 
be accrued on a daily basis. They later found  out it was front loaded  interest.
Mr and Mrs C fell into arrears with the loan agreement, after the first few repayments  had 
been made, and Loans 2 Go attempted to collect payment from their account. When  it 
successfully collected  an instalment, Mr and Mrs C say they did this without authorisation. 
They thought Loans 2 Go had misrepresented the agreement and as they didnt sign it on 
Loans 2 Go premises argue its invalid. When Loans  2 Go repossessed the vehicle, Mr and 
Mrs C claim they didnt  give consent, and Loans 2 Go did so without a court order.
Loans 2 Go say they followed the correct procedures  when the loan was offered to Mr and 
Mrs C. They  say it was clearly a Hire Purchase agreement,  and that Mr and Mrs Cs income 
and expenditure  were  fully assessed before the loan was offered. They go on to assert  all 
loan payments received were due and payable. And that when Mr and Mrs C failed to 
maintain the agreement, they contacted  them on numerous occasions in attempts to assist 
them to bring  the account up to date. They offered Mr and Mrs C early settlement  terms. But 
when they failed to agree to this, Loans 2 Go started  repossession proceedings in 
accordance with the terms  of the agreement. Although the vehicle has now been 
repossessed, they have  offered a reduced settlement figure in an attempt  to end the matter.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs C. She looked carefully at all the 
information and found Loans  2 Go had acted  in accordance the terms and conditions of the 
agreement. She also found they had followed  their own procedures, and those required of 
them in law, before  repossessing the vehicle. She felt in offering a reduced  settlement figure  
Loans 2 Go had acted  fairly and reasonably and so didnt  ask them to do anything  further.
Mr C disagreed. He maintains he didnt sign a 3-year  agreement,  it was only for 2 months.  
He feels there has been some fraud  somewhere along the line. The agent with whom he 
signed the agreement has now left the company. He says hes asked a solicitor to look at the 
matter for him but in the meantime he asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
by both parties afresh. Having done so Im in agreement with our investigators  view and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN68828292Im aware Mr and Mrs C have raised  a number of points and concerns that Loans  2 Go have 
treated them  unfairly. While I dont specifically comment on each one, I hope they wont  think  
me discourteous. I have  considered each  and every point carefully, but its not always  
necessary for me to comment  on each  point to reach my decision.
I have considered relevant law, regulators rules, guidance and industry standards, and best 
practice. My role is to look at the matter  as a whole and determine whether Loans 2 Go have 
been fair and reasonable in this matter and, if not, what  they should  do to put things right.
There are a number of key issues that have been raised by Mr and Mrs C and so for ease I 
have addressed them individually.
misrepresentation of the agreement
In order for me to find Loans  2 Go have misrepresented  the agreement  to Mr and Mrs C, I 
would be looking for evidence to suggest  a false statement of fact has been made, and this 
induced Mr and Mrs C into entering  the agreement.
Mr and Mrs C say they thought they were taking out a logbook loan in order to secure 
£2,000 by taking a finance agreement secured against a vehicle they already owned.  They  
intended the arrangement  to be for a few months  only. 
Mr C has said subsequently that he didnt want a logbook loan, but argues the status  of the 
agreement he signed didnt allow Loans 2 Go to repossess his vehicle without a court  order.
Ive looked carefully  at the agreement and related  documents  Mr and Mrs C signed.  The 
agreement is clearly  a Hire Purchase  (HP) agreement  for £2,000  payable  over 36 months.  
Mr and Mrs C took out a credit agreement  for £2,000 secured against their existing vehicle. 
So although  this is a HP agreement, in essence  they ended  up in the same  position as they 
would have had they had a logbook loan. There are technical differences  in the agreements,  
but the premise is the same.
Loans 2 Go can offer any type of loan agreement they want  to but its incumbent  upon them  
to ensure there is sufficient information  for Mr and Mrs C to make an informed decision and 
the loan is affordable.
The loan applications were signed on 5 September 2017. These detail the existing vehicle 
was to be used  for security and I have checked  the additional documents  such  as 
confirmation of insurance,  the Sale Agreement and the HP agreement.  They all detail the 
same Vehicle Registration Number (VPN). So Im satisfied that in signing two documents  
and providing  an insurance document, Mr and Mrs C  understood their vehicle would be 
used as security for the loan. Im further satisfied that they knew or ought reasonably to have 
known what type of agreement it was that they had entered into, that is a hire purchase 
agreement and not a log book loan.  As I said, this is stated  clearly on the document  itself.
As the loan fell into arrears, I have also examined  the Income and Expenditure Form both Mr 
and Mrs C completed and looked carefully  at the bank  statements they provided  as evidence 
they could afford the repayments  on the loan. Im also satisfied after taking account of 
household expenditure  and any other credit commitments, there was enough disposable 
income to repay the HP loan.
Ref: DRN68828293I understand Mr C has also questioned  the validity of an agreement signed  in his own home. 
Im not aware of any regulatory requirement  that says a loan agreement must  be signed on 
the finance providers premises, and so Im unable to agree with Mr C that in doing  so Loans 
2 Go have invalidated the agreement. Id also add that this is a legal point, and our service is 
an informal alternative to the courts.
was the interest  rate and early settlement terms applied to the loan clear
I understand Mr and Mrs C have raised  several  times with Loans 2 Go, and this service,  that 
they were unaware  of the amount of interest  applied to the loan and had they been  aware  
they would  not have  taken  it out. 
The Pre-Contract signed by both Mr and Mrs C clearly states the interest rate to be applied 
to the loan, the term of the loan being 36 monthly repayments, and also the fact that non-
payment could lead Loans 2 Go to take steps  to recover  the goods.
The separate HP agreement was clearly defined  as such  on the top of the first page.  The 
first section entitled Key Financial Information  also details the amount of the payments, the 
term of the loan and the interest  rate. The terms and conditions  of the agreement also went 
on to detail the penalties for non-payment and your  right to terminate the agreement,  by 
returning the car to Loans 2 Go and paying  half of the credit  due.
The Customer Statement, also signed by Mr and Mrs C, confirmed  the documents they had 
signed had been explained, they were aware of the APR, the payment details and their right 
to repay  early.
I accept the Customer  Statement  has Logbook  Loan within  it but there are two other  
documents that all detail  the repayments, the term of the loan and the APR applied. All of 
which Mr and Mrs C have signed and so agreed  to the terms and conditions  within. On 
balance, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C had sufficient information to make an informed decision 
and were aware of the terms and conditions they had agreed to.
With regard to the early  settlement of the loan, the agreement  clearly stated this can be 
requested at any time by Mr and Mrs C in writing, and sets out how any settlement figure will 
be reached. This is in accordance with the formula  set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
I looked carefully at the settlement figure  later requested by Mr and Mrs C and Im satisfied it 
meets the regulatory requirements.
Im not in disagreement  that the interest rate applied to this loan is high, but this isnt a 
matter Im able to comment on, except to say it was clearly detailed within the agreement 
and its broadly at the same rate this type of loan agreement attracts.
loan repayments
I can see from the loan agreement that Mr C also signed a credit/debit  payment form. The 
form gave permission for Loans 2 Go to debit  payments from Mr Cs debit card.  The account 
was only in Mr Cs name  and so Mrs C wasnt required to sign this form.
The form detailed the monthly payment and Mr C signed the declaration, which  read:
Ref: DRN68828294by providing your card details you authorise  Loans 2 Go to take the agreed payment at 
the stated regular intervals. If the payment declines,  you authorise Loans 2 Go to take 
smaller incremental  payments up to the value of the payment on and/or  after the agreed 
date. You can cancel this agreement  at any time by providing us with written instructions  to 
stop taking payments. Please only proceed  if you agree and understand.
Im satisfied Mr C was made aware of how the loan repayments should be made  and that he 
agreed to do so in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
did Loans 2 Go have the right to repossess the vehicle?
I have looked  carefully  at the customer notes provided by Loans 2 Go and I have listened to 
the telephone call recordings provided.
There is no dispute here that Mr Cs account  had fallen into arrears. I can see from the 
customer contact records that Loans 2 Go tried on many occasions to contact Mr C in an 
attempt to bring his account up to date or make payment arrangements. Mr C has said he 
was advised as he was disputing the validity of the agreement; he didnt need to make  the 
repayments on the loan agreement. Im afraid this isnt the case from a legal standpoint, and 
although Loans 2 Go put the account  on hold whilst they investigated his concerns, Mr C 
was still liable for the repayments under the terms of the agreement. I can see Loans 2 Go 
informed Mr C that if he failed to bring  his account  up to date they would take the necessary 
steps to recover the vehicle,  which  they were entitled to do.
Mr and Mrs C have argued  that because of where  they live the law says Loans 2 Go must 
obtain a court order to repossess the vehicle and as they didnt, they have done  so 
unlawfully.
The credit agreement says:
Repossession: Your  Rights. If you do not keep your side of the agreement  but you have 
paid at least one third of the Total Amount Payable  under this agreement, that is £3,306.72, 
the creditor may not take back the Goods against  your wishes  unless he obtains a court 
order (in Scotland he may need a court order at any time). If he does take back  the Goods 
without your consent or a court order, you have the right to get back  any money  that you 
have paid under this agreement
Having looked  at the Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations  2010   Schedule 2, Im 
satisfied the wording in the agreement meets the regulatory requirements.
I have considered Mr and Mrs Cs point regarding the court  order, but for several  reasons Im 
not persuaded by their argument.  Firstly,  Mr and Mrs C have paid less than a third of amount 
owed under the agreement. Im satisfied Loans  2 Go were fair and reasonable in attempting  
to contact Mr C to make payment arrangements and repossession  was the last resort  after 
numerous telephone calls, texts  and letters. The agreement  refers to a possible need to 
obtain a court order in Scotland. But then there is the issue of consent.  In both the CCA  
provisions, and the credit agreement itself, it says goods can be repossessed with consent.
Ref: DRN68828295I have listened  to a telephone recording provided  by Loans 2 Go, in which Mr C is arranging  
collection of the vehicle. He is heard to agree a time and date for the collection, he asks 
about the name of the agent who will collect it and if they will have authorisation from Loans 
2 Go and says this will be fine. I appreciate Mr C says he later withdrew his consent as the 
agent couldnt make the time and date he requested. But Im persuaded Mr C agreed in 
principle that the car would be repossessed  the date and time may have had to change for 
many reasons. I agree that under  certain conditions it may be necessary to get a court  order  
to repossess a car that is the subject of a hire purchase agreement.  However, here Im 
satisfied Mr C did give consent so there  was no repossession. As repossession, broadly 
speaking, means taking possession of a something  without consent.  I see Mr C says he later 
withdrew his consent,  but that is not clear from the information I have seen. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly and reasonably  say that Loans 2 Go did act 
inappropriately.
reduced settlement  offer
Loans 2 Go have provided information  to show  the total amount outstanding, after the 
vehicle was sold at auction, was £8,000.48. Mr and Mrs C have only paid £826.68 after 
originally borrowing £2,000 plus interest.
Loans 2 Go have offered the settle  the outstanding  balance for a full and final settlement of 
£1,000.
If Mr and Mrs C agree  this will mean they will have paid £1,826.68  towards  the original 
amount of £2,000.
This seems to me to be a fair and reasonable offer.
From what  Ive seen, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs C ought to have been aware of the terms 
and conditions they agreed  to and the implications if they didnt maintain their repayments 
under that agreement. Im satisfied Loans  2 Go have been fair and reasonable in their 
actions, and so Im not going to ask them to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6882829