K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Finance Ltd took his car under  false pretences  after he had 
failed to make payments  on his hire purchase agreement. 
background
In September  2016 Mr B acquired a second  hand car funded by a hire purchase agreement  
with Advantage.  In early 218 he was suffering financial difficulties and missed his March  
payment. On 22 March  Mr B asked the account be put on hold as he had lost his job. 
Advantage asked  for evidence of his financial positon and said it would usually expect 50% 
of the monthly  payments to be paid.
He next contacted the business in early April after a second payment had been missed. In 
later April he told Advantage that he was in receipt of jobseekers allowance  and shortly after 
this he offered to make  payments  of £40 a month. It asked for details of his income  and 
expenditure and says no response was received. It then arranged  collection of the car which 
took place in early  June.  
Mr B says that when  the car was collected  he was told there  was an order to collect  the car 
and so he handed over the keys. He says he was told it would cost him more if he didnt 
hand the car back. He explained to this service  that he was only £20 short of paying one 
third of the sum due and if this had been paid Advantage would have had to obtain a court 
order.
The collection agent says there was no response when he called even though it appeared 
that the house was occupied. There was no response to a phone call and so he sent an 
email to which Mr B responded asking that he call the following day if he wanted to collect 
the car. The agent said he would  return later that day and when he did so Mr B was 
emptying the car and he handed over the keys and the agent  signed  the V5 document.
Some three weeks later Mr B complained to Advantage and said it should have obtained 
court order.  It rejected  his complaint and he brought the matter  to this service  where  it was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
As Mr B lives in Scotland he had to consider  if Advantage should have obtained court  order 
He noted the email  exchange between Mr B and the agent  and the fact Mr B had said he 
discussed the potential costs of recovering the vehicle, which  would have increased the 
arrears. He explained that as Mr B had asked  the agent to return this showed  he was willing  
to surrender the car.
He referred to the collection agents  testimony which said the car was surrendered  without a 
lot of dialogue. He also noted  his initial message advising  Advantage he was at Mr Bs home  
address and the car was unlocked. Our adjudicator thought that if he intended to recover the 
vehicle  he wouldve  started proceedings before he could discuss the situation  with Mr B. 
He added the fact Mr B provided the V5 indicated he was surrendering the car.
He thought it likely the potential costs  of repossession were discussed. He believed there 
would be further  costs involved and on balance he considered it most  likely Mr B had 
surrendered the car.
Ref: DRN65520202Mr B didnt agree and said the agent had come to collect  the car regardless of what  he 
wanted. He had been pressurised into handing over the keys to avoid further costs and he 
hadnt been given time to finds out what his rights were. He added  that the car wasnt  
unlocked and he was trying to sort out an arrangement to pay his debt right up to the time 
the car was taken.
The adjudicator obtained the instructions  Advantage  had given the agent  which were to 
repossess the car. However,  he explained he had to consider what had happened  and he 
didnt believe the car was repossessed. He said this amounted to it being taken without 
Mr Bs permission,  but as this had been  given.
Mr B didnt agree and said the fact Advantage  had authorised repossession showed  it hadnt 
intended it be surrendered and this had only happened because the agent had lied to him 
and threatened  him with the costs of towing it away. He had been put in a position  where  he 
felt obliged to let the agent take the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr B, but I find myself in agreement with the adjudicator. I will 
explain why.
Mr B made his last payment on the car on 1 February and it was collected until some  four 
months later. In between there had been contact  between Mr B and Advantage and some 
progress was being made towards agreeing a repayment plan, but as far as I can see he 
failed to supply  his income and expenditure details to allow the business to see if it could 
agree his offer of £40 a month.
I consider it was reasonable for the business  to act to obtain possession of the car in those 
circumstances. It instructed the agent to take all reasonable steps to seek  possession of 
this vehicle.  I dont consider this to be an order to repossess the car. It allowed the agent  to 
exercise judgement  as to how best to have the car returned to Advantage. The agent could 
have sought a court order, but chose  to seek voluntary surrender.
Had it gone down  the legal route the matter would have been more  costly for Mr B. I cannot 
say what was said by either the agent or Mr B when  the car was collected. Both have 
different recollections  of what transpired.  In short Mr B emptied the car and gave the agent 
the keys. If he had not done so I presume  the agent  would  have obtained  court order and 
Mr B would have incurred yet more  costs. Overall I cannot say that I am persuaded that Mr B 
was misled.
I would add that I have reviewed  Advantages internal notes and I am satisfied that it had 
given Mr B due notification that the account  would be defaulted.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
16 October 2019.
Ref: DRN65520203Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6552020