K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C bought the policy when he took out a loan (loan reference  ending 6700) in 1991. The 
loan included an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint because:
I think Lloyds made  Mr C aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it out. The loan agreement described the PPI as optional  and Mr C had to 
indicate if he wanted it or not. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C  and it seems to have  been  right for him based  
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. While he was eligible for some  sick 
and redundancy  pay through his work,  the PPI wouldve made  his monthly  loan 
repayments for up to 12 months  for an unemployment claim, and for the full term of the 
loan if he was off sick. This wouldve left any payments from his employer available for 
other things, and couldve prevented him defaulting on the loan.
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even  if it 
had, I think Mr C would still have bought it. 
Given how long the policy  could have paid out for, if Mr C made a successful claim he 
couldve got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. 
Mr C wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early.  I dont  know if Lloyds thought  about this when it recommended the policy, or 
if it explained the situation clearly  to Mr C. But I havent seen anything to suggest he 
thought hed repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt  right for 
him  or that better information about  this wouldve stopped him buying it.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr C 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments,  including what hes said about  other  PPI 
complaints having  been  upheld by Lloyds. He says his circumstances were  the same  and 
thinks Lloyds decision on those complaints should set a precedent and this complaint 
should be upheld  too. But these points  dont change my conclusion.  We look at each 
Ref: DRN66541802complaint on its own merits. I dont know why Lloyds upheld his other  complaints, or whether 
each PPI policy or the sales processes  were  different in some way. But based  on what I 
know about this sale (for PPI sold with the loan reference ending 6700) I dont think  this PPI 
policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6654180