K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says Aviva Insurance Limited  has failed to settle her claim in accordance  with a view 
issued by this Service in September 2016.
References to Aviva  include any acts or omissions  by its agents.
background
This case has been ongoing  for some time - there have been  many twists and turns  in the 
situation. While theres  a considerable amount of detailed evidence  to review, the basic facts 
are not disputed.
In March 2010 a local utility company dug a trench  along the gable  end wall of Mrs Hs 
property. This was to replace a sewage  pipe which had been causing problems in the locality  
for a number of years.
Following completion of the works  extensive  damage to her home  became apparent. 
Ultimately Aviva accepted  a claim Mrs H made on her building  insurance policy. After its loss 
adjuster had assessed the problems it appointed contractors to put matters right.
When an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repair we expect  it to indemnify the 
policyholder by carrying out an effective  and lasting repair. Unfortunately, following more 
than one attempt  Aviva wasnt able to meet this obligation  to Mrs H.
In September  2016 this Service issued a view which, amongst other recommendations, said 
Aviva should  appoint a surveyor to identify  all outstanding  repairs required to complete the 
reinstatement of Mrs Hs home.  It also required Mrs H to provide three independent  quotes  
so that Aviva  could  select a contractor to complete the works.
After the surveyor produced his extensive report in January 2017 impetus was lost. This 
seems to have been caused by a number  of factors including:
-Ongoing concerns about continued  movement at the property.
-The failure to obtain  three comprehensive  quotations covering the work required as 
set out in the surveyors report  from January  2017.
-The surveyors engagement with the project coming to an end.
Mrs H is frustrated that a final resolution  to her claim has still not been  agreed.  Last year she 
obtained two quotes for the work required. Aviva  says its committed to doing  the right thing 
by Mrs H. But its concerned the quotes provided  cant be reconciled  to the surveyors  report 
from January 2017.
The investigator thought the quotes  for the work were sufficient to move forward  given the 
circumstances. But both parties seem to have been reticent about the best way to proceed.  
So Mrs Hs case  has been passed  to me.
Given the background here, essentially my task was to bring matters to a satisfactory  
closure for both parties. I issued my provisional  decision  earlier this month. Neither party  
provided new evidence  or arguments.
Ref: DRN65024742Of the options available to Mrs H - which were broadly consistent with what Aviva  had 
proposed - she chose  a cash  settlement  based on the lower  of the quotes for works she 
obtained last year (more details are provided below).
So, I see no reason  to depart from my original  conclusions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive thought about what Mrs H has told us about how she wants her claim finalised. And Ive 
reviewed Avivas most recent proposals  in this regard. Im also mindful both parties are keen 
to move to a swift resolution.
In setting out three options available to Mrs H, I thought each proposal would represent a fair 
outcome in respect of the settlement of her complaint.
I couldnt give Mrs H advice about  which of the options she should choose. But I highlighted 
some obvious potential pros and cons. These were not intended to be exhaustive. They 
were to be helpful as a starting point for Mrs H in thinking through  the implications of each 
option given her own situation,  preferences  and future plans.
Option 1: Aviva retain oversight of the repairs and responsibility for ensuring  these  are 
effective and lasting.
This wouldve entailed  the appointment of an independent engineer to produce a detailed  
schedule of repairs and tender document  and then obtain three  competitive  tenders. They  
wouldve administered the contract and supervised the repairs  to ensure they were  carried 
out to the correct standard.
An advantage of this option  for Mrs H wouldve been that any of the risks associated with 
such a significant  project  wouldve been borne  by Aviva. So, for example, if after producing  a 
detailed schedule of works new related problems were uncovered then it wouldve had to 
deal with these  matters. 
This option wouldve meant the project  wouldnt have  been under Mrs Hs control  and shed 
still have had to deal with Aviva and its agents. I recognised  in light of her experience she 
might find this difficult. But I urged her to give full consideration to the advantages associated  
with this approach  when  she weighed  her decision.
Option 2: Cash settlement  based on independent  valuations of the property in its current and 
future fully reinstated condition.
This wouldve involved obtaining two valuations of Mrs Hs property. These  wouldve been  
provided by an independent surveyor to be agreed  with Mrs H. The first valuation figure 
wouldve been the price that could be achieved for her home on the open  market in its 
current condition and with full disclosure, for example about the extent of the reinstatement 
works required. The second  valuation  wouldve  been based on what  price  could be achieved 
for Mrs Hs property  in the current market  if it had been fully reinstated.
Ref: DRN65024743The difference between these figures wouldve represented the full and final cash 
settlement.
Mrs H has mentioned previously her plans to downsize. This option wouldve allow her to 
move on as soon as the sale was complete and she wouldnt have had to deal with any 
ongoing works.
However, this option was subject to housing market risk. Thats  to say the valuations 
provided wouldve  been taken at a snapshot  in time.  The valuations mayve  proved too low, 
or too high.  But once  a settlement had been accepted  as full and final that would be the end 
of matters between  the parties. There wouldve been no trailing wires  neither party 
wouldve been able to reopen the issue with the benefit of hindsight.
Mrs H decided on the third option set out in my provisional decision.  This is detailed in the 
section below about putting  things  right below.
Monitoring of property  movement
I understand that following  the partial underpinning of her property by one of Avivas 
contractors, Mrs H raised concerns about  subsidence at her home. It was agreed her 
property should  be monitored for any signs of movement. This has been ongoing for over 
eight months with further measurements due until a years worth of data has been captured.
To date the specialist  reports havent  found  any movement of structural  significance at 
Mrs Hs property. Movement detected has been well within  normal  tolerances.  And the 
advice of Avivas experts is that theres  no reason  to delay repairs.
I note that given the time of the year and the scale of the reinstatement project  which is the 
subject of this decision,  its likely the final measurements and report on the unrelated matter 
of movement at the property will be available before any works begin anyway. And it seems 
to me prudent in the circumstances to ensure this is the case so a line can be drawn under 
this specific matter and no further  complications  emerge.
putting things right
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right for Mrs H in accordance  with Option 3 in 
my provisional decision.
It should cash settle based on the lower of the quotes for works obtained by Mrs H last 
summer, adjusted for any inflation in the domestic  construction sector, but excluding  VAT.
If Mrs H provides Aviva with invoices for the works  where she incurs VAT it will meet  this 
cost in addition  to the cash settlement. But Avivas  liability for building works cant  exceed 
the inflation adjusted quote  (including VAT).
Its possible Mrs Hs property wont be in a habitable condition  while  some of the works  are 
ongoing. While she has said its her intention  to remain in her home throughout,  Aviva  
should also pay for any reasonable alternative accommodation and removal costs  if these 
are ultimately incurred by Mrs H.
Ref: DRN65024744Mrs H understands once she accepts a full and final cash  settlement that is the end of 
matters between the parties (aside from any VAT, alternative accommodation or removal 
costs as Ive already set out). So, for example, Mrs H understands  that if her contractors  
carry out repairs to her property which arent effective or long lasting, or they cause damage, 
then Aviva wont be liable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mrs Hs complaint.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest  and/or costs that I think  are appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is more than £150,000,  I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
decision and award: My decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should meet the costs of 
putting things  right up to a maximum of £150,000.
recommendation: If Aviva Insurance Limited incur compensation costs exceeding 
£150,000, I recommend that it makes good  the balance. This recommendation is not part of 
my determination or award. Aviva doesnt have to do what  I recommend. Its unlikely that 
Mrs H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs H may therefore 
want to get independent  legal advice before deciding  whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6502474