K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc didnt  update his address when he moved  house.  
As a result, he overlooked  a credit card account  and paid interest on the balance.  
background
Mr S had a credit  card, issued by Bank  of Scotland  under its Halifax  brand. Hes explained  
that he moved house in or about September 2105  and told Halifax  his new address. Halifax  
didnt, however, update its records. It says it didnt receive any notification that Mr S had 
moved, but that it wouldnt have changed its records on the basis of a telephone call. Mr S 
would have had to write or visit a branch to get his address  changed. Mr S says he did write.  
At the time,  Mr Ss account had a balance of a little over £10,000. Hed set up a direct debit 
to pay the minimum balance each month,  and that continued to operate  paying interest 
that had accrued and a small amount of the outstanding balance.  Because  of that, he 
incurred no fees,  and the account operated within its limits. Mr S didnt otherwise use the 
credit card or the account connected to it. 
Some time later, in 2018,  Mr S says that he found  some old paperwork relating  to the 
account and realised hed had no communication  from Halifax for some  years.  He 
complained, saying that if Halifax had contacted  him, hed have repaid what he owed in full 
and not paid any interest after he moved  house. He has since paid off the balance.  
Halifax says it has no record of being told about a change  of address and it was under no 
obligation to try to trace  Mr S to update its records. It blocked the credit card account when 
mail was returned, but had no way of contacting Mr S, as this was before it introduced its 
SMS service. 
Mr S complained to this service, but our adjudicator broadly agreed with Halifax.  Mr S didnt 
accept the adjudicators conclusions, so the case has been passed to me  as the final stage 
in our consideration of it.          
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have, however, come to broadly  the 
same conclusions as the adjudicator.
As Ive explained, the bank has no record that it was told Mr S had moved house. And hes 
not provided, for example,  copies of any letters he may have written back in 2015.  I dont  
mean that as a criticism  of either  party; but it does mean I cant fairly conclude  that Halifax  
failed to change  its records when it should  have  done. It may be that Mr S is mistaken  and 
that he didnt,  after all, write to Halifax to tell it hed moved;  its possible  too that he did, but 
Halifax didnt act, or that Halifax didnt receive his letter.
I dont think, however, this makes any difference to the overall outcome here. When he 
moved house, Mr S clearly knew about the credit card account  and that it had an 
outstanding balance on it. He would have  known too roughly what  the balance  was and that 
hed set up a direct debit  to make the minimum payment each month.  Further, even if he 
wasnt receiving credit card statements, his bank statements  would have shown payments 
being made to Halifax each  month.  So, even if I accept Mr Ss case  that he told Halifax hed 
Ref: DRN67827462changed his address but it did nothing, I still dont believe it would be fair to ask it to refund 
the interest hes paid.  
Mr S says that Halifax should  have tried to trace him when statements were returned  
undelivered. I dont  agree.  First, Mr S owed  money to Halifax, whether or not Halifax was 
able to trace  him. Second, it would have  been  extremely difficult, if not impossible, to do so 
without the risk of disclosing information about  him to others. I believe too that Halifax  was 
justified in blocking the account  when  statements  were returned. Had it not done so, there  
was a risk that information about Mr S and his finances would fall into the wrong  hands  
and/or be used fraudulently. The block on the account had no direct impact  on Mr S, since  
he wasnt using it. But it also meant that he didnt find out until some time later that the 
banks records werent up to date. 
I accept that Mr S probably  would have repaid off his credit  card sooner, had he been  
reminded of it. But I dont  believe I can fairly conclude that Halifax was to blame for the fact 
he appears to have overlooked it.
my final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6782746