K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the delay in receiving the maturity value of his Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited  endowment policy.
background
On 19 December 2016 Aviva wrote  to Mr P enclosing a maturity pack for his policy.  That 
letter said the current value of the units was £18,418.87 and explained:
This policy will mature on 5 February  2017. The policy value depends on what  the units 
are worth on the maturity  date.
The bid price may rise or fall between now and the maturity date which  means that the 
amount we will pay may be more or less than above.
We enclose:
Payment Instruction Form
A Lost Policy Form
Before paying  the claim  we need:
The completed Payment  Instruction  Form
The Policy  Document
The Lost Policy  Form  completed  and witnessed only if the Policy cannot  be found
Mr Ps endowment policy matured on 5 February  2017; the following day Aviva sent a further 
letter to Mr P. That letter said the maturity value of the policy was £18,896.25  and explained:
We have written to you about  the maturity value due but have not received all we need to 
pay it.
Details of what we need are shown below.
Before paying  the claim  we need:
The completed Payment  Instruction  Form
The Policy  Document
The Lost Policy  Form  completed  and witnessed only if the Policy cannot  be found
Mr P phoned  Aviva  on 16 July 2018.  He asked what interest was being  paid on the policy  
proceeds. He was told no interest was being  paid and the maturity value was waiting for him 
to claim it. The call handler  told Mr P what the maturity value was and sent a copy  of the 
December 2016  maturity pack as that had the forms that Mr P needed to complete.
Mr P phoned  again on 25 October  2018. He again  asked about  interest  on the policy  
proceeds, what the maturity value was, and said hed received a letter with a different value 
in it. The call handler reiterated what Mr P needed  to do to claim the proceeds, confirmed the 
maturity value, said no interest was being  paid and sent the December 2016 maturity pack  
(with claim  forms) again.
On 6 December  2018 Mr P complained  to Aviva, saying he kept calling to ask for a maturity 
statement but Aviva  kept sending  him a statement from December 2016 instead. He said he 
Ref: DRN66281082couldnt claim the policy proceeds  until he got the correct  amount confirmed and had been  
trying to resolve it for months.
Aviva rejected the main thrust of his complaint, saying hed been sent the letters at the time, 
and both times hed called had been given the maturity value over the phone, and the call 
handlers had reissued  the maturity pack (which  was the December 2016 letter).  However 
Aviva said interest would be paid on the maturity amount and apologised for the incorrect  
information Mr P had been given about  that. It said the interest amount would be calculated 
once it received the completed maturity pack, and said a £50 cheque would be sent as 
compensation for the misinformation.
Our investigator thought Avivas offer was fair for the misinformation about  the paying  of 
interest, and that it hadnt done anything  else wrong.  Mr P didnt agree, saying hed accept 
£500 compensation, and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr P wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read and considered 
the whole  file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Mr P was sent the maturity pack in December 2016 so he could complete and return the 
forms; the idea being  theyd be in place ready  for when the policy matured  in February 2017. 
Thats completely  normal and what Id expect to see. The December 2016  pack  gave the 
value at that time as £18,418.87, and said the final value  could be more or less than that. 
Aviva sent the maturity  letter  on 6 February  2017  and in that it confirmed  the final maturity 
value that would be paid was £18,896.25. As Mr P hadnt returned the maturity pack Aviva 
reminded Mr P that the proceeds couldnt be paid until it had that back.
Both those  letters were correctly addressed and werent returned as undelivered  so, on 
balance, I think its likely  they were  received by Mr P. Its not clear why Mr P did nothing  for 
just under eighteen months and then phoned  to ask what interest  was being paid on the 
maturity proceeds as the letters were clear that Mr P needed to claim the proceeds  and they 
werent just rolling  over into a savings account and/or other investment product.
Mr P said the wrong things were sent to him when  he called in July and October 2018, 
saying he kept being sent the December 2016 letter rather than the February  2017  one. But 
thats not the case. When Mr P phoned Aviva in July and October 2018 he asked what  the 
maturity value was and whether interest  would  be paid.  Aviva answered those two questions  
over the phone and sent another copy of the claim pack. As the claim pack was issued in 
December 2016  (not February 2017) Aviva sent the right thing following those  calls.  As Mr P 
didnt ask for the maturity value to be sent in writing then the February 2017 letter wasnt 
also printed off and sent to him.
Mr P said he couldnt claim the policy proceeds  until he got the correct amount  confirmed,  
and that there was a £400 difference in the figures.  The £400 difference  is easy  to answer;  
the lower figure was the value of the policy in December 2016 when the maturity pack was 
issued, and the higher figure  was the actual maturity  value of the policy  in February  2017.  
Ref: DRN66281083The December 2016 explains its the policy value at that time, and the final maturity  value 
could be higher or lower. So theres  no discrepancy in figures and the amount Mr P will be 
paid is the maturity value as set out in the February 2017 letter.
Mr P had everything he needed back in February 2017 as by then he had the claim pack 
(which hed been sent in December 2016) and he had a separate letter  setting out the final 
maturity value. The claim pack  was sent out again  in both July and October 2018, and he 
was told the maturity amount in both those  calls. So again Mr P had everything he needed to 
claim the maturity amount.
The only error Aviva made  is that it said in the calls that interest  wouldnt be paid on the 
maturity value. Aviva has said interest  will be paid and apologised that Mr P was told 
otherwise. It sent a cheque for £50 as compensation for the misinformation. That seems 
more than fair. Mr P wasnt financially disadvantaged  by being given the wrong  information  
as hes actually going to be in a better  position  than hed been  told he would be; hed been  
told hed get no interest  when  actually he will be getting interest paid.
It seems   in June 2019 at least  that Mr P still hadnt claimed the policy  proceeds as he 
said then he wanted  an up to date balance of the policy  account  including the interest and 
would accept £500 compensation.
Aviva told Mr P in December 2018 (in its final response letter) that interest was being  
accrued at approximately  1% over the Bank of England base rate, and that the exact  amount  
will be confirmed  when the policy pays out. Aviva doesnt need to do any more than that and 
I wouldnt expect it to calculate the interest in advance, as the amount of interest  due is 
entirely dependent on when the policy proceeds are paid. 
Im satisfied Aviva has done enough  to resolve  this complaint and that Mr P has everything 
he needs to claim the policy proceeds. For that reason I make no order or award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense  that I consider the offer of £50 made by Aviva Life 
& Pensions  UK Limited in its final response  to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. My final decision  concludes  this services consideration of the complaint,  
which means Ill not be engaging in any further  discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my 
decision before  28 September 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6628108