K821x#15complaint
Mrs D has complained that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unreasonably refused to pay her claim 
under her motor policy.
background
On 1 June 2018, the side airbags  were deployed  on Mrs Ds car, when her husband was 
driving. He heard a noise, asked his passengers  to disembark  and drove slowly on. 
Unfortunately, the rear door was accidentally  left open and it was slammed shut by a low 
post. And then the side airbags deployed  causing  some damage to the interior  of her car. 
Obviously therefore  the airbags needed replacement and the car was recovered  to the main 
manufacturers dealership. Mr D asked them to find out why the airbags deployed and to see 
if there was any fault. The dealership confirmed there was no fault causing the airbags to 
deploy and they had done so as a result of the impact to the sensors at the time. 
So Mrs D made  a claim to SOL. SOL initially refused  to pay the claim, as it was of the view 
the impact was insufficient  to cause this. It also alleged Mr and Mrs D had deliberately 
misrepresented the facts  of the claim. Mrs D appealed. SOL then withdrew its allegation of 
misrepresentation but maintained the airbags must  have deployed due to an electrical  
failure. It said this wasnt covered by the policy so it continued to decline to pay Mrs Ds 
claim.
Mrs D remained  very dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought it 
should be upheld.  He thought SOL should pay the claim  with interest  and pay Mrs D £200  
compensation. SOL disagreed so Mrs Ds complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
In line with all other  motor policies, Mrs Ds policy with SOL provides  cover for accidental 
damage. But it doesnt provide any cover  for any damage caused by mechanical or electrical 
failures. 
Im persuaded by the main  dealerships  assessment of Mrs D car immediately following the 
accident. That assessment confirmed there was no electrical fault registered with the car. 
Therefore, I dont consider the air bags deployed  due to any electrical failure as SOL 
thought. I dont consider SOL has proffered any satisfactory contradictory evidence  to 
dispute the conclusions by the dealership on this point, since such  a fault is usually 
confirmed by the diagnostics.  
The assessment went  on to explain that air bags can be deployed for multiple reasons, 
which includes situations where the damage  to the car was minimal. Its clear  in Mr Ds 
account of the accident that the rear door slammed shut due to hitting this low post. The 
assessment confirms that a door slamming  can register enough on the sensors for the 
sensors then to deploy the airbags. Therefore, I dont consider some exterior  damage 
needed to have occurred to the car in order for the airbags to be deployed as SOL believed. 
Ref: DRN60838732Because of the lack of damage to the outside of the car, SOL then decided, since no impact 
had occurred that there was no insured peril and therefore the claim shouldnt  be paid. But I 
disagree and I dont consider this is a reasonable assumption by SOL. 
From the beginning,  Mr D has always clearly  explained  how the accident happened.  The 
door hit the low post. That in my view is one impact. And that in turn slammed  the door shut. 
That in my view is another  impact. This in turn caused the sensors to deploy the airbags, 
which of course damaged  them, requiring  them to be replaced. This is clearly detailed by the 
dealerships assessment so I consider this is sufficient to show an insured peril occurred, 
which is consequently covered by Mrs Ds policy. 
Therefore, on balance given the lack of persuasive  evidence to the contrary, I am of the view 
that SOL should pay Mrs Ds claim with interest  as damage occurred from an accident, all of 
which is covered under  her policy.
I dont consider SOLs investigation  into and decisions on Mrs Ds claim to have been fair. It 
wrongly jumped  to the conclusion that Mr and Mrs D had misrepresented the facts  on only 
conjecture. This was very distressing to Mrs D. Whilst  I can understand how the accident 
occurred was unusual,  I dont consider that merited such  a conclusion to have  been  drawn  
here. That was hasty and unfair. Its clear to me Mrs D has very carefully explained what  
happened along with Mr D. These  allegations also put Mrs D to some  considerable trouble in 
detailing her complaint.  
So I agree with the investigator that SOL should  pay Mrs D compensation. I also consider 
the sum of £200, which the investigator suggested to be reasonable as its in line with other 
awards I have made in similar circumstances.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Society  of Lloyds to do the following:
Pay Mrs Ds claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from 20 September 2018 being  the date she paid 
for the repairs to her car to the date it pays her claim. If income tax is to be deducted 
from the interest, appropriate documentation  should be provided  to Mrs D for HMRC 
purposes. 
Pay Mrs D £200 compensation for the distress  and upset  it caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Rona Doyle
Ref: DRN60838733ombudsman
Ref: DRN6083873