K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA). He isnt happy  
about the way it dealt  with a claim under his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr W was involved  in a minor road traffic incident  in July 2018.  He bumped into the back of 
another car. RSA looked into things  for him but felt that he should  be held fully at fault for the 
damage caused to the other  drivers car.
Miss W, on Mr Ws behalf, complained to RSA and then this service. She felt that the other  
driver had claimed for additional  damage that they caused themselves just after the incident.  
And couldnt understand why any claim was being  paid as Mr W said that there wasnt any 
damage to either car at the time of the incident.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W but didnt uphold  the complaint. He was satisfied 
that RSA had acted  reasonably in paying the other drivers damage claim. And although he 
agreed it shouldve  communicated things clearer, and kept Mr W updated about the position 
of the claim, he thought that RSAs offer of £100  compensation for this was fair.
As Mr W didnt agree  the matter has been  passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I wish to reassure Miss W and Mr W that I 
have considered everything  afresh  and listened  to a number of Miss Ws calls so I fully 
understand their concerns and perspective.
Having done so I have a fair degree of sympathy for Miss W and Mr W. I say this as the 
other driver clearly acted unusually at the scene and I understand that he ended up 
damaging his car door by bumping it into another car. And I understand that a police officer 
didnt think that there  was much damage to the cars (from this incident) at the scene and got 
the other driver breathalysed which was negative.
But the thing I have to decide  is whether  RSA has considered the claim fully and acted 
reasonably in deciding liability. I can see that Miss W and Mr W are fully aware of how these  
matters are looked into by this service from the communications with our investigator. They  
understand that it isnt this services role to decide liability, as that is a matter for the courts. 
And that RSA, inline with most  insurers,  has the right to take over the settlement of any 
claim.
So, as Ive said, RSA has the right to decide  whether  to take a third party to court or settle a 
claim. Legal proceedings are time-consuming, expensive and the outcome can be very 
uncertain. And it certainly  isnt always  commercially sensible to take legal action in these 
circumstances.
But our general approach  is to look to see if insurers have acted fairly and reasonably  in 
deciding whether to settle a claim. I expect insurers to make a reasonable assessment, 
based on a clear understanding of the evidence and the circumstances of the accident. 
Ref: DRN60141522I have carefully considered all of the evidence and how RSA handled  Mr Ws claim. And 
although it couldve gained some additional  evidence Im satisfied  that it acted reasonably. I 
can understand Miss W and Mr Ws frustration as they didnt think there was any damage 
caused to the other drivers bumper. They feel that the other  driver has simply claimed for 
the additional door damage that wasnt Mr Ws fault.
I can understand this, especially as the police officer seemed  to agree that there  wasnt  
much or any damage to the other sides bumper. I havent seen any evidence  from the police 
and it would have  been helpful to have seen this. But ultimately Mr W has admitted that his 
car bumped  into the other  drivers bumper which he would always be held at fault for. And 
the other side has provided  evidence from an engineer showing that repairs were 
undertaken to the bumper. The difficulty here is that damage to bumpers is often on the 
inside and cant be seen  to the naked eye. Such damage can often only be seen when the 
bumper is removed from the car or the car is inspected at a garage.
Miss W has also raised the point that she has taken photographs of the other drivers car at 
a later stage, after the repair of the car had taken place. She feels  this shows that the car 
hasnt been repaired  at all. Again, I can understand why Miss W would be suspicious given 
that RSA did consider  fraud in this case (see below).  But RSA has looked into this and 
confirmed that the other driver was involved in another accident  to a similar area of the car 
that was advanced with another  insurer after this incident. So, on balance,  it looks like the 
other sides car was repaired following this accident  as evidenced by the engineers  report.
I note from Miss Ws telephone discussions with the investigator her concerns around the 
industry and how potential fraudulent claims are looked at generally. I must highlight  that this 
service isnt the industry regulator and doesnt  look at allegations of criminality. Such  issues 
would have to be advanced separately  with the regulator or the police and details of who 
Miss W can approach can be provided separately if she wishes.  This service  has simply 
looked at Mr Ws complaint about whether  RSA has looked at the liability  dispute 
reasonably.
Ultimately, I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably in settling this claim. I say this as it isnt 
disputed that there  was a minor bump  - as evidenced from the telematics data on Mr Ws 
car; the dash cam footage from the scene;  and Miss W has acknowledged during her calls 
that her son was doing approximately  20 miles per hour at the time of the incident. Plus,  
there is no suggestion that other  areas of the third partys car were repaired from the 
engineers report  provided. Although I can see that the total cost of the claim was heavily 
impacted by hire car charges incurred when the other drivers car was in for repair  there isnt 
any evidence to suggest that other areas of the third partys car were repaired.
However, I can understand that Miss W and Mr W are frustrated as the matter was 
forwarded to RSAs fraud department. Im sure they felt that there wouldnt be a fault claim 
held against them. And RSA shouldve  communicated more clearly and quickly  about all of 
this. But the fact that RSA looked  at whether  the other driver was acting fraudulently  does 
show that RSA took Mr Ws defence seriously, especially in the early stages. But it 
concluded that the claim was genuine.  
I know Miss W feels that no one wants to challenge  the insurers  position here.  But it isnt 
disputed that Mr Ws car hit the rear of the other  driver and although Miss W disputes that 
there was any damage, the evidence  suggests  there was. And Mr W would be held at fault 
for any damage caused as he hit the back of the car in front.
Ref: DRN60141523Finally, I note that RSA has offered £100 compensation to account  for its poor 
communication around this which I feel is fair. I know Mr W would like more compensation 
and feels that RSAs lack of updates  could have  affected his future car insurance. But he 
would be duty bound  to tell any future insurer about  the incident and the true picture was 
ultimately presented  at the time of renewal. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6014152