K822xcomplaint
Mr KG brought the complaint on behalf of the Estate of Miss FG, as the Executor of her Will. 
He said Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to complete  adequate  identity  checks  when 
paying out his late sisters  policy. He said that if these checks  been completed it wouldve 
been clear that he and his sister,  Miss JG, hadnt  signed the claim form.
background 
The late Miss FG took out a life policy in 2000 and, according to Avivas records, she chose 
her three siblings as beneficiaries. When she died in 2011, Aviva  received a claim form from 
one sibling, Mr RG, but said that it couldnt  pay out as the form only contained  two of the 
three beneficiaries, Mr RG and his brother Mr KG. It needed the third sibling.
Mr RG sent in a second form which included all three alleged  signatures; the evidence 
strongly suggests that the third signatory was not a sibling/sister but Mr RGs wife, whose 
first name also began with a J. The form asked for the proceeds to be paid to Mr RG at he 
and his wifes address  which Aviva  did.
In 2017, Mr KG obtained a Grant of Probate  (GOP) so that he could administer his late 
sisters estate. When he contacted Aviva,  it said it had paid out the policy years earlier  and 
sent Mr KG copies of the forms and proof of payment. Mr KG said he hadnt  signed the claim 
form and that the signature was clearly not his. He also said that the person who signed 
claiming to be his surviving  sister  was his brothers wife. He pointed  that she had used her 
own first name rather than his sisters (which varied by just one letter).
Aviva rejected the complaint,  saying it relied on the honesty and integrity of its customers  
and had paid out in good faith. It also said it no longer  retained  any paperwork beyond  that 
relating to the surrender.  This meant it no longer had Miss FGs original application or details 
or any related  details  (though it confirmed Miss FGs  recorded beneficiaries were her three 
siblings).
An investigator at this service felt the complaint should be partially upheld. In summary, he 
said:
Im not persuaded Aviva did all it shouldve done to satisfy the correct parties had signed the 
form. Aviva  said in its letter dated 1 June 2018  that having received the first claim form, it 
identified there were three siblings
If it needed permission  from all three siblings then it would be reasonable to check  that the 
names printed  on the claim form matched that of Miss FGs true siblings. What  I do believe 
is quite clear is that one of the siblings wasnt true and had further  information  been 
requested this wouldve come to light.
I believe the circumstances  involved here (an estate  seeking monies) warranted  reasonable 
checks to make sure it was being claimed by the correct parties.
I appreciate Aviva feels it did all it could but I cant agree, so in order  to put things right,  Im 
recommending Aviva  pay Mr KG £503.00. I dont feel its fair to recommend all the claim but 
my rationale for recommending this amount  is because Mr KG has said minus the funeral 
expenses, £1,509.00 wouldve been left to the three  true siblings.
Ref: DRN69011582So, whilst we do not know for sure what happened to the proceeds of the claim, this is a fair 
and reasonable resolution given that Aviva shouldve completed  adequate checks  at the 
time.
Mr KG did not agree,  adding that his surviving  sister was also deprived  of her rightful share 
of this policy and Aviva should be required to pay this too.
Aviva reiterated that it had advised  Mr KG to contact the Police as it considered this a family 
matter. It did not comment on the investigators  proposed compensation.
In my view, in order to progress this case I needed  to know  if the surviving sister Miss JG 
agreed with Mr KGs account  and also claimed she had not signed the form. After discussing 
this issue with her, she wrote confirming that she had not signed  the claim form or received 
any money and wished to be a party  to this complaint.
In a Provisional  Decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered whether it was more likely than not that Aviva  paid out the 
proceeds correctly, in line with Miss FGs wishes; and, if it didnt, whether it took sufficient  
steps to try and establish the correct  beneficiaries.
In the absence of the original paperwork it is impossible to be certain as to who were  named 
as beneficiaries. But from Avivas responses, I think its safe to assume that it still had this 
paperwork in 2013 (the policy being still be live at this point) as it was able to inform  Mr RG 
that there  were three beneficiaries, not two; also, its correspondence indicates that these 
were recorded as Miss FGs siblings.
I cannot be certain as to whether her true sibling Miss JG was correctly  listed on the original 
form, as opposed  to Mrs JG, Mr RGs wife (for reasons Ive explained  further on). But I have 
not relied entirely on this assumption  when  reaching  a conclusion about the merits of this 
complaint.
For various reasons,  which the investigator  outlined  at greater length (and Aviva has not 
disputed), I am satisfied that the evidence strongly suggests that it did not pay the proceeds 
to all three beneficiaries  and that Mr RG did not have the written authority of his two 
surviving siblings  to receive  all the proceeds himself.  I have found Mr KG and Miss FGs 
evidence persuasive  and convincing, particularly in the light of the lengthy steps Mr KG has 
taken including  pursuing this with the Police.  Crucially, all the proceeds were  paid to Mr RG 
and his wife, and I have seen no evidence  this was shared with Mr KG and Miss FG. 
So I have focussed on what steps Aviva took or, in my view, should have taken to ensure  it 
paid out the proceeds correctly.
Firstly, while  there  has been some discussion between Mr KG and the investigator about the 
similarity/difference between Mr KGs alleged signature (on the claim form) and his real 
signature, I dont think this is relevant.  This is because in my experience (and that of 
colleagues Ive discussed this with), businesses do not typically require the beneficiaries  of a 
life insurance policy  to provide a signature when a policy is set up. Generally, they will simply 
require the policyholder to sign the application  form where they have specified their 
Ref: DRN69011583nominated beneficiaries.  So I think  it is unlikely that Aviva would have had any of the 
beneficiaries signatures on file when it came to assessing the claim form.
Given this, the alleged signatures  of the beneficiaries would not have provided any reliable 
evidence as to whether  the true beneficiaries were giving their consent to the proceeds 
being paid to one of them. I do believe Aviva  needed to take some steps to ensure  it was 
paying out the proceeds correctly (even within the more limited regulatory requirements  back  
in 2011). There is no evidence that Aviva took any such steps  before  paying the entire  claim 
to one of the beneficiaries.
As I referred  to above, I cannot  be certain that Miss FGs sister was correctly listed  on the 
original application.  I understand  that Mr RG assisted Miss FG in filling  out the application 
;form so it is possible that he wrote his wifes first name (there  being only one letter different) 
as Miss FGs sister. If so, Aviva would  have had no reason to query that his wife signed the 
claim form, claiming to be a sibling.
However, if Aviva had carried out appropriate security checks  I think  this issue  would, more 
likely than not, have  come to light. It is clear  that Miss FG intended  her three  siblings to 
share the policy proceeds in the event  of her death so even if her sisters first name  had 
been spelt incorrectly on the application  form, I think Aviva should have  after appropriate 
checks  spotted  this anomaly and realised who was the correct female beneficiary. It would 
have then paid Miss JG her share of the policy rather  than allow  this, in effect, to go to Mr 
RG and/or  his wife.
I note the investigator  attempted  to take into account the likely funeral expenditure and who 
paid for this in assessing how much compensation Aviva should  pay. I dont agree with this 
for two reasons. Firstly,  my role is to decide if Aviva failed to pay the proceeds to the correct  
beneficiaries and how much the two complainants would have received but for its failings. 
Secondly, having discussed the question of Miss FGs assets and who paid what for the 
funeral, I am satisfied  that this is a much more complicated issue, including ongoing disputes  
about other assets from Miss FGs estate.
Finally, I acknowledge  that instructing Aviva to pay this money  to Miss FGs  estate, via her 
Executor, is not ideal. It is clear that one of the estates beneficiaries has already received 
the entire proceeds of this policy and would,  in theory, be entitled  to a share of this award,  
something which would obviously  be inappropriate.  However, this is something  outside this 
services control as we can only make  awards to the eligible complainant; in this case, Miss 
FGs Estate. It will be up to the Executor of Miss FGs estate to deal with distributing the 
compensation award.
I currently intend to instruct  Aviva to pay two-thirds of the value  of Miss FGs  life policy  to the 
Estate of Miss FG. In general,  this service would also tell the business to add interest to any 
loss figure from the date the complainant/s  ought to have received their money.  But in this 
case I dont think this is fair or reasonable, mainly because Aviva  has already paid out the 
full proceeds (albeit wrongly in my view).
Both parties  accepted my Provisional Decision,
Ref: DRN69011584my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons previously outlined, I am satisfied that this complaint  should be upheld  with 
compensation as outlined.
my final decision
I instruct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  to pay two-thirds of the value of Miss FGs life 
policy to the Estate of Miss FG. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative 
of Miss FGs Estate to accept or reject  my decision before 23 July 2021.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6901158