K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP gave her loans irresponsibly.
Background
This complaint is about two payday loans Uncle Buck provided to Mrs B in October and 
December 2013,  as follows:
Loan No Amount Date lent Loan term Date repaid
1 £350 3.10.13. 23 days 25.10.13
2 £450 6.12.13 15 days -
Loan one was repaid on schedule but loan two fell into arrears,  was ultimately sold on to a 
third party and remains outstanding.
Mrs B feels  that Uncle Buck was wrong to lend to her. At the time she was suffering with 
severe mental illness, was gambling  and drinking extensively, and she was struggling  to 
manage her finances. She was sectioned under the Mental Health Act during 2014 but, prior 
to this, had been receiving treatment for her condition.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Whilst sympathising with Mrs Bs situation,  
she didnt think that there  was anything apparent to Uncle Buck  in the results  of its checks  
that shouldve  alerted  it to her difficulties.
Mrs B disagreed and the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN68024742the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  At the time of the loans the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading whose 
guidance said that repaying  credit  in a sustainable manner means being able to repay credit 
out of income  and/or  available savings and without undue difficulty.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Before it lent to her, Uncle Buck asked Mrs B for details of her monthly income   which  she 
declared to be £2,230  - and it verified this to be accurate  by undertaking a credit check. It 
also carried out a work  verification check to confirm  Mrs Bs employment  status.  Uncle Buck 
has told us that it carried  out credit  checks with a credit reference  agency before each loan. I 
havent seen the full results of those credit  checks, but Uncle  Buck has said that the results  
didnt cause any concerns.
The amounts that Mrs B had to repay to Uncle Buck didnt represent  a significant proportion  
of her monthly income.  Given that these  were the only loans that she took from Uncle  Buck, 
and recognising what was apparent about her circumstances  at the time, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask her for the amount of information (such  
as copies of bank statements etc.) that wouldve been needed to show  that the lending was 
unsustainable.
In response to the adjudicators opinion  Mrs B sent us copies of her bank statements. From 
these I can see evidence  of extensive gambling and of other short term loan commitments at 
the time Uncle Buck provided these loans. Its also apparent that Mrs B was receiving 
regular financial support from her then husband. In the light of this I appreciate that Mrs Bs 
actual financial situation was quite different to what Uncle Buck  had understood it to be.
But, this wasnt something she told Uncle Buck  when she asked for the loans. And there  
wasnt anything in the information  Mrs B provided,  or the information  Uncle  Buck shouldve 
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  she was 
saying. As such,  I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for Uncle  Buck to have asked 
Mrs B for sight of her bank statements. And so I dont see any reason why Uncle  Buck 
shouldve been  aware that Mrs B was experiencing financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN68024743I do acknowledge that Mrs B was, at the time the loans were  given,  receiving treatment for 
serious health issues that might well have had an impact upon  her ability  to manage her 
finances. But she didnt  disclose this to Uncle Buck and, here again, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect  the lender to have been  aware  of this.
Mrs B also told us that itd been  necessary for her ex-husband to repay the first loan to Uncle 
Buck on her behalf.  She told us that Uncle Buck had been aware of this before it lent to her a 
second time because  hed personally called Uncle Buck to make  the repayment.  
Uncle Buck  has checked its files and cant see any record of having received a call from 
Mrs Bs ex-husband. And its told us that it doesnt  retain any call recordings from this time. 
However, from the bank  statements that Mrs B provided to us, I can see that the repayment  
for loan one was made by a debit  card from her own, sole bank account. I can also see that 
there were a number  of payments  received  by Mrs B around that time, apparently from her 
ex-husband, that do tend to corroborate  that Mrs B was financially dependent  upon him. But 
I dont think theres any reason why Uncle Buck shouldve  known  this, particularly given the 
evident source of the repayment  of loan one. 
In all of these circumstances  I cant see anything that would suggest Uncle  Buck was aware, 
or shouldve  been aware, that Mrs B was experiencing financial  difficulties,  or that she was 
suffering with ill health that may have impaired her financial management. Im sorry that it 
will be a disappointment  to Mrs B but I dont think that Uncle  Buck was wrong to provide 
these loans to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6802474