K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending  Stream (Gain Credit) irresponsibly lent 
to him. He wants a full interest repayment for all loans and to be paid compensation for 
years of stress caused.
background 
This complaint is about 3 payday loans Gain Credit provided to Mr B between  22 May 2015  
and 26 May 2015.  Mr Bs borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan number Date Loan 
TakenAmount Instalments Due Date Highest  
Repayment
1 22/05/2015 £350 6 25/11/2015 £151.20
2 24/05/2015 £400 6 25/11/2015 £324
3 26/05/2015 £500 6 25/11/2015 £540
Mr B said Gain  Credits  lending was irresponsible because he had multiple loans at the 
same time and was struggling financially.
Our adjudicator rejected  the complaint about loans 1 and 2; but partially upheld Mr Bs 
complaint and thought loan 3 shouldnt have  been  given. Gain Credit agreed with our 
adjudicators view and made an offer to Mr B which was in line with our approach. 
Mr B at first accepted our adjudicators view but then declined  Gain  Credits  offer saying its 
redress calculation was incorrect. He later added he wanted  the full interest repaid on loans 
1, 2 and 3 and a gesture  of goodwill payment  from Gain Credit  for the years of stress it 
caused him. The case was then passed to me to look at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Gain Credit needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Gain Credit should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN66897442the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. However, I dont think we reach  that point 
in Mr Bs case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Gain Credit  was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
For loans 1 and 2, the highest amount Mr B needed to repay  was around £324 per month. 
Mr B declared an income of £1,400  per month  and Gain Credit estimated outgoings of 
around £348. This left him with a disposable income  of around £1,052. 
I dont think the highest  repayment  was a significant  proportion of Mr Bs declared income 
and I dont think Gain Credit saw anything to suggest Mr B couldnt  afford  to sustain the 
repayments. So overall, in these circumstances,  I think the assessments Gain  Credit  did for 
loans 1 and 2 were  proportionate. And I havent seen anything that would have prompted it 
to investigate Mr Bs circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Gain  Credit  to 
rely on the information it obtained. And I think its decisions  to lend to Mr B were reasonable. 
So Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
As our adjudicator explained in his written view, a proportionate check for loan 3 would most 
likely have shown that Mr B:
owould  have to pay a significant  amount of his monthly income towards  the 
repayments;
ohad problems managing his money  because he told us hed taken out around 
£1,270 of short-term  loans  with other  lenders within the same month;
ohad problems paying previous loans because this was his third loan in 4 days 
and the loan amounts increased with each loan application.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 3 and Gain  Credit should put things right.
Ref: DRN66897443I noted Mr B said he was suffering from stress for years due to his borrowing relationship  
with Gain Credit. He also says Gain Credit was aggressive with him at the time. So Mr B 
wants compensation from Gain Credit - although he did not say in which years the stress 
started and ended, and he did not tell us what aggression was shown at the time. However, I 
have also seen Mr B was in a borrowing  relationship with Gain  Credit for a limited time and 
was also indebted  to other lenders  for several  short-term loans. So whilst I dont deny  Mr B 
was stressed by his financial situation with all of his short-term lenders, I dont think  there is 
enough here for me to say Gain Credit should  pay compensation for his years of stress.
Mr B also said Gain Credits offer did not use the correct amount of interest.  However, our 
adjudicator said he had looked through the statement of account  for loan 3, and he saw the 
redress calculation was correct and in line with our approach. So I am not going  to change 
what Gain Credit  needs  to do to put things right in respect of the interest payment.  
putting things right  what Gain Credit LLC needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loan 3 from Mr Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit LLC to take off tax from this interest.  Gain  
Credit LLC must give Mr B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6689744