K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained that Acromas Insurance Company Limited  hasnt properly explained 
how it reached a market value for his car. Mr V made a claim under his car insurance policy  
when his car was stolen.  
background
Mr V reported the theft of his car to his insurer, Acromas. It settled Mr Vs claim by paying  
him the market value  of his car. 
Mr V complained that the valuation was too low. Acromas reconsidered and increased the 
valuation twice. In June 2018  it paid Mr V £16,500 (minus an excess  of £100). It then paid a 
further £1,095 as this was the higher  of two motor trade guide valuations  it looked at. 
In September  2018 Acromas increased  the settlement  by a further £1,316 to take into 
account the second hand value of the extras Mr Vs car had. It said it didnt know  about the 
extras when  it decided  its first valuation. 
Mr V remained unhappy  and so he asked us to look at his complaint. He wants  Acromas  to 
provide a more  detailed  explanation as to how it calculated the settlement sum it paid him for 
his car. 
Our investigator explained that Acromas had followed our approach   which was also in line 
with the policy  to rely on the main  motor trade guides when deciding  a valuation.  The trade 
guides are third party companies  and use their own algorithms - so we cant ask Acromas  to 
provide an analysis of how the trade  guides reach  their valuations.  But we know  they are 
based on a combination of likely  selling  prices and auction prices  and we look at the retail  
transacted valuation  they provide. Our investigator thought Acromas had acted reasonably.  
Mr V didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  explained, we dont  decide  a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer  
has reached its valuation  reasonably  and in line with the policy. Weve provided Mr V with 
a copy of the guides we checked  and Acromas also provided Mr V with a copy of the 
valuation guides  it used.
Mr Vs policy  with Acromas says the most  it will pay is the market  value of his car at the time 
of loss. It defines the market value as: 
The cost of replacing  your vehicle with a vehicle  of the same  make,  model,
specification, age, mileage and condition as your vehicle was immediately before the 
loss or damage you are claiming  for.
Acromas initially offered Mr V a market value for his car of £16,500. This was based on one 
of the main motor trade guides. It had looked at two  the other  one gave a valuation of 
£17,595. 
Ref: DRN63702052We find the motor trade guides are more reliable  than adverts as they are based on likely 
selling prices and take into account  regional differences.  Mr V believes Acromas  should  
provide a more  detailed  explanation as to how it decided a valuation  for his car. 
Its not for us - or Acromas - to provide a forensic analysis of what the motor  guides use to 
decide their valuations. They are ultimately  providing an average  figure  - but take into 
account a high volume of auction sales to decide likely selling prices of vehicles. And 
because of the volume they use to provide their data, they can provide average  valuations 
for a specific  make, model,  age, condition and mileage. Looking at all four guides, the 
valuations they gave were similar. And so this gives us a good indication  of a fair value for 
Mr Vs car.
This doesnt mean that the valuation Acromas relied on was an auction  price or trade value. 
The guides  provide trade  values  but also provide retail  transacted valuations  which  is 
higher. This is a guide for what a consumer might  pay for their car from a retail garage. This 
is the guide Acromas  looked at when checking the main motor  trade  guides  - and is the one 
weve checked against. 
Mr V told Acromas  that his car had a number of additional features added  to it  and he 
provided a copy of the original sales invoice to demonstrate this. So Acromas  engineer  
looked at the guides  again  but they didnt  provide a second hand  value for the extras.  
Acromas therefore decided a second  hand value for the extras  on Mr Vs car by applying  the 
same percentage reduction as the difference between the new price of Mr Vs car and the 
market value of it. 
The additional sum Acromas paid Mr V was £1,316. So in total, it paid him a settlement sum 
of £18,911. 
We checked the main  motor trade  guides  and found that Acromas second valuation  of 
£17,595 was toward  the top of the range of the guides. None of the guides provided a 
second hand value for the extras on Mr Vs car. Sometimes extras add value  and sometimes 
they dont. If the insurer has paid within the average of the main trade guides, we generally 
think this is fair. 
I understand Mr V will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Acromas approach to 
deciding a valuation  for the extras was a reasonable one to take.  And I think  the overall total 
loss settlement Acromas  paid Mr V for his car was reached in line with the policy   and our 
approach. So Im not asking it to pay any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6370205