K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about the refusal  of a claim under his legal expenses insurance cover 
by certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds.
background
In July 2018, Mr R made a claim under his policy for the costs of bringing  a professional  
negligence claim against a contract administrator.  The contract administrator was to provide 
services to Mr R in connection with some  building work to his property,  such  as assessing  
how much  work had been done  and whether he should pay bills presented  by the builder  or 
not. The cost of the building  work  was over £150,000.
The underwriters refused to cover  the claim on the basis  that the policy excludes claims 
relating to construction work, or designing, converting or extending any building where the 
contract value exceeds £6,000.  
The underwriters said that but for the construction work, the contract with the administrator 
would not have been formed; the contract does therefore relate to the construction work  and 
is excluded from cover by this exclusion. 
  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and did not recommend that it be upheld. He 
thought that the underwriters were entitled  to refuse cover based on the exclusion.  
Mr R doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment  and has made a number of submissions  
in his original  complaint  and in response to the investigator, which  Ive summarised  below: 
He is not seeking  cover  to pursue a claim against the builder but against the 
administrator, so the term relied on by the underwriters doesnt  apply. 
His case against the administrator is for professional  negligence (and potentially 
misrepresentation in relation to use of accreditations and logos). Nothing in his case 
against the administrator refers to the design or the works involved in the extension  
and conversion  of a building.  
The administrator  had no contractual relationship with the designer or the building 
contractor and had no role in these either; it was not acting  as a project manager. 
The claim he wants to make  is in relation purely  to that contract (between him and 
the administrator) and it is a real stretch  of the imagination  to deem this to relate to 
the building  contract.
The claim cannot relate to design, construction, conversion and extension of his 
building because the contract  administrator has terminated the contract with the 
builder. 
The important distinction  is that the policy clearly does not say anything related  to
these things (i.e. construction or design, conversion or extension) is excluded  but 
claims related to them. The combination of these two elements of the clause mean 
that the claim must  relate to the construction or design for the exclusion to apply. His 
claim relates  to contract administration that relates  to construction, that relates to 
design. His claim therefore indirectly relates to construction and design and does not 
directly relate to the exempted  insurable events,  if design and construction works 
must be specifically stated in relation to conversion  and extension  works then why 
not the very separate activity of Contract  Administration?
Ref: DRN65613952The policy doesnt define relating to. Yes, one contract led to another,  but there is 
no causation in terms of the insurable  event. The underwriters have failed to consider 
the insurable event  and focused on irrelevant connections between  various  contracts.
So while  there would not have been  a contract  administration contract had there  not 
been a construction contract, these are both wholly  different services with completely 
different risk factors. 
The "but for" argument used by the underwriters is irrelevant anyway because a 
contractual default by a builder has no casual  relationship with any default by a 
Contract Administrator,  who's  principle  responsibility is to assess whether works  are 
sufficiently satisfactory  to advise him to release payment and to accept or reject 
contract variations.  
The heart of the matter must  be that his claim relates to contract  administration and 
not construction or design, with his contract with the contract administrator 
specifically not including design  or construction. 
The policy wording is unclear, as it doesnt  refer to administrators or other  indirect 
services that might  be involved in such building work.
If the policy wording is as the underwriters have said then the policy was mis-sold.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. In the 
meantime, the investigator advised Mr R that the policy wasnt  sold by the underwriter and 
so any complaint about how the policy was sold would have to be brought  separately against  
the brokers that sold it to him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy  covers a number  of possible legal disputes, including employment, property 
and contract disputes  in relation to the buying  and selling of goods and services. However, 
the consumer  protection/contract section  is also subject to an exclusion of: 
Any claim relating to:
6. construction  work, or designing, converting or extending any building where the contract
value exceeds  £6,000.
This is not uncommon  in legal expenses insurance policies. Insurers are generally entitled to 
decide what cover they want  to provide  in exchange for the premium they charge. And so it 
is entitled to decide not to cover disputes  relating to significant building contracts, such  as for 
an extension.  I dont think this is inherently unfair.  
Mr R says that the exclusion doesnt apply  to his claim, as he is not seeking cover  for a claim 
against the builder  or directly about  the construction or design of the work.
Mr R has provided some  eloquent and reasoned arguments about the distinction  between  
his contractual  relationship with the administrator and with the builder for the construction of 
his property. However, despite my natural sympathy for his position,  I am unconvinced by 
the arguments he has raised.  
The fact of the matter  is that Mr R would not have  entered into the contract with the 
administrator if it were not for the construction project. Mr R argues that this but for 
argument is questionable and unreasonably  stretches the meaning of the term relating to  
but I disagree. 
Ref: DRN65613953The insured  event is the (alleged) breach of contract  by the contract  administrator but that is 
subject to the exclusion set out above.  Mr R says that the underwriters have failed  to show  
that there  is a causational link between the breach of contract by the administrator and 
anything done  or not done by the builder, or in relation to the construction  or design  but that 
it not required for the exclusion  to apply.  
I have to determine simply whether the claim Mr R wants to take would be deemed to be a 
claim relating to construction  work  or designing, converting or extending costing more than 
£6,000. 
The policy excludes  any claim  relating to the construction or design  or conversion or 
extension of a property. Relating to is not defined in the policy, and therefore I will consider 
its normal meaning. I am satisfied that it is reasonable  to conclude that this means any claim 
that has any connection to the construction or design, conversion  or extension of Mr Rs 
property is excluded. I do not agree that it is an unreasonable stretch  to apply that to the 
contract between him and the contract  administrator appointed specifically to deal with 
aspects of the construction work and the relationship with the builder, on Mr Rs behalf. 
Mr R has referred  to other contracts  he may have  entered  into as an indirect result of having  
this building  work done (such as storing  his possessions) which would be unfair to exclude  
under this term and questions how far the indirect link should stretch.  However, the contract 
with the administrators  was entirely  connected to the building work Mr R was having done, it 
goes to its core as it were.  
Mr R says that if designing and constructing are specifically referred to then other types  of 
work/contractual relationships that might  arise out of the building  work should be specifically 
mentioned, if the underwriters want to exclude  them. I dont agree. It seems to me, the 
exclusion of construction  or design  would  mean  that contractual disputes arising out of large 
building projects  are excluded even if the building work has not commenced  and is still in 
planning stages.  I dont consider it is necessary for the underwriter  to specifically exclude 
any possible  other contractual  relationships  that might arise  out of a building project  of the 
nature Mr R was undertaking.  
I am also satisfied that it is sufficiently  clear and unambiguous and am therefore satisfied 
that the underwriters  are entitled to rely on it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6561395