K820x#14The complaint
Mrs D says AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of the policy  insurer.  I cant  consider
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  were  regulated by the then Financial Services
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our
jurisdiction.
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer  to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997 to cover  a store card account. Mrs Ds 
recollection is that it was sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
So, the complaint has been passed  to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.
AXA should  have taken reasonable steps  to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs Ds 
recollection is that the policy  was sold to her in-store, she says she was pressured into 
taking it and didnt  think she would have been given the store card unless she took the 
policy.
But AXA has been able to give us a copy of Mrs Ds store  card application and credit  
agreement. And that application shows that Mrs D took her store  card in September 1994  
and at that time ticked a box to say she didnt  want to take the payment and card protection.
AXA has been able to confirm that the policy was added to the store  card in June 1997. And 
it was sold to Mrs D during a phone  call. While  I dont know for sure how the PPI policy  was 
presented to Mrs D during  that call, on balance,  I think it most likely  AXA made it clear that 
Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I say this because  even  
though we dont have  telephone scripts from that time, we have seen them from 2003 which 
show that Mrs D would have, most  likely, been  given a choice  about  taking PPI cover.  But 
the length of time since the sale must be borne in mind when thinking about how much 
weight to attach  to this.
Ref: DRN68992062However, Ive also borne  in mind that Mrs D had decided not to take the policy  when she 
took out the actual store  card itself in 1994 but agreed to take it three years later. She had 
had the store card for three years  by the time of the PPI sale so she knew she could use the 
store card without it. So, overall, I think Mrs D knew she had a choice and decided  to take it.  
AXA says it wouldnt have  given  advice during the sales phone call. Mrs D has said that she 
was advised to take the policy. But from what Mrs D has told us, her recollections  appear to 
relate more  to the store card application itself rather than PPI sale,  which is understandable 
as the policy  sale was over 20 years  ago. And from what we know about how AXA sold this 
type of policy around the time Mrs D took the policy I think  its unlikely it did give advice to 
Mrs D, so it didnt have  to check if it was suitable  for her. That was for Mrs D to decide. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide if it was right
for her.
As I dont know how the policy was presented  to Mrs D its possible the information AXA 
gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But based on what  Ive seen 
of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  she hasnt told us that she suffered from any pre-
existing medical conditions as an example. Mrs D says she would have received sick pay 
and redundancy  benefits  from her employer. But the PPI would have paid out alongside her 
employee benefits meaning  she could have used those benefits to cover  other  essential  
costs at what could  have been  a difficult time.
Ive not seen any evidence that the policy was unaffordable. As such, I dont  think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs D off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mrs D has lost out because of anything AXA might have done wrong.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs D has said, but for the reasons  explained  above
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6899206