K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained about the amount of compensation HFC Bank  Limited (HFC) 
has offered her in relation to the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) on her 
credit card.
background
Miss Ws complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy sold alongside  a credit card. The 
credit card was taken out in March 2000.  
Miss W complained to HFC that the PPI had been mis-sold. In May 2018, HFC upheld 
Miss Ws complaint and sent her an offer of £85.82 (after tax). 
Miss W wasnt happy with the offer and brought the complaint to our service. 
She considered that HFCs offer was low, and she was unsure as to how HFC had 
calculated her compensation, especially around the assumptions that HFC explained it had 
used. Miss W also provided her own calculations as to what she thought she was owed.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and thought HFCs offer was fair and that it didnt 
need to do anything further.
Miss W didnt agree  with the adjudicator. As the matter  hasnt been resolved its been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HFC agrees  the PPI was mis-sold. And its offered to put Miss W in the position  shed  now 
be in if she hadnt  had PPI. So I need  to consider whether or not HFC has offered fair 
compensation, in line with our approach, when we find that a PPI policy  has been mis-
sold.
The financial  regulator   the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) through its handbook, sets 
out how businesses  should handle complaints about  PPI. And this includes how businesses 
should go about compensating consumers if a PPI policy has been mis-sold. A copy is 
available online.  The relevant section  is DISP App 3: Handling Payment Protection 
Insurance complaints. 
Broadly speaking, when  I decide, or a business  agrees,  that a PPI policy  has been mis-sold, 
Id expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would have been in had they 
not taken out the PPI policy, as far as is possible. 
With a PPI policy sold alongside a credit card this typically  means a refund of all the PPI 
premiums charged,  the credit card interest charged because  of the PPI, any fees/charges 
directly caused by the PPI policy and 8% simple  interest  to compensate  the consumers 
for the time theyve been without the money.
Ive had a look at HFCs calculation  of Miss Ws PPI refund. And it seems in line with what  Id 
expect to see. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN63592452HFC doesnt  have Miss Ws actual statements, but importantly it has records  that show how 
much PPI was charged to Miss Ws account,  monthly, while the policy was in place.  So it 
can fairly accurately  work out what Miss W was charged for PPI and what it owes  her in 
compensation. 
Miss W had PPI on her account from March  2000.  HFC has explained that the records  show 
that the first PPI appears to have been  charged  in September  2000.  But to ensure that 
Miss W hasnt lost out, HFC has made  some assumptions that PPI was charged  from 
March 2000 when it knows Miss Ws account opened,  up until September  2000 when its 
records definitively show PPI was charged. 
All things  considered I think that is a fair assumption  for HFC to make and ensures Miss W 
hasnt lost out as it is just as likely  that Miss W wasnt charged a premium until September 
2000.
So HFC has refunded £51.37 for the premiums that Miss W was charged. And this amount 
includes the assumed  period of March  2000 up until September  2000.
Because HFC knows how much  PPI was charged, it knows  the effect the PPI caused on 
Miss Ws account in terms of how much credit  card interest those PPI premiums caused. So 
it has given that back also. 
HFC has worked out that the PPI caused Miss W £4.81 in credit card interest.  
Having looked  at the amount HFC has worked  out for the credit card interest  that the PPI 
caused, it seems right.  Miss W didnt use her account too much  and her account wasnt at its 
limit with the balance often being  cleared. This broadly means that Miss W wouldnt have 
been charged too much in terms of premiums  and credit card interest. 
And finally, HFC has given Miss W some  money back   as additional compensation for being 
out of pocket on the premiums she was charged  and the credit card interest.  And this is set 
at 8% simple interest. This additional  compensation is only for the time that Miss W was out 
of pocket. So HFC in re-working  what Miss Ws account would have looked like without PPI, 
removes the PPI that it knows was charged  and the credit card interest  that it knows  was 
charged. And if it meant  Miss Ws account  would have gone  into credit at any point  then 
Miss W was out of pocket  by that amount  and so gets compensated for this.   
HFC has worked out that it owed Miss W £37.05 as compensation for being out of pocket, 
and this amount  was taxable at 20%. So after tax, Miss W was owed £29.64.
I appreciate Miss W has provided her own calculation as to what  she thinks she was owed. I 
can understand why she has done this given HFCs  offer letter.  But Miss W initially  made 
some assumptions of her own about what she was charged for PPI and this was for a longer 
period. I think this arose from the misunderstanding  of what  HFC were  actually assuming 
and why. HFCs assumptions  were  only for the period March  2000 up until September 2000  
 not longer. And it made these assumptions  to ensure Miss W hadnt lost out as I discussed  
earlier. 
Miss W in her calculation also thought she was charged a lot more in credit  card interest 
than she actually was. But HFC know how much Miss W was charged for PPI each month 
and therefore  could work out what credit card interest the PPI caused. And as I explained 
Ref: DRN63592453earlier, Miss W didnt  run her account at its limit and often cleared her balance.  So this 
meant that the PPI didnt attract as much  in credit card interest.  When  the balance is 
cleared, the PPI would  have been paid off and therefore wouldnt attract  any ongoing interest  
as Miss W assumes in her calculation.   
Overall, having looked  at HFCs offer of compensation, Im satisfied that it places Miss W in 
the position she would be in, as far as is possible , had she not taken out PPI. And I think the 
offer that has been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint and is in line with our guide 
lines. So I wont be telling HFC to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think HFC Bank  Limited offer is fair. 
I am unsure whether  Miss W has been  paid the compensation. If it hasnt been paid, 
HFC Bank Limited should recalculate  it to make sure that its offer of compensation is 
brought up to date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6359245