K821x#15complaint
Mr V has complained about Legal  and General Assurance Society  Limited. He says that it 
made errors in relation  to pension contributions he made to his self-investment personal 
pension (SIPP) in 2014. Hes also unhappy  about delays in transferring his pension in 2019.
background
The parties will be familiar  with the background to this complaint, but I will summarise it 
below.
In late 2018 Mr V became aware  that two pension  contributions he had made in 2014  may 
not have attracted tax relief as they should have  done.
Mr V insisted that the contributions did meet HMRC  requirements and so should have 
attracted tax relief.
Ultimately, Legal and General agreed that both contributions could remain  in the SIPP.  It 
seems that tax relief  had been applied to the first contribution (from March 2014) but not to 
the second (from November 2014).  Legal and General said it wasnt responsible for the 
missing tax relief on the November contribution  as it had been made by Mr Vs employer 
without notice.
Mr V made a separate complaint to his former  employer which was upheld,  and it paid 
redress to Mr V.
Legal and General offered  Mr V £600  for the distress and inconvenience  it had caused over 
the period of months it took to resolve  the issues.
Mr V didnt accept. He said that the transfer  of his SIPP to another  provider had been 
delayed by these  issues and the time taken to investigate. And so, he was unable to take 
benefits from his pension as soon as he wished and lost the opportunity to make pension  
and ISA contributions  before the end of the 2018/19  tax year.
The complaint was referred  to this service where  it was considered  by an investigator. He 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. In summary, he said that Mr V hadnt lost out on 
tax relief for the March 2014  contribution  and any losses from the November 2014  
contribution were the responsibility of his employer, and not the business.
About the delay,  the investigator  said that the business was sent transfer paperwork with a 
letter dated  3 March 2019. It could  only start the transfer process when  it had these papers. 
There was a little over a month to complete the process before the end of the tax year. He 
wasnt satisfied that it had delayed the transfer and transfers like these can take up to six 
months. A partial transfer was offered,  and Mr V wasnt prevented from making  a pension 
contribution before the end of the tax year. He had made a pension contribution in February 
2019.
The investigator accepted that there  had been delay in the investigation, but he felt the offer 
of £600 was fair.
Mr V didnt agree. As no agreement was reached  the case  has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN60842372I considered the complaint and made a provisional  decision. I said that I intended to uphold  
this complaint in part. My reasons were  as follows: 
I agree  with the investigator that the offer of £600 is fair in relation to distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in resolving the issues surrounding the pension 
contributions in question.
I agree  that the failure to secure  tax relief on the November 2014 contribution wasnt  
primarily Legal and Generals  responsibility.  And Mr V has already  been compensated for 
the losses arising out of that by another party.
I think Legal and General  could have been clearer in explaining the difficulties surrounding 
the contributions  and resolved the position  more  quickly. My understanding  is that the March 
2014 contribution  didnt  meet its requirements  rather than falling foul of any HMRC 
requirement. It seems that this was resolved internally by relatively simple procedures  once 
the issues were escalated to a person  with the requisite knowledge. I think this could have  
been achieved  more quickly and the situation  would, understandably,  cause Mr V a lot of 
frustration. This would have been exacerbated by the fact that he had expertise in these 
matters and wasnt, so far as I can see, given a clear  explanation of the problem. However,  I 
think the offer of £600 is a fair offer.
Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator in relation to the delay in transfer.  I 
think that Legal and General did cause delay. Its been unable to provide a clear  timeline  and 
seems to have accepted  that matters could  have been dealt with more quickly.
Mr V says that if the transfer  had been  completed  sooner, he would have taken tax free cash  
and then used  that cash to make  an ISA contribution and an additional pension  contribution.  
He says any pension  contribution would  have attracted higher rate tax relief as he was a 
higher rate tax payer during that year, and he wouldnt  be afterwards.
Ive explained  that Im not satisfied that Mr V has lost out by being unable  to make an ISA 
contribution during that financial year. He has not used  his ISA allowance in other years and 
so he is still able to have the benefit of that allowance.
And in relation to the lost opportunity to make a pension contribution,  Im not satisfied that in 
the absence of any delay by Legal  and General, the transfer would have been completed in 
time to allow  a further contribution to be made  during  2018/19. It received the transfer 
paperwork on 8 March  2018. Im not aware that it was told there was any particular urgency. 
In effect, there were around  four weeks for the transfer to be completed,  for Mr V to take his 
tax-free cash from the receiving pension, and to complete the process of making a further 
pension contribution. I dont think all these three steps were likely to have been completed 
within four weeks, especially when this would have  been the busiest time of year for pension 
administrators.
So, I dont think the delay in transfer  by the business caused Mr V to miss out on making  any 
additional pension  contribution within that tax year.
Even if it had, to make an award for any loss I would need  to be satisfied  that Mr V had no 
other means  of making the intended contribution from other  resources, even if only on a 
temporary basis until the tax-free cash was secured.
Ref: DRN60842373And if I did agree with Mr V, I dont think he would  have lost out entirely on the tax relief as 
he seems to suggest. Thats because any loss of tax relief would have to be offset by the 
fact that if the tax-free cash was used to make a further contribution, the funds would have 
been returned to the pension and then potentially  become taxable  on any later withdrawal 
(although, I accept, potentially at a lower rate).
Legal and General has raised the issue of HMRC rules on the recycling of tax-free  cash. I 
dont agree that these rules would have  prevented  Mr V from doing what  he proposed, as 
these rules dont prohibit  recycling, although  they would prevent contributions of more  than 
30 per cent of the tax-free cash without tax penalties.
However, I said that I was minded to uphold  the complaint on the basis  that there had been 
a delay in transfer. The transfer  was initiated  on 8 March  2019 and completed on 22 July 
2019. Thats  a period  of 136 days.  I think  a reasonable period for a transfer  like this would be 
around 4 weeks or 28 days. The business  has pointed to delays in the sale of assets  which it 
blames on the investment manager  so it may be that the transfer may have been delayed 
beyond this by a week or two. And then Mr V would have need to arrange  the withdrawal of 
tax-free cash.
Overall, I think Mr V could reasonably have expected to be in receipt of his tax-free cash  
within 8 weeks (56 days) of 8 March  2018.  
I think a fair resolution would be for the business to compensate for the loss of use of funds 
(tax free cash) over a period of 80 days.  This equates to an additional £456 (£26,000 x 8% x 
80/365 rounded up to the nearest one pound).
This sum is in addition  to the £600  already offered.
Mr V didnt agree. He said the transfer was in-specie and didnt involve the sale of assets.  It 
could have been completed  more  quickly than I said.  He indicated that it would be fair if 
Legal and General paid interest over an additional  28 days.
Legal and General accepted the provisional conclusions but when asked, refused to offer 
any additional payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mr V has said, but Im not minded to change my provisional conclusions  and I 
confirm them  here. I appreciate that the transfer  could have been completed  more quickly  
but overall, Im satisfied  that the time period Ive suggested is reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN60842374my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Legal  and General for the reasons set out above.  Legal and 
General must pay Mr V £1056.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6084237