K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs E say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think HSBC made it clear that Mr and Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they may not remember  this.
I say this because  although Mr and Mrs E have said they have never knowingly 
taken out PPI for any product/service, Ive seen a copy of a Mortgage Repayment 
Protector Declaration Transfer. This document has been signed by either  Mr or 
Mrs E  its not a clear signature. Ive also seen a copy  of a letter dated 27 February  
2002 which confirms  the recommendations made by HSBC  including PPI.
Although Mr and Mrs E have said that PPI wasnt discussed and they werent aware  
that it had been applied,  the evidence from the sale suggests that a discussion did 
take place about PPI.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs E so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, 
I think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  
Although theres  a suggestion that details of an income protection policy were 
recorded at the time of sale, Ive not asked for further evidence  for the reasons 
outlined towards  the end of my decision. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs E paid on their PPI  and 
whether HSBC treated them unfairly. 
HSBC has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Es PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how HSBC has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Es commission 
was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats  the case, I dont think  it needed to tell 
them about  the commission  so I dont  think HSBC treated them  unfairly. This 
means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs E back any of the commission  they paid for 
the PPI. It also seems that Mr and Mrs E were never actually charged for PPI.  
Ref: DRN66866282Ive thought about everything else Mr and Mrs E have said - including  what  theyve said 
about their existing means of making  their repayments meaning that they didnt  need  PPI 
and Ive also noted that the first 6 months  PPI premiums were free and they were never 
charged for PPI after that. So, although  I dont  think that this policy  was mis-sold, even if I 
was to have come to a different outcome,  I wouldnt be recommending  that the business  do 
anything as I dont  think that Mr and Mrs E have lost out. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6686628