K822xcomplaint
Mr E has complained about the way esure Insurance  Limited dealt with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.  Mr E is being  represented by Mr S. 
background 
Mr E was involved  in an incident  in September  2018  and he reported it to his insurer,  esure 
on the same  day. He also appointed Mr S to deal with the matter on his behalf. 
Mr S complained that esure had caused delay in arranging for Mr Es car to be moved  to a 
garage of their choice.  An agent  had incorrectly said the car was a total loss before it had 
been inspected. When Mr Es car was correctly  declared a total loss in October 2018, Mr S 
said the market  value esure paid was too low. Mr S said esure had moved  Mr Es car from 
the garage to a location with free storage - but shouldnt have as Mr E hadnt accepted the 
total loss settlement, so it was still his property.  
esure moved  Mr Es car to a free storage  location after it paid the total loss settlement to 
Mr E in October  2018.  It said it wouldnt dispose of Mr Es car until it had an outcome from 
us. 
In December 2018 Mr S arranged  for Mr Es car to be moved  from the free storage location 
back to the chosen garage - where  it incurred ongoing storage costs  until February 2019 
when Mr E salvaged the car. Mr S said when  he collected it from the free storage location  in 
December 2018,  further damage had been  caused.  Mr S said esure had no right to move it. 
Mr S wanted  esure to inspect Mr Es car. Mr S said that Mr E was denied  the option  to 
salvage the car himself when esure moved it to free storage. He thought the salvage 
deduction esure quoted  wasnt reasonable. Mr S said the free storage company caused  
further damage to his car. He said this meant  the salvage value Mr E could  get was less. 
Mr S said that Mr E had been without the use of a car for over 40 days from the date the 
incident happened to the date it was declared a total loss  and longer than that because he 
couldnt buy a similar replacement car for the sum esure had settled the claim for.
Mr S wanted  esure to compensate  Mr E for loss of use, storage costs,  associated costs and 
distress and inconvenience caused.
esure did the following:
paid Mr E £200 compensation for the upset  its delay  caused him. It apologised for its 
agent incorrectly confirming the total loss of his car, as this information related  to the 
third partys car. 
waived its salvage fee and waived  the additional excess  Mr E would  have otherwise 
paid for using a non approved repairer.  
offered to deliver Mr Es car to him after it moved it to free storage  or pay £150 to 
Mr S to collect  it after it had declared  it a total loss. Mr S collected it and esure  paid 
him £150. 
esure said it wouldnt pay ongoing storage costs as it had moved Mr Es car to a free safe 
storage place. This didnt affect Mr Es right to complain or bring his complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN60431612It didnt agree to inspect  Mr Es car after Mr S collected it from the free storage company. It 
had already paid a total loss sum for the car which was the most it would pay under the 
policy.
Mr S brought Mr Es complaint to us. Mr S told us that in February  2019  Mr E salvaged  his 
car for £370. 
Mr S provided a letter from a dealership garage which gave a retail valuation  for Mr Es car. 
This was considerably  higher than the total loss settlement esure had paid. 
Our investigator checked the valuation against the main motor  trade  guides. He thought  
esures valuation  was too low against  the average  of the four main  guides. Although  Mr S 
said Mr Es car was rare, the investigator followed  our long standing  approach and thought it 
was reasonable  for esure to rely on the trade guides. All four guides were able to provide a 
valuation for the specific make and model of Mr Es car. 
The average of the valuations  came  to £356.50 more than the settlement esure paid.  So the 
investigator thought  esure should pay the difference with interest. 
He thought esure had dealt with the remainder of Mr Es complaints reasonably.  
esure accepted the investigators  findings.  Mr S didnt agree. So the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that esure caused some delay in arranging collection of Mr Es car from the place it 
was recovered  to immediately after the incident   to the chosen garage.  
When things go wrong,  we look at the impact on the customer  and what  a business  did to 
put things right. The incident happened  on 14 September 2018. On 21 September  2018  
Mr S attempted to collect Mr Es car from where it was being stored but the storage company 
needed its storage  costs  to be paid. 
On 27 September  2018 Mr E told esure he was on holiday abroad for a month, returning on 
19 October 2018. So I think Mr E was out of the country from around 21 September  2018   a 
week after the incident happened. This means  that the impact of the delay was reduced.  And 
I think its reasonable to expect a degree  of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. 
Mr S told us that Mr E used his wifes car while he was without a car. Both Mr and Mrs E are 
retired. 
Mr Es car was moved to his preferred garage on 24 October 2018. esure confirmed a total 
loss settlement of £7,457 after deducting an excess of £450 on 29 October 2018. It sent a 
cheque to Mr E within the following five working days. 
In November 2018 esure sent Mr E a cheque for £200 to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience  its delay caused  him. It told Mr S that cashing the cheques wouldnt 
affect Mr Es right to pursue his complaint  and bring  his complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN60431613Taking into account all of the above, I think esures compensation for the delay it caused 
was fair and in line with awards we give for similar circumstances.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
esure says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value. It defines this as 
follows:
The market value  is the amount you could reasonably  have expected to sell your 
vehicle for on the open market immediately before your accident  or loss. Our 
assessment of the value is based  on vehicles of the same make  and model and of a 
similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based  
on research from motor  trade guides  including: Glasss,  Parkers and CAP. This may 
not be the price  you paid when you purchased the car.
Mr S provided a retail  valuation from a dealership garage for Mr Es car for £10,449.  
However, the main  motor  trade guides were able to provide valuations for a car similar to 
Mr Es. We find the guides  more  reliable as they are based on likely selling prices for a car of 
the same  make,  model, specification, mileage and condition. 
These valuations ranged from £7,681 to £8,908. esures valuation was £7,907 before 
deducting the excess. This is lower than the average of the guides. We generally think  that 
its reasonable for an insurer to pay within the range of the guides. The difference  in the 
motor trade  guides  range  is around  £1,200.  The retail valuation  provided by Mr S is over 
£1,500 more than the highest of the guides.  So in this case,  I think  esure  should  increase the 
total loss settlement by £356.50  to bring  the valuation  up to the average of all the guides. 
And I think esure should pay interest  on the difference from the date of the claim to the date 
it pays Mr E at a rate of 8% simple  interest.  esure accepts this. 
Our investigator asked  Mr S to provide photos of the further damage he says the free 
storage company caused to Mr Es car. But Mr S said he didnt take any photos.  He believes 
this is something esure should have done.  
With the difference Ive decided on, esure  will have paid Mr E £8,263.50 for his car. Where 
an insurer settles a claim  as a total loss, its entitled to deduct a salvage fee from the 
settlement if a customer keeps his car. 
Insurers have commercial  agreements  with salvage companies at favourable rates. So the 
salvage fee it receives can be higher  than a customer  may gain. In this case, esure waived 
the salvage deduction it would otherwise  had been reasonably entitled to take from the 
settlement sum. Mr E received a salvage fee of £370 when he disposed of his car in 
February 2019. 
esures policy says:
For loss or damage to your car other  than by fire, lightning, explosion,  theft or 
attempted theft,  we will:
 pay to have  the damage repaired
 replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost-effective than repairing it; or
 settle your claim by a monetary payment.
We will decide which of these methods we will use to settle your claim.
Ref: DRN60431614If we settle a claim under this section as a total loss, the lost or damaged  car 
becomes our property.
esure offered to deliver  the car back to Mr E from the free storage location - or pay £150 
toward the costs  for Mr S to collect it. Ive considered the actions of both parties - whether 
these were reasonable and with a view to mitigating their losses.  
I dont think esures decision to move Mr Es car to a place  of free storage was 
unreasonable, once it had paid Mr E a total loss settlement for his car. The car was 
categorised as S meaning it had structural damage.  It said the car wouldnt be disposed  of 
while kept in free storage  until a decision was made  by us.
So I dont  think esure should pay the storage costs incurred  when Mr S chose to move  
Mr Es car from the free storage company back to the garage.  It made it clear to Mr S that it 
wouldnt do so in November 2018.  It said there was no reason to pay for storage when it was 
at a place with free storage costs. I agree.
The most esure was to pay in the event  of a claim was the market  value of the car. I think  
aside from increasing  the market value settlement  esure has dealt with Mr Es complaint in 
a reasonable way.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure  Insurance  Limited to 
do the following:
pay a further £356.50  for the market  value of Mr Es car. 
pay interest on this sum from the date of the claim to the date esure pays Mr E at a 
rate of 8% simple interest a year.
esure Insurance Limited  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr E accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If esure  Insurance  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr E how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr E a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.  
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6043161