K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  sold by Lloyds Bank 
plc, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester. Mr and Mrs R say this cover was mis-
sold to them.
For consistency Ill refer to Lloyds in my decision.
Background
These events took place  a long time ago and relate to three MPPI policies that were sold 
alongside three different mortgage borrowing events. It seems that having taken out an 
original mortgage  many years ago, Mr and Mrs R took out quite a number  of further  
advances also over many years. But its the mortgage advances in August  2002, January 
2003 and July 2003 that appear to have had MPPI attached.
One of our adjudicators looked  into this case some time ago and said the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Rs assertion  is that they were led to believe that taking out MPPI was 
compulsory with their mortgage borrowing. Nevertheless, these events are obviously from a 
while ago now, so its possible  that their recollections are distorted by the passage  of time.
I say this because  Ive carefully looked  at all the information we have and Im afraid that in 
my view the evidence in this case points very strongly against how Mr and Mrs R remember 
things. We know, for example, that Mr and Mrs R had for some time held Lloyds mortgage(s) 
without any MPPI. I think its therefore  fair to say that because of this, they must have known 
that getting a mortgage approved wasnt dependent  on them  also agreeing  to have MPPI.
We also know that at the time, the process  to get MPPI involved not just agreeing to it at the 
point of the mortgage application, but a further step was necessary. This involved filling out a 
specific and separate  MPPI application form. Mr and Mrs R did this on each of the three 
occasions outlined  above. They also specifically chose for the cover to be allocated to Mr R, 
rather than Mrs R, or indeed both applicants. This conflicts with what  seems  to be a 
supporting aspect to their complaint, which  is that they always tended  to ask for both to be 
covered on these types of insurance policies  throughout their lives. It also suggests to me 
that Mr and Mrs R gave  some thought as to whether and how they wanted the relevant 
MPPIs set up on each occasion.  
These things are each  persuasive examples of Mr and Mrs R agreeing  to the MPPI policies 
on each occasion  and also knowing they had a choice of whether or not to do so. 
Ref: DRN60025602But the most compelling evidence relates to a number of letters  Ive seen, all written by Mr 
R, to Lloyds. In these I can see Mr R appears  to be a diligent consumer with good oversight 
of his and Mrs Rs financial  situation.  He wrote to Lloyds,  for example, most notably in 
August 2002 and again September 2006; each was about the MPPI  cover.  The letters  
comprehensively show, in my view, a strong  awareness of the cover; that the cover  isnt 
thought by Mr and Mrs R to be compulsory and; that it can be cancelled at any time. 
In the 2002 letter Mr R enquired about  including previously unprotected mortgage borrowing 
under the gambit of the MPPI  hed later taken out. The second concerned cancellation, 
saying this is to inform  you that after careful  consideration, I will be cancelling  the [MPPI] 
policy.
So I think Mr and Mrs R collectively engaged  in all three  sales. I think they considered their 
options in doing so and tailored the cover to suit their circumstances of the time.  The 
subsequent evidence is strong  that they managed  the MPPI cover  by corresponding a 
number of times with Lloyds and all this represents  solid evidence that Lloyds correctly 
obtained the full and proper consent of Mr and Mrs R before  adding the three  MPPI  policies.
Turning to suitability,  Lloyds had a duty to ensure the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs R. I 
think it was. Mr R was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the major exclusions 
we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the MPPI appears affordable on each  
occasion, given  the protection the policies offered. Mr R didnt have  robust sickness 
protection provided through his job, so I think the cover was suitable  for him in the context of 
the mortgage(s)  being secured against  his and Mrs Rs home; the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have  been serious. In the event of a successful 
claim, the MPPI would have paid out a monthly  sum for up to 12 months.
Lloyds also had to provide  information that was clear, fair and not misleading.  I obviously  
cant confirm what would  have been  said to Mr and Mrs R and its possible Lloyds could 
have done a better job in explaining things. But from what  Ive seen, I think  the disclosure of 
information looks quite  comprehensive on each of the three occasions they were sold MPPI. 
Its clear they discussed the applications with a mortgage adviser each  time and the records 
show they probably assessed Mr and Mrs Rs overall financial situation with them. 
I also think its been demonstrated that Mr and Mrs R would have known the costs  of the 
MPPI on all three occasions. I therefore think they had enough information on which  to make 
an informed choice about what they wanted to do.
To uphold  this case, Id need  to discount the strong  and comprehensive evidence which 
points to Mr and Mrs R engaging in all these sales. Id also need  to think they were  told 
something that was contrary to the selling rules  on three separate  occasions, which I think  is 
unlikely. 
Im sorry  to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs R but I dont think  any of the policies were mis-
sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. And I dont direct  
Lloyds Bank  plc to do anything  to put matters  right.   
Ref: DRN60025603Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6002560