K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mr P complain  about the way Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) handled 
their mortgage application.  They declined the application after taking a payment from Mr B, 
which was intended  to be a deposit.
background
In August  2017,  Mr B completed  a transfer of mortgaged  property  application with Halifax.  
He wanted to remove an existing party from the mortgage, and add his nephew, Mr P on. 
Following a conversation  with an adviser  at Halifax, Mr B paid £7,000 towards  the mortgage 
on the assumption this would  help the chances  of the application being successful.
Halifax declined the application, as they didnt think the transfer  was affordable.  Mr B said he 
asked how much more he would need to pay as a deposit to make it affordable, but the 
adviser wouldnt give him a figure. Mr B complained about this, and said he could have sold 
his house abroad  to pay more as a deposit if he knew how much he needed to pay.
Halifax upheld the complaint. They refunded the £7,000 payment Mr B had made and 
adjusted the mortgage account.  They also paid 8% interest on this amount and £300  to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the adviser. They  apologised if Mr Bs 
expectations had been raised  by what the adviser had said.
Mr B and Mr P brought their complaint to our service as they wanted  the application to be 
approved. Since the application, Mr B has unfortunately become unwell. Hes had brain 
surgery and has since been  diagnosed  with epilepsy,  affecting his ability to work. Our 
investigator looked into things and agreed that the bank could have handled things better. 
However, Mr Bs circumstances have changed considerably since  the application was made, 
so it wouldnt be fair to ask Halifax to re-consider the application now that hes unable to 
work - as this would place him in a worse position. 
Mr B disagreed, so the complaints been  passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There arent any records to confirm what was discussed during the appointment between 
Mr B and Halifax. However, on balance Im persuaded  its likely Mr B believed making a 
payment to the mortgage of £7,000 would help the application, as I find it unlikely he would 
have made  the payment otherwise.
The application was declined because Halifax didnt consider the mortgage would be 
affordable for Mr B and Mr P if the other party was removed.  Mr Bs unhappy as he said he 
could have paid more towards the mortgage in order to reduce the balance and make the 
mortgage affordable,  but the adviser at Halifax wouldnt tell him how much he would need to 
pay. I understand Mr Bs frustrations, especially given how desperately  he wanted this 
application to be approved. As the Halifax adviser  was giving advice to Mr B about his 
application, I would have expected them  to have had a conversation about what he and Mr P 
could afford,  and any shortfall there may have  been. This way Mr B and Mr P could have 
considered their options and adjusted the application accordingly.
Ref: DRN67949742Halifax have acknowledged things havent happened as they should  have  done,  and have  
considered the distress  and inconvenience their adviser may have caused, but havent 
offered to re-consider Mr B and Mr Ps application.  When we decide  a business has done 
something wrong, under normal circumstances wed expect the business to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been  in, had things gone how they should  
have done. Its not clear  whether the mortgage  would have been approved even if Mr B had 
put more money  in. If it would, ordinarily  the right outcome would be to require Halifax  to 
grant the application   subject to that money  being  paid. However, thats not straightforward 
here.
Mr Bs circumstances have changed  considerably since the application took place, and hes 
no longer able to work. So it wouldnt be right to ask Halifax  to re-consider the application  as 
it was in August  2017, as thats no longer  a true picture of Mr Bs financial position. If they 
were to do that and the application  was approved,  its likely this would leave Mr B and Mr P 
worse off, as theyd be tied into a mortgage that they could  no longer afford. 
Mr B is undoubtedly in a difficult  situation.  I understand  the existing party on the mortgage is 
threatening to take the matter to court in order to remove himself, and the stress of this is 
exacerbating Mr Bs health condition. So I would encourage Mr B to seek independent  
advice about his situation, as I note he may have some other options as a result of his 
existing property abroad. 
Its not for me to comment on Mr Bs wider  situation or advise him about what  to do. All I can 
do is consider whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint, which is 
about the mortgage application. If the application  were to be approved  now, it would mean  
Mr B and Mr P would be liable for a mortgage  they cant afford, especially now Mr Bs 
circumstances have  changed. Instead, the previous mortgage remains  in place  with Mr B 
and the other party, but not Mr P, liable to make  the payments. Neither  outcome is ideal.
Taking that into account and weighing up the alternatives, Im not satisfied it would be fair to 
instruct Halifax to grant Mr B and Mr Ps application.  On balance, I think doing so would 
leave both Mr B and Mr P worse off in relation to the mortgage. Theres  nothing  to stop Mr B 
and Mr P applying again  now based on their current circumstances, but given the last 
application was declined because of affordability, its unlikely a new application  would be 
approved with a reduced income.
Halifax have put Mr B and Mr P back in the position  they would have been in, had the 
application not taken place, and theyve also compensated  Mr B for the distress  and 
inconvenience theyve  caused him. Considering  everything, whilst I think Halifax  could have 
handled Mr B and Mr Ps application better, I dont think  it would be fair, in the particular 
circumstances of this unfortunate case,  to say they need to do anything more  than theyve  
already done.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Ref: DRN67949743Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6794974