K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited  declined a claim they made on their 
home contents insurance policy.  
Mr B has dealt  with the complaint on behalf of them both. 
background
In March 2018 while Mr and Mrs B were  on an extended break in Spain there was an escape 
of water at their UK property causing  damage to several rooms  the lounge,  two bedrooms,  
hall and landing. So they made  a claim to Ageas, on their RIAS  household insurance policy, 
which provides cover  for both buildings and contents. The buildings element was accepted 
and Mr B received  a cash settlement  to cover the cost of repairs.  Plus a contribution to the 
accommodation costs  for staying away from the property. But for the contents element 
Ageas asked Mr B to provide evidence for the damaged items in line with the policy terms. 
Mr B provided a costed  list of replacement items, totalling  over £31,000, believing  this is all 
he was required to do. Hes unable to provide receipts or other proofs  of purchase for the 
damaged items due to their age. But he said they were high quality items purchased  from 
good stores,  so have lasted well. Theres no record of what was actually within  the property 
when the flood occurred, or which of those items were damaged  beyond  repair. As Mr B was 
abroad when the flood  was discovered,  his son took initial steps  to move items to drier areas  
within the property.  But no photographs were taken showing the state  of the property when 
the flood was discovered, or of the damaged items.  
The couple  returned from Spain on 11 March 2018 and the following  day Mr B spoke to 
Ageass agent  P to arrange a visit to inspect the damage. During  this call Mr B says he was 
given consent  to clear  the property to enable the drying-out process to begin.  
Ps representative visited the property a couple of days later and took photographs to 
compile a scheme  of works for the repairs. He provisioned the contents claim at around 
£10,000 but was unable  to assess it properly, as not only had the property been stripped,  
everything had been  disposed of in a skip. Mr B says he was advised  to do this when the 
appointment was arranged.  And he said the agent  had parked next to the skip so had the 
opportunity to inspect  or photograph the contents.  Ageas  said it was unable  to substantiate 
Mr Bs loss. 
When Mr B complained, Ageas appointed another firm of loss adjustors L to try and verify 
the contents claim, but it found the claim remained unsubstantiated. So Ageas declined  the 
claim as it had no opportunity to assess the items being claimed for to see if any could be 
restored or repaired  rather than replaced.  Although  it agreed  to cover the costs of restoring 
some wooden items (a card table, coat rack and dining table). Mr B said he was acting on 
the advice of Ageass agent  and so it should settle  the claim in full. 
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. The first in April 2019 was because  
Id come to a different outcome to our investigator. I thought it was unfair  of Ageas to decline 
the contents claim in full, given it had settled the buildings  claim, and didnt dispute  thered 
been an escape of water. I had proposed a way to settle the complaint, which both Mr B and 
Ageas disagreed with. 
In view of this I issued  a second provisional decision in July 2019, taking into consideration 
the comments from both parties. Im now in a position to issue my final decision.  Ive 
Ref: DRN67141312summarised and incorporated  extracts of the provisional decisions which now form part of 
this final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it, 
and Ive decided  how Ageas should  settle  the claim. 
In my provisional decisions I explained  the basis upon which  I was upholding the complaint. I 
said in summary theres no dispute  the escape  of water took place, and Ageas accepted  and 
settled the buildings claim. I also said Mr Bs policy has contents cover  up to £50,000  and his 
claim of £31,000 was within this limit. The policy  allows for new for old replacement (apart  
from clothing or soft furnishings more than three years old), and doesnt deduct for 
depreciation. So I thought  it wasnt fair or reasonable of Ageas to decline the claim in full.
Ageas relied  on the policy terms which require the policy holder to provide evidence to prove  
their claim as follows: When making a claim well need a valuation  of the relevant item and 
evidence that you own it. This was reiterated in a letter sent to Mr B when he made  the 
claim, which I have no reason to think wasnt waiting for his return. Under  the heading What 
can I expect it said After reporting your claim our supplier will contact you to arrange a 
convenient time to inspect  your damaged property.  So in my provisional decision I agreed 
Mr B ought  reasonably  to have realised hed be required to provide evidence of his loss. And 
he knew he didnt have  any proofs of purchase for his furniture due to its age. So Id at least 
have expected him to photograph the items  to show what  had been damaged,  to enable an 
assessment of their value.  The policy terms also allow Ageas, not the policyholder, to decide  
whether repair, restoration or replacement is appropriate. So, even with evidence, not 
everything Mr B was claiming for would  necessarily be replaced. This is explained in the 
same letter, under What  will happen  after the initial visit? it said Mr B would contacted once  
the items  have been inspected to confirm  whether it is repairable  / restorable or needs to be 
replaced. So I thought  Mr B should  have  realised even if items were removed from the 
property so the drying out process could commence, they shouldnt be taken  away or 
destroyed. 
But I also considered  whether  Mr B had been  given clear and consistent information by 
Ageas and its agents. Id listened to the call when Mr B reported his claim to Ageas and was 
satisfied he wasnt given  the impression he should  take responsibility for clearing the 
property, hiring dehumidifiers or a skip. He was only told to wait for P to make  contact.  
Mr Bs son had moved undamaged furniture to the conservatory to protect  it, and its 
reasonable to think everything else may have  needed to come out of the affected rooms  to 
enable the wet carpets to be lifted. But given there were only three days between Mr B 
returning home on 11 March and Ps agents  visit on 14 March, Id have expected at least 
the large furniture  items to have been left outside  the property for inspection  rather  than 
thrown in a skip. 
Ageas doesnt  have  a record of the call between Mr B and Ps agent on 12 March, as it can 
only access calls on its own telephony system. So I cant know  for sure what  was said.  But 
Ps agent specifically  denies advising Mr B to remove  or destroy  anything. P says it would 
have been counterproductive to have  told Mr B to do that when the assessment visit had 
been arranged  for two days time.  But this isnt totally consistent with the purpose of Ps visit, 
which it transpired was only to assess the extent  of the damage and compile a scheme of 
works for the buildings repairs. It wasnt intended  to assess the contents claim. If Mr B had 
asked about removing items from the property I would have expected  Ps agent  to have 
Ref: DRN67141313agreed Mr B could do so, only to facilitate the drying out process.  I dont think  its likely Ps 
agent gave Mr B permission to dispose  of things  in a skip. Particularly if he knew he wouldnt 
be assessing the contents claim. But Im not sure it was made  clear  to Mr B Ps visit was 
only to assess the buildings  claim,  and that the contents element would be assessed 
separately. 
Mr Bs son is in the building trade and could carry out the repairs.  So once P had assessed 
the buildings  claim,  Mr B wanted a cash settlement, based on what  Ageass contractors 
would charge for the same  work.  But having settled the buildings  element, it appears  Ageas 
made no arrangements to assess the contents  element of the claim. Its not been possible to 
ascertain exactly was in the skip as theres  no record.  Ps agent had noticed the skip, which 
he thought was full of carpet. Given the quality of the carpet and the standard of the 
undamaged rooms Ps agent told Ageas to expect a contents claim of around £10,000. He 
thought some wooden furniture  items may be restored rather  than replaced  and noted 
damage to two beds,  which he described as good  quality.  He was told to note the damaged  
contents in his report, as a contents  assessor  may need to be appointed. 
Mr B wasnt  told the contents claim hadnt been  accepted or assessed, so once Ps agent 
had visited, he says he didnt think he needed  to retain the damaged items any longer. I 
think it would  have  been prudent for Mr B to have  retained the items until the claim was 
settled, or a decision taken about  whether restoration or replacement  was required. Or at 
least ensured the damaged items  were  photographed and documented, given the lack of 
proofs of purchase. 
But Ageass  communication with Mr B hasnt been  consistent. While the policy  terms and its 
initial letter say the policyholder must provide evidence, in later communications  Mr B was 
simply told to provide a list of damaged  items. On 16 March  2018, two days after Ps visit, 
Ageas emailed Mr B to say in respect  of the contents damage,  we would  be grateful if you 
could provide a list of the damaged items together with estimates to replace those items on a 
like for like basis It goes  to on to say usually  two estimates are required and online 
estimates are acceptable. This email doesnt  mention the requirement  for the items to have 
first been  assessed,  or that a further  inspection visit may be necessary.  A note of 20 March  
2018 following  a call with Mr B says in regards to the contents, no one has been appointed 
for this, PH says he was told to make  a list of the contents, which  he will do. In an email of
8 April the Ageas claim handler says I shall wait for your list and bills for the B&B and other 
damaged items then we can look to progress the claim to full settlement. A note on 1 May 
2018 in respect  of a conversation between Ageas and P says P advised as they cash 
settled [for the building repairs]  they would not have appointed anyone  to deal with the 
contents and items  listed on the report.
I dont think its reasonable for Ageas to expect a policyholder to remember the specifics of 
the policy terms, if they arent reflected  in their communications. Returning to a flooded 
house must have  been a stressful situation. So while the policy  and the initial  claim letter told 
Mr B hed need to provide evidence to support  his claim, Ive seen nothing from the claim 
notes or communications which shows Ageas told Mr B it still expected him to provide 
evidence of his loss, not just provide a list of damaged items and quotes for replacements.
The initial list of items Mr B claimed for was extensive and included two sofas,  two drawer  
divan beds, fitted wardrobes, chests  of drawers, bedside cabinets, two televisions,  a fire and 
surround, plus carpets, lighting, soft furnishings,  clothing and shoes. He also wanted  to claim 
for flooring in other  areas such as the kitchen, outside the scope  of the claim. The carpet 
Ref: DRN67141314was available  for inspection in the skip, but the only items seen by P are the ones noted in 
the agents report. 
I dont think its fair to expect Ageas to settle the claim  based simply on a list of things Mr B 
would like to buy (or had bought)  to furnish  his property.  The second loss adjustor L was 
appointed in May,  weeks after the skip of damaged  items had been removed. So L asked 
for other evidence of proof of ownership, to support the claim. Such as interior  photographs 
of the property prior to the flood, for example from family celebrations.  Mr B only provided  a 
photograph and an upholstery receipt  relating  to a sofa. But as the photo shows the sofa 
situated in a previous property it doesnt really support this claim. I thought it was unusual  for 
people who have lived in a property for decades to have so few photographs showing the 
main habitable  rooms. Other than those taken  by Ps agent when he visited, the photos on 
the file show the rooms  once theyd been completely stripped, and through the repair 
process. Mr B later provided some internal photographs of the property. But the recent ones 
were of rooms not affected by the flood.  And the one photograph  showing the lounge  room 
was taken a decade ago, so isnt strong  evidence of the room at the time of the claim. 
Mr B followed Ageass instructions and provided quotes. But I cant  be sure these are an 
accurate reflection of replacements for the damaged items.  In fact Ive seen evidence which 
suggests they arent, for example the original list for the lounge  had two sofas, whereas the 
new quote included  an extra chair.  So I think the most reliable  evidence  upon which to 
assess the claim, are the notes made by Ps agent during his visit. Even though he was 
there to assess the buildings  repair,  I think  this is the only impartial evidence of the damaged 
items before they were  destroyed.
The policy terms say where we can offer repair or replacement  through our preferred 
supplier but we agree to pay a cash settlement, the payment will not exceed the amount we 
would have paid the preferred supplier.  In other words,  Ageas is only obliged  to pay Mr B 
the amount its preferred suppliers would charge for the claimed  items.  
In my second provisional decision  I thought  it would  be fair for Ageas to settle  the claim on 
the basis of what  its preferred suppliers would charge to replace  the items listed  in Ps 
report. Ageas responded to say in summary, that it had been denied the opportunity to 
assess whether any of the items  could have  been  repaired  or restored, which  its entitled to 
do under  the policy terms. And so it proposed a settlement based on the location  of the 
items within the property  and their proximity to the source of the escape of water. This 
accounts for the likelihood  that not everything  would  need to be replaced.  
Having thought carefully about this, I think its a fair way to settle  the claim. In my provisional  
decision I had included  the electrical items from the lounge noted in Ps report (television,  
DVD player  and BT box), but Ive excluded these  from the final decision as Ageas has 
shown me it advised  Mr B it would cover the cost of getting these items PAT (safety)  tested 
and theres no evidence he did. 
Mr B had no further comments to the second provisional decision, other than to reiterate he 
acted in good faith on the advice of Ps agent (to dispose of everything in the skip).   
So Ageas should settle Mr Bs claim as follows:
Lounge  two settees (Im going  to assume  one three-seater,  one two-seater),  carpet
Ageas should  settle the claim for these items at their limit for cleaning or restoration.
Ref: DRN67141315Large  rear bedroom  double bed, two bedside  cabinets, a wardrobe, chest of drawers, 
carpet
As this room is below  the loft which was the source  of the escape  of water, Ageas 
accepts the bed and carpet would need  to be replaced. So Ageas should settle the claim 
for these  items limited to what their preferred suppliers would charge for replacement. 
The remaining  items should be settled at their limit for cleaning  or restoration. 
Hall, stairs, lower  and top landings   carpet
Ageas accepts this would need to be replaced  so Ageas should settle the claim for this, 
limited to what its preferred suppliers  would charge for replacement.
Small  bedroom  carpet, fitted wardrobes.  The report mentions two beds so Im going to 
include a single  bed for this room
As this room is also below  the loft room Ageas accepts the bed and carpet would need to 
be replaced, so it should  settle the claim based on what its preferred suppliers would 
charge for replacement.  The wardrobes  should  be settled at the limit for cleaning or 
restoration. 
Ageas has calculated the claim  at a total of £2,830 calculated  as follows:
£1,880 for the carpet replacements,  (costs  taken  from the website of a leading carpet 
retailer, using the measurements of the rooms provided by their surveyors). 
£600 for a double  bed and a single bed (based on costs from the website of a leading  
bed retailer);
£350 for cleaning/restoration (based on costs from their preferred suppliers). 
The settlement  is subject to the policy excess of £250. Once that has been  deducted Ageas 
should add 8% simple  interest from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Ageas Insurance Limited should resolve the complaint as set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6714131