K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  unreasonably 
refused to authorise  the further investigations his vet advised under his pet policy.
background 
Mrs C dog became unwell on 22 March 2019. So Mr C phoned his vet who is a mobile  vet 
and therefore  visits his clients home  rather than seeing them in a clinic. The vet treated Mr 
Cs dog but unfortunately, his dog then became  worse on 26 March  2019, so Mr C called out 
the vet again.
This time the vet brought the dog into the clinic to undergo some further testing. Mr C told 
Red Sands  what was happening and explained  his dog recently  had his annual vaccinations  
but had been fine before that. His vet also contacted the manufacturers  of the vaccine to 
discuss whether that could have been  a cause of the dogs issues  and concluded it wasnt.
Following x-rays,  Mr Cs vet felt given there  was some  shadow on the dogs pelvis,  the dog 
should have a CT scan. So Mr C asked Red Sands to authorise this. However,  Red Sands 
refused on the basis the problems might be from the vaccine. Mr Cs vet explained to Red 
Sands that it was highly  unlikely the dogs issues were vaccine related. But Red Sands 
refused to change its stance. Mr C cancelled his policy on 19 April 2019 consequently.
So Mr C brought  his complaint to us. The investigator asked  Red Sands to get an 
independent vets view on this vaccine issue. It confirmed it was most unlikely this dogs 
issues were vaccine related. But as Mr C had cancelled  his policy,  Red Sands then refused 
to deal with the issue  of the costs of the recommended CT scans. The investigator didnt 
think this was fair and recommended Red Sands should cover the CT scans.  
Red Sands  never responded  to the investigators  view despite asking for a weeks  extra time 
to do so in September 2019,  and despite  then being  chased for a response. Therefore, Mr 
Cs complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
Other than a passing remark  from Mr C when he was explaining  the issues,  his dog was 
suffering from, there was and is simply no evidence that his dogs issues  might  have been 
caused by the vaccines  Mr Cs dog had had just before he became unwell. This was 
confirmed by Mr Cs vet at the time and such evidence was then unreasonably ignored by 
Red Sands  in my view ensuring it refused to authorise the further  investigations his dog 
required.
Consequently, I dont consider it was reasonable of Red Sands to have relied  on this notion  
in the manner it did. The independent vet instructed by Red Sands which supported  the 
opinion of Mr Cs vet, mistakenly criticised Mr C for jumping to conclusions over the vaccine 
issue, however it wasnt Mr C who came  to that conclusion, but Red Sands instead.  
Ref: DRN67073742That in turn caused Mr C to cancel his policy. Therefore, I agree with the investigator that its 
only fair and reasonable that Red Sands now covers the cost of the CT scans  if they are still 
required and up the original policy limits on vet costs. As if Red Sands hadnt  unreasonably 
latched on to the issue  over the vaccines without  any proof  beyond  Mr Cs initial remarks 
that it was reasonable to do so, Mr C in all likelihood wouldnt have cancelled his policy.  Its 
clear from the vet history  that the recommendation for a CT scan  to be undertaken occurred 
when the policy was live and in being.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands to provide cover for the costs of the CT scans  if they are still 
required, up the policy limits of the policy Mr C had with Red Sands. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6707374