K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not remove  a signatory from its 
bank account  which meant that confidential information was disclosed to that individual.
background
C says that the individual involved  used  to be an employee and had been a signatory to the 
bank account.  But that she had been removed from the mandate. She was later contacted  
about arrears on the account. HSBC paid C £100  compensation  as a gesture of goodwill but 
did not accept  it made  an error.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there was 
no record of HSBC being asked to change  the mandate in either 2012 or 2015  as had been 
said. In fact in 2014 this individual  was made  the primary user of internet banking  for C. And 
she was then removed  from that role in 2015.  But there was no form completed  to change 
the mandate and if there had been the director of C would have needed to sign that too. 
HSBC had not said that any documents  had been  lost and as we provided  informal dispute 
resolution we wouldnt  be testing the evidence  of the ex-employee  involved any further in the 
way a court might.
C did not agree and the director asked the complaint be reviewed. He did not have any 
further information to provide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that the individual contacted no longer  had a connection  with C. And that C 
considered that she no longer would have  a role with the bank account. Ive seen  the results  
of the search  that HBSC carried out of its record file for C. I agree with what  our 
investigators said about this in that there is no evidence of any request to change  the 
mandate. HSBC  has said that such a request would have been  scanned onto the system in 
the same  way the requests about  internet banking were. HSBC  would only be able to 
change the mandate with a duly authorised request by C and there  is no evidence of that. It 
may be that the individual  and C thought that the removal of her access  from internet 
banking had the same  result. But unfortunately that was not the case.
The individual involved was never a director or official  of C based on the records at 
Companies House.  So Im unclear why she was contacted  about  the arrears  on the account 
rather than say the director who was responsible then for C. However,  as she was a 
signatory to the account she remained a point of contact for HSBC and it could work on the 
basis that she knew the position  on the accounts. So Im afraid I dont have a basis to find 
that HSBC was responsible for any breach of confidentiality and that it should compensate  C 
for the impact. It has paid a goodwill  gesture and I wont  be asking it to do anything else.
Ref: DRN67929242my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6792924