K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Monzo Bank  Ltd closed her account and didnt release her funds. 
background
Mrs B had a current account with Monzo. 
On the 25 September 2018  Monzo closed Mrs Bs account immediately. At the time Mrs B 
had £403.68 in her account. On closing her account,  as requested  by Mrs B, Monzo  
transferred £225.66  to Mrs Bs husband which left £145 remaining. 
Mrs B complained to Monzo about  her account  closure and was unhappy they were 
withholding her funds of £145.  Monzo  accepted that they should  have kept Mrs B better 
informed about  the closure  of her account   but it was fair for them to close  her account. 
Monzo also said theyd  received  three  indemnities  for fraudulent  funds so it was fair for them 
to return the £145 to source.  
Mrs B wasnt  happy with Monzos  response so complained to our service. She said that 
because of Monzos actions shed been  struggling financially. And the £145  was from her 
salary so shed like it returned to her. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs B complaint  and thought that Monzo  needed to do 
more. She said it was unfair for Monzo  to not return Mrs Bs funds  but theyd acted fairly in 
immediately closing her account. She asked Monzo  to return  £145 to Mrs B and to pay her 
£105 in compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
Mrs B accepted our investigators view. But Monzo  disagreed, saying theyd acted fairly in 
returning £145 to the victims of the fraud. 
As both parties didnt  agree,  its been passed  to be for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why below. 
£145 funds
Ive looked at the statements for Mrs Bs account. On 25 September Mrs B received £403.68 
in funds, and Im satisfied  these funds were rightfully  hers from her salary.  
Prior to receiving £403.68 on the 25 September Mrs Bs account had a negative balance.  
Which meant at the point of Monzo blocking and immediately closing Mrs Bs account her 
balance was £380.66. Monzo  then transferred £235.66 to Mrs B husband and on the 
27 September sent £145 back to source  bringing her balance  to zero.  
As Monzo  are aware the principle of Claytons rule applies in this case   namely when  
referring to money  first in first out. This says that each withdrawal is presumed to be a return 
of all or part of the oldest  deposit. The result is that the oldest deposit is withdrawn first, or 
the oldest debt is paid first. 
Ref: DRN69628922Applying Claytons  rule at this point  prior to Monzo  returning £145 to the sender  means  
that none of the fraudulent funds remained. 
Ive looked at the evidence and I dont think it was unreasonable for Monzo to try to return  
what they thought was fraudulent money  to source.  But, Im satisfied none of the fraudulent 
funds remained on the 25 September and so Monzo shouldnt  have  returned  the £145.  
Ive also thought about the impact of Monzo not returning Mrs Bs £145 to her. Mrs B has 
explained she struggled financially due to not receiving her funds  Ive not seen any 
evidence of this but Im satisfied not receiving  her funds likely  caused stress and 
inconvenience. And in recognition of that Ill be asking  Monzo to pay £105 to her. 
In summary  Ill be asking Monzo  to refund Mrs B £145. 
account closure
a bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But, before a bank  closes  an account it must  do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  
The terms and conditions  of Mrs B account  state that there  are certain  circumstances in 
which they can immediately close a customers account. The terms and conditions state:
We may close  your account  or stop you using your card and app immediately if we believe 
youve:
A.broken the terms of this agreement
B.put us in a position  where we may break the law
C.broken the law or attempted  to break the law
D.given us false information at any time
E.been abusive to anyone at Monzo  or a member of our community
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Monzo acted in line with the terms and 
condition of Mrs Bs account when  they closed it without notice.
I realise that this will be disappointing  to Mrs B and I appreciate that the closure  of her 
account likely caused her inconvenience.  But the bank can make commercial  decisions 
about who it offers banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a customer.  
But, they can decide they no longer want to do business with individuals.  Thats  because  
they have the commercial  freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im 
satisfied that in Mrs Bs case  Monzo exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it 
decided to close her account. 
In summary  I dont think Monzo  acted fairly in returning Mrs Bs funds to source. So they 
should return the funds to her and pay £105 to compensate for the inconvenience caused. 
But I dont think they did anything wrong  in immediately  closing her account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive outlined above, my final decision is I direct  Monzo  bank ltd to:
Ref: DRN69628923Refund Mrs B £145
Pay Mrs B £105 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6962892