K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs F bought the policy in March 2001 at the same time as taking out a loan. They  
applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 180-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £226.30 
with the PPI costing  an additional £23.48  making the total monthly repayment £249.78. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr F only for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Fs monthly loan 
repayment for up to 60 months in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 in the 
event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr F was employed as a Local Government Officer. He has told us hed receive 
at least six months full pay should  he be unable  to work. Mr F would also receive  a 
redundancy payment if he lost his job. Mr Fs employer offered a death in service  benefit. Mr 
and Mrs F have  also told us they had some savings.
Mr F has told us that at the time of the sale he had no medical conditions. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Fs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs F 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and      
Mrs Fs representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs F about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN60250252The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs F and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN60250253The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs F sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN60250254-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs F, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs F 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs F 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs F know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the original loan application form. I can see Mr F has signed in a box to 
accept the PPI policy. An equally prominent  box to decline PPI has been left unsigned.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs F knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
The sale took place  in a face-to-face  meeting  at a branch. BoS has told us that its advisor 
would have recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs F and I think that is most likely.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs F with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs F. It seems Mr and Mrs F cant  remember  clearly  what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Fs financial circumstances, but there is no specific  evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs F would have been  caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest BoS considered  whether Mr and 
Mrs F had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs F given their circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs F had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Fs ability to 
continue to meet their loan repayments would  have been put under strain if Mr F was  
Ref: DRN60250255not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy and 
sick pay they would have been  entitled  to. I say this as the loan was taken for a 
relatively lengthy term of 180 months. Mr Fs full sick pay would only last for six 
months, whereas  the PPI policy could have  paid a monthly benefit for up to 60 
months if he was unable to work. And any redundancy payment is unlikely to have 
been more than 12 months  pay.
-Mr and Mrs F chose  to take out a loan rather than use their savings so I think it is 
likely the savings were important to them. And the PPI would mean  they didnt have 
to dip into their savings to make the loan repayments if Mr F became unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs F.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs F. 
There was nothing  about Mr Fs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs F sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs F were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr F was unable  to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and the PPI premium 
was clearly set out on the credit agreement. I have reached this conclusion  because I think 
its unlikely Mr and Mrs F would  have  taken out the policy without  any sense of what  the 
policy was for.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before     
Mr and Mrs F agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs F Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs F. Im not persuaded BoS gave  Mr and Mrs F all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Fs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and    
Mrs Fs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN60250256-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Fs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs F about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Fs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs F has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry 
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought  to have done either. 
What effect did BoSs  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs F? To what extent  did Mr and 
Mrs F suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs F. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs F suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must  decide whether or not    
Mr and Mrs F would  have  still taken out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs F, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs F has suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs F would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mr and Mrs F says they wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs F had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their loan payments in the event Mr F was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN60250257As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs F were given about the cost  was  
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the benefit, limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  
Im not persuaded BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs F would get back in return in the 
event they made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Fs expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs F thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions  that Mr F knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs F wasnt a permanent  employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs F be 
unable to do his own job, a similar job or any paid work which his experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs F pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs F from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr F was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
they wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr  F  didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and     
Mrs F might reasonably  have  expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs F from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs F, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs F had known Mr F could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do 
his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what they would do. 
Ref: DRN60250258And I accept  it may have  given them pause  for thought  although  given their circumstances  
on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  were Mr and Mrs F made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs F would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs F would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Fs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs F found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs F believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs F in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs F compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN60250259Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Fs representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt  
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs F in a better  position than if everything  had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2021.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6025025