K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as NatWest) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2008.  Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered their mortgage 
payments in case either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I do not think that this PPI policy was mis-
sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage application  had a section for insurance. There was the option to 
take out PPI or to turn it down. The option  to buy PPI was filled in, with it recorded  that 
Mr and Mrs P wanted it to cover both of them, and what type of cover they wanted. The 
option to not buy the policy was left blank. They also submitted a separate form which  Mrs P 
signed on behalf of the couple, confirming she wanted the policy. She selected joint cover,  
along with the benefit they wanted,  and set up a direct debit to pay for the PPI. This direct  
debit was separate to the one for the mortgage itself, rather  than an included  cost.
The mortgage offer then reiterated that Mr and Mrs P didnt  have to buy any insurance from 
NatWest if they didnt want to. It described the PPI as optional and set out its cost 
separately to the mortgages cost, rather than as something that was necessarily included. 
And Ive not seen  any evidence which shows NatWest put Mr or Mrs P under any unfair 
pressure to buy PPI. So I think that NatWest made  Mr and Mrs P aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  even  if, understandably, 
they no longer  remember doing so after so long. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs P clear  information about the PPI.
Its possible that the information NatWest  gave Mr and Mrs P about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs P chose to take out PPI, which  implies  
they wanted this type of cover. And Mr and Mrs P werent affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions  or limitations.  While they had some benefits through work, it looks like the 
PPI covered them for longer,  and it wouldve paid out on top of those benefits.  Mr and Mrs P 
said they also had some savings, though those wouldve  only lasted for so long, and the PPI 
meant they could protect their savings  and use them for other things.
Ref: DRN61764432Its worth  bearing in mind  that the mortgage was secured  on Mr and Mrs Ps property, and if 
they fell behind on their payments they risked losing their home.  So I think the PPI couldve 
been useful for Mr and Mrs P in protecting their home and giving some  peace of mind.  The 
policy was not bad value given how much  it would pay out in a claim, and it looks  like it 
wouldve been affordable. And if Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances changed, they could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont  think that better information was likely to 
have put them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6176443