K822xcomplaint
Miss B is unhappy that issues with TSB Bank  plcs IT system made it difficult for her to 
obtain details  and reassurance about  fraudulent  activity that had taken place on her account, 
as well as causing  general problems in accessing her account  information.
background
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. Miss B has told us that in late 
April she attempted to access her account  details online, but was unable to do so. Miss B 
says that she called TSB and, following a lengthy  wait, was connected to a representative 
who helped  reset her login details. However,  she gained temporary access  only before the 
problems resumed, and the information  she was able to see caused  her concern as it 
contained data relating  to other  customers.  
Miss B says this process kept happening,  resulting in her having  to make a series of calls to 
TSB over a number of days to reset her login information. I understand she had to wait 
through lengthy periods  of time on hold before being connected each time she rang, and she 
kept being transferred to different departments, which was stressful  and frustrating.
Miss B has told us that on 30 April she accessed her account  online and saw that £500 had 
been removed  from her account  without her authorisation. After further difficulties contacting 
the relevant TSB department, Miss B says she spoke with the Fraud Team, and the issue 
was corrected. Miss B has told us that she was assured  her account was now secure.
However, a week later Miss B says she discovered approximately £2,500 had been taken 
from her credit card, bringing her near to her credit limit. She says she also received a text 
saying she would be charged a fee as a result  of this. Miss B has said she tried to contact 
TSB again, and spent  more time on hold,  as well as being promised a call back which never 
happened. 
Although I understand the funds  and any fees have  since been refunded, Miss B says she 
has never received  a clear explanation as to what happened and why. In total she says she 
was unable to use her online account  properly  for around six weeks,  that she had difficulties 
with transfers and direct debits, and that in the end she felt the need  to change banks.
In addition Miss B has told us that she experienced difficulties with her mobile and landline 
telephone providers, as she discovered that attempts had been made to cancel her contract 
and to divert  her calls by individuals with access  to her personal  information. I understand 
her email  account was also affected. As a result Miss B has said she has had to change  her 
telephone numbers and various  passwords. 
Miss B has told us she has been  extremely worried about everything she has experienced 
and the possibility of identity theft.   She says the stress  has led to her taking time off work, 
and that she has suffered  from insomnia as a result  of what has happened.  Miss B has also 
said that the customer service she received from TSB was poor, and has especially noted a 
lack of communication. 
Miss B brought her complaint to this service in July 2018. Our investigator looked  into the 
complaint and agreed that it should be upheld. He recommended TSB pay Miss B a total of 
£300 to reflect the trouble and upset caused by all the issues shed experienced in relation to 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN69217682TSB accepted our Investigators  view, but Miss B didnt.  She felt that £300  was not enough 
to compensate her for everything  shed experienced.  She also made  reference  to an 
acquaintance who she said had received  a higher  payment,  despite  having experienced 
better service than her. 
Since then our Investigator has asked Miss B for details of any charges she may have 
incurred as a result of the many telephone calls she says she made to TSB. Miss B has told 
us she has had difficulties  obtaining evidence of this, but that she agrees that £30 would be 
a fair amount to cover any such charges. TSB has agreed to pay £30 in respect of these  
charges, so this point  is no longer  under dispute.
As Miss B has requested  an ombudsmans  decision  on her complaint, it has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our Investigator.
Firstly, Ive thought about any financial loss Miss B may have incurred as a result of the 
issues described above. As already  stated,  compensation of £30 has been agreed to cover 
the cost of calls she made to TSB whilst trying to resolve the various  problems with her 
account. I agree that TSB should pay Miss B this sum.
Ive not seen evidence of other direct financial loss, but I can certainly appreciate that Miss B 
has experienced worry and inconvenience  as a result of everything that has happened.  So I 
think that Miss B is entitled to compensation regarding this too.
Miss B thinks the figure of £300  proposed by our Investigator  isnt high enough  to 
compensate her for everything  shes experienced. But I think  this figure seems reasonable, 
and is broadly in line with what Id expect to see in a case  of this nature. I do understand 
Miss Bs strength of feeling  on the matter, but I should explain that its not within  this 
services remit  to sanction or punish  businesses, but simply to put things right for individual  
consumers.
Miss B has made reference to another TSB customer who she believes has been awarded 
more compensation,  despite having experienced fewer problems than she has. However, 
there may be additional factors  in that case that dont apply here, which  is why we assess  
each case on its individual merits. The sole focus of this decision is Miss Bs complaint and I 
cant comment further on any other case here. 
Overall, having reviewed all the information  relating to this case, I think that a total payment 
of £300 is an appropriate figure to compensate Miss B for the trouble  and upset resulting 
from TSBs  failings in this case. TSB can deduct  any award already made for stress and 
inconvenience from this figure.
Ref: DRN69217683my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If TSB Bank plc has not already  done so, it 
should pay Miss B £300 for the trouble and upset shes  experienced and £30 for her call 
costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6921768