K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about marketing material sent to Mr L by National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) regarding  a loan.
background
Mr and Mrs L hold a joint account with NatWest. 
In autumn 2017,  Mr L received a leaflet, inviting him to apply for a loan with an interest  rate 
of 2.9%. The letter  indicated that this offer was only available  via telephone application. 
Mr L completed an application for the loan, but through the course of his application  it 
became clear that he needed to include details from his joint account, such as his and his 
wifes outgoings.
Mr L was not offered  the rate of 2.9%, and he cancelled the application. 
He subsequently complained to NatWest. He was concerned that the offer letter was 
inappropriate in that it appeared to be based on his joint account but it was addressed only 
to him, and not his wife, and that joint outgoings were taken into account but only his sole 
income.
NatWest sent him its final response letter in October  2017. It apologised that he was 
disappointed but made clear that the offer was not open to joint applications. It offered him 
an alternative rate of 6.9% on another loan.  
Mr L was not happy  with this response  and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into Mr Ls complaint and has set out a view to the 
parties. He noted  that the evidence showed  that Mr L applied  for the loan by an online 
application and the initial offer had limited  the offer to telephone  applications.  The 
investigator felt that the marketing letter suggested  that Mr L had already been deemed 
eligible for the loan and so it was disappointing for Mr L to then not be offered  the same  rate 
when he completed  the application. He therefore recommended  that the business pay him 
£100 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience. 
Both the business  and Mr and Mrs L have rejected that recommendation, and so the 
complaint has been passed for an ombudsman  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has provided a sample copy of the type of mailing that was sent to Mr L and I agree 
with the investigator  that it does present itself as an offer of a loan with an interest rate of 
2.9%. The mailing does  not contain obvious discussion of eligibility  criteria.  
The mailing says that the offer is only available by calling NatWest and giving the personal 
offer code,  but then also mentions applying online,  on the mobile  app or visiting  in branch if 
applying for a different amount, and that a credit search will be done  on an application. 
Ref: DRN67104582Mr L has said that he applied over the phone. NatWest has provided evidence  which  shows  
that they have  carried  out a search  of their call records and have only one call from Mr L, 
which related to his complaint. They have also provided evidence of the cancelled  
application which shows that it was an internet application.
On the basis of the evidence provided,  I accept  that Mr L applied by the internet  rather  than 
by phone as was required. As the preferential rate required a telephone application I do not 
criticise NatWest  for not offering the preferential rate to an application which  did not meet its 
specifications. 
Overall, I agree  with the investigators  conclusion that NatWest was not obliged  to lend to 
any person and its decision not to offer a loan at a particular rate is a matter for the 
business. 
I do, however,  agree  that the mailing gives the impression that applying was a formality,  and 
that Mr L would be accepted if he applied.  To then find that he was not eligible for a loan at 
this rate based  on either his individual  or joint application would have been disappointing, 
and wasted Mr Ls time in applying  at all. 
As a result, I think that sending Mr L the mailing was poor service  and caused  Mr L some 
distress and inconvenience. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ls additional concern that the mailing was addressed  to Mr L only, 
rather than to his wife. NatWest has not provided  any explanation for the discrepancy, but 
businesses are entitled to market products  and offers to different customers  based on the 
individual information it holds on them. In this instance it appears more that the mailing  was 
not appropriate for Mr L, rather than that it should also have  been  sent to Mrs L. I therefore 
understand the concern,  but do not think that it was wrong of NatWest  not to have 
addressed the mailing jointly, or to have sent a mailing to Mrs L in addition. I do not consider 
this poor service. 
I consider that Mr L was caused some distress  and inconvenience by being led to believe he 
was eligible for a particular loan at a particular rate, and then applying, only to learn that he 
was not eligible, which would have caused disappointment. I think that this wasted some of 
his time, in making  the application and then pursuing a complaint. I think that the 
investigators recommendation of £100 compensation is reasonable, and in line with awards 
we would make in similar circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and direct National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs L £100 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6710458