K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr and Mrs S hold with Nationwide  Building Society. 
They say Nationwide  didnt  advise them correctly when they changed  their mortgage product 
in 2016. They say that if theyd been  offered the correct  rate, their outstanding  mortgage 
balance would have  been lower at the end of the product term.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 14 January 2019, I set out the reasons  why I wasnt 
persuaded this complaint should  be upheld. The provisional decision is attached to, and 
forms part of, this final decision. I gave the parties  until 28 January 2019  to reply. 
Mr and Mrs S responded to say, in summary:
Nationwide initially said it didnt have historic  records of alternative  rates  from 2016  when  
it later admitted it did and produced them to us;
The information I described as a forecast  and then didnt place any reliance  on was 
something we specifically asked them to produce;
Nationwide should take the tool it used in 2018 and apply it retrospectively to the 2016  
change.
Nationwide didnt have  anything further  to say.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded I 
should change  my view of this complaint.
I appreciate its annoying  for a consumer when  a business says it doesnt have information 
that it later produces. Its understandable that it would damage peoples  confidence  in what 
the business says; nonetheless, its not something  on which my decision on the complaint 
turns.
We cant know how much  reliance we should  place on a piece of evidence  until after weve  
seen it. Also,  we wont know how were  going to decide a complaint until after weve seen all 
the evidence.  But its worth repeating the point  I made, which  was that I didnt  have to 
consider the reliability or otherwise of Mr Ss information, because  the outcome of the 
complaint turned on other things.  But I agree with Mr S that I was wrong to describe them as 
forecasts, not least because they were  produced after the event.  
Lastly, Nationwide doesnt have to take its current methodology and apply it to what 
happened in 2016. The very point on which the complaint  turns is that we dont take todays 
standards and apply  them retrospectively; we decide a complaint based on what was 
considered fair and reasonable  at the time the events  complained  about took place.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order or award 
against Nationwide Building Society.  My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Ref: DRN64809062Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64809063CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaints about  a mortgage Mr and Mrs S hold with Nationwide  Building Society. They say 
Nationwide didnt advise  them correctly  when they changed their mortgage product in 2016. They say 
that if theyd  been offered the correct rate, their outstanding  mortgage balance would  have been lower 
at the end of the product  term.
background
In the summer of 2016, Mr and Mrs Ss existing  interest rate product  was about to expire.  Nationwide  
recommended that they should take out a two-year fixed rate of 1.79% which didnt  have a fee.  
Paragraph 24c of the suitability  document dated 13 August 2016, said:
The no fee product is more  cost effective than paying a fee upfront when compared over the term of 
the product. I have done the calculations  over the product  term to ensure  you would recoup this when 
you next review.  As this was not cost effective I have recommended a no fee product.
The new product started on 1 September 2016. Shortly before expiry  in 2018, Mr and Mrs S went  
back to Nationwide  to talk about their options. This time, they were  advised  to take out a product with 
a fee. They were  told there would be a lower interest rate and their balance at the end of the product 
term would be lower.  This caused Mr and Mrs S to complain  about  the opposite advice  Nationwide 
had given them in 2016.
Nationwide didnt uphold their complaint.  It acknowledged it had recently  introduced changes, but said 
it couldnt retrospectively  calculate  what the position would have  been when Mr and Mrs Ss 2016 
product switch had been done. Nationwide  said the 2016 product switch had been completed in line 
with its policy and processes at the time.
Mr and Mrs S werent  satisfied  and complained  to us. They explained  that although they wouldnt 
have saved enough on the monthly payments to outweigh the fee, the balance after two years would  
have been lower  because of the lower interest rate.
Mr and Mrs S also provided  articles showing that in 2016 Nationwide had also offered  a two-year 
fixed rate product at 1.49%, with a £999 fee. Nationwide provided a spreadsheet showing the fee 
products it had offered in 2016. These included:
-a two-year fixed rate of 1.39% with a £999 fee, for consumers who were  borrowing less than 
60% of their propertys value (Loan to value or LTV), and 
-a two-year fixed rate of 1.49% with a £999 fee, for consumers who were  borrowing between 
60% and 70% LTV.  
The investigator recommended  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint be upheld.  He noted  that Nationwide had 
agreed that Mr and Mrs S had been equally  eligible for a fee or non-fee  product. But it said it couldnt  
calculate exactly  how much  Mr and Mrs S would have saved if theyd gone for a fee product in 2016. 
Mr S made his own forecast of the difference between the 1.79% product without a fee, and the 
1.49% product with a fee, which was £2,076. He based this on the monthly payment saving, plus the 
estimated difference  in the remaining balance outstanding at the end of the two-year term.  He then 
deducted the £999 fee.
The investigator also commented  that Nationwides spreadsheet  had shown  a 1.39% fee. But he said 
that as he couldnt calculate  how much this extra saving would be, he was asking Nationwide  to pay 
Ref: DRN64809064Mr Ss calculated figure of £2,076. Mr S subsequently estimated the saving from the 1.39%  product to 
be £2,445.
In any event, Nationwide disagreed. It explained that it had based  its 2016 recommendation on the 
fact that payments at the cheaper  rate would have saved about £900 over the two-year term. This 
was less than the £999 fee. It said that this approach was correct at the time.
Mr and Mrs S said they appreciated that the savings  on the monthly payments alone wouldnt equate 
to the £999 fee, but maintained that the remaining balance at the end of the two-year term would  have 
been lower.  And they pointed out that when Nationwide carried out the same calculation at the time of 
the product renewal in 2018, it had taken this into account.  Nationwides adviser  in 2018 had clearly 
told them that on a product with a fee, its the lower remaining balance at the end of the product, 
which results  in the overall savings.  They  pointed out that as a result of Nationwides 2016 advice, 
their mortgage balance was higher in 2018 than it would have been if theyd been advised to take a 
product with a fee.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has argued that in 2016  it could  only take into account the monthly  payments and fee  
not the lower balance. This approach had changed by 2018,  which was why Nationwide gave Mr and 
Mrs S different advice  in 2018. Nationwides final response letter describes  the changes as system 
improvements. It seems  to me that the gist of Mr and Mrs S case is that it wasnt acceptable for 
Nationwide to give inaccurate advice  in 2016 because its systems hadnt  then been improved.  
I can see why they might  think that, and Im not unsympathetic; on first look it might seem logical to 
say that Nationwide  should  be liable retrospectively for any limitations of the methodology in use prior 
to being enhanced. However, such an approach  is effectively asking  me to act as regulator, and thats 
not my role or function. When we assess a complaint, we have to judge the actions of a financial 
business by reference to the standards and practices in place at the time of the events complained 
about. We dont take todays standard and apply  them retrospectively. 
It appears to be common ground now that a fee-based product with a lower rate would have resulted 
in a lower  balance  at the end of the product term. But Nationwide wasnt able to factor that in when  it 
recommended the non-fee product with the higher rate in 2016.  When  I judge Nationwides 2016 
recommendation against the standards and practices at the time  as Im required to do  I dont find 
that the advice given to take a non-fee product was unsuitable.
That being so, I dont need to consider  how much reliance to place on Mr Ss forecasts  of what the 
mortgage balance  would have been if a fee product with a lower  rate had been recommended in 
2016. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Nationwide Building  Society.  
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 28 January 2019, or sooner  if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6480906