K820x#14complaint
A complaint was made  to Canada Life Limited  on behalf of the estate of Mr P and his widow  
Mrs P, about Mr Ps pension  arrangements.
background
In January 2004 Mr Ps personal pension plan provider (not Canada life) sent Mr P some 
retirement information. Mr P responded and a full retirement pack was provided prior to his 
retirement date in May 2004. The cover letter sent to Mr P attached  illustrations and options. 
It referred to the terms on which the illustrations and options  had been  calculated. There  was 
a reference in the cover letter to all options/  illustrations being  prepared on a single life and 
level basis. 
The initial correspondence referred to Mr P having  options using both the non-protected 
rights and protected  rights elements of his pension  plan.
There was a delay  to Mr Ps arrangements being set up as Mr Ps provider didnt have the 
correct paperwork to ensure Mr P was able to take a tax-free lump sum.  Once  this had been 
obtained, further paperwork was sent to Mr P. These documents  set out the options 
available for Mr P in respect of taking  his benefits  using the non-protected rights element  of 
his pension plan.
Mr P went  on to complete  the paperwork to select an option  that enabled him to take a cash  
free lump  sum and buy an annuity  with the non-protected rights element of his pension.
Mr Ps annuity was set up on a single life, level basis. This meant  that payments were  only to 
be made to Mr P during his life time and that if he died the regular annuity payments would 
stop. Mr P chose to set it up with a five-year guarantee period. This meant that if Mr P died 
during the first five years of his annuity  payments being paid, then they would continue to be 
paid out for the remainder of the first five years. Mr P didnt choose to increase his annuity 
payments over time and so selected them to be paid on the same,  level basis. Payments 
were set up to be made in monthly, in arrears.
The annuity  started to be paid to Mr P in 2004. In January 2006 Canada Life took over 
responsibility for the administration  of Mr Ps annuity and the monthly  payments to him.
Nothing was set up in 2004 in respect of the protected rights portion of Mr Ps pension.  Its 
understood a complaint has been made  about this. But Canada Life arent responsible  for 
what happened in 2004 so that is being looked at separately.
Mr P died on 11 October 2017.  There was contact with different businesses after Mr Ps 
death about his pension  although this service doesnt have the full information. Weve  been 
told that it was understood by Mrs P and the family, that Mrs P was entitled  to payments 
from her husbands pension arrangements. They believed this was Mr Ps understanding  
and intention.
Canada Life told Mrs P that she wasnt entitled  to any payments under the annuity they had 
been paying to Mr P. And they told her and her representative their responsibility  was only 
respect of the annuity that had been set up in 2004.
Ref: DRN61697082Canada Life explained  to Mrs P and her family  that the family documents  provided,  related to 
information on the funds Mr P had first transferred into his pension plan in 1989. These  had 
included details of the protected rights  element  of his pension arrangements, which included 
an increasing level of annuity and a spousal  benefit.  But this information wasnt  relevant to 
the annuity they had been  paying Mr P, as this had been bought  and set up using the non-
protected rights element  of his pension plan.
In September  2018 the providers of Mr Ps original pension plan (started in 1989) confirmed 
that the protected rights element of Mr Ps plan had not been claimed at any time. This led to 
a payment being made by this provider to Mrs P. This has been considered as part of the 
separate complaint.
A complaint was made  to this service and documents held by Mrs P and her family were  
submitted. Our investigator considered the complaint, but she didnt think Canada Life had 
done anything  wrong. She provided  copies  of the original documents  that Canada  Life had 
given us, to Mrs P and her family.  
Mrs Ps daughter didnt  agree and asked  for an ombudsman to make decision on the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I have also looked  at Mrs Ps other complaint. In my other  decision  I have  set out a little 
more about the history,  I hope this will allow Mrs P and her family to understand more  about 
the situation. 
I hope it will be understood that I am only looking in this decision at the complaint made 
about Canada  Life. 
All I have  been  required  to consider  in respect of this complaint is whether Canada Life have 
done anything  wrong and failed to pay Mr P any money from when they took over the 
payment of his annuity in 2006;  and if Canada Life ought to have started paying Mrs P an 
income after Mr Ps death in 2017.
I understand Mrs P and her family have thought for some time that Mr Ps annuity ought to 
have been increased by 3% each year since it started, and that once he died, Mrs P ought  to 
have been receiving 50% of Mr Ps annuity. They have  thought  this based on the historic 
documents they had.
But this isnt right and I hope this is now appreciated. The documents Mrs P and her family 
particularly relied  upon relate to when Mr P transferred pension benefits in 1989 from his 
work pension scheme into a new personal pension plan. And the document  contains 
information on the guaranteed benefits that came  with the protected  rights element of his 
pension plan. But these  guarantees  didnt cover all of Mr Ps pension  arrangements. Mr P 
also had a non-protected rights element of his pension plan. 
Ref: DRN61697083And in 2004 it was the non-protected  rights part of his plan that was used to provide  Mr P 
with a tax-free lump  sum and the remainder if this part was used to buy and set up the 
annuity he then went on to receive.
It was also in 2004 that the terms on which the annuity were set up were  selected and put in 
place. I have carefully considered in my other decision what  happened in 2004.
But Canada Lifes responsibility  only started in 2006.  In summary they were simply required 
to continue paying Mr P the annuity hed been receiving since  2004  and on the terms on 
which it had been  set up in 2004. And I think they did this.
I understand Mrs P and her family think Mr P would have intended his annuity  to be paid in a 
certain way. But this isnt a matter that can be properly considered  against  Canada Life.
Based on what I have seen, including the documents  from 2004,  Canada Life were required 
from 2006 to continue paying  Mr P the annuity hed bought and been receiving since  2004 
on a level basis (not increasing). And once Mr P died, if this was more than five years after 
the annuity had started,  there were no further payments to be made, and no spousal 
payments to follow. I think Canada Life did this.
I have also seen Mrs Ps representative also felt Canada Life displayed an insufficient level 
of sympathy at a difficult time. But I dont agree. I have no doubt  this was an upsetting  and 
worrying time and I think Canada Life acknowledged  this. I also think  they provided  accurate 
explanations in a timely  manner here. I dont think any delay  was caused by Canada  Life, 
and it has been  their provision of the original documents that I think has assisted all parties 
in relation to all complaints.
I hope that by reading this decision in conjunction with my other decision, Mrs P and her 
family will get some understanding of what happened and how the various pension 
arrangements work. I accept there  is some  complexity here and it might be said that some 
parties havent been as clear they could have been  or provided accurate information. But I 
dont think this comment applies  to Canada Life here. I think  Canada Life provided accurate 
information and have done  all they were required to do.
my final decision
So, for the reasons given I dont uphold  the complaint made  against  Canada Life Limited. 
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mrs P, on her own behalf and that of the estate of Mr P, 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6169708