K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained that her pet insurance  policy renewed and she was charged 
premiums after she says she told BDML  Connect  Limited (trading as ASDA)  that she didnt 
want to renew the policy. 
Mrs F wants the outstanding balance  to be written off and an acknowledgement  that she 
didnt renew the policy  in 2018. 
background
Mrs F had a pet insurance policy for her dog. In February 2019 she received a renewal 
notice but Mrs F thought  shed cancelled the policy  the previous year either by phone  or 
email.
Mrs F was under  the impression that she had cancelled the policy  so wasnt expecting  to 
receive the renewal  notice. She says that a change in her financial  circumstances  meant she 
cut back on non-essential spending in 2018. She contacted her bank who refunded  Mrs F 
under an indemnity claim. BDML have requested the outstanding  amount of £212.64 from 
Mrs F.
Mrs F says during this time she treated her dog herself rather than using a vet and claiming 
on the policy. She says this is evidence that she hadnt renewed her policy. Mrs F 
complained to BDML  but theyve said theyve got no record of any policy cancelation  request 
from her in 2018. 
Mrs F referred her complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
In summary,  they found that there was no supporting  evidence  that Mrs F did cancel  the 
policy and, as the monthly direct debit for the insurance premiums continued to come out of 
her bank account, Mrs F should reasonably  have  been aware that the policy had renewed. 
Mrs F didnt  accept our investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  my 
reasons below.
Ive considered that Mrs F first took this policy out in 2015 and it auto renewed in 2016.  I 
think this is important as Mrs F would have had some  experience  of the renewal process 
prior to 2017 and 2018. If something wasnt right I think  she ought to reasonably  have been 
aware much sooner  than she realised that the policy had auto renewed. 
When Ive queried the renewal with BDML, theyve told me; In 2017  we had a change  of 
system, which meant slight changes to the way the policy was administered, for example if 
an email address was held all communication would  now be sent by email (including the 
renewal documents).  This was confirmed to Mrs F in a posted letter dated 4 January 2017. 
Ref: DRN69279622Ive seen a copy  of this letter and it does  point out that any future correspondence will be 
sent to Mrs Fs email address, including the 2017  renewal.  
Ive also seen a screenshot  of BDMLs email activity for the 2018 renewal. It shows that on 
2 February 2018  a renewal invitation was sent to Mrs Fs email address. This was opened 
on 2 February, 4 February as well as other later dates. So I cant fairly  say that Mrs F wasnt 
aware that the renewal was going  ahead.  
Ive then gone on to consider if theres any evidence of Mrs F contacting BDML after 
receiving the renewal email. 
BDML have shown  us evidence that their system hasnt any record  of a phone call from a 
mobile number ending *******13 belonging to Mrs F. Mrs F also hasnt shown us any phone 
record of her calling BDML. It seems more  likely  than not that no telephone call was made. 
Ive also noted  that Mrs F initially said she may have contacted BDML either by phone or 
email but wasnt sure.  It was later that Mrs F told our investigator that it would have been by 
email. This uncertainty is understandable given  some time has passed, but this also means  
that its more difficult for me to place  the weight that she may have wanted me to on her 
recollection of events.  
Mrs F hasnt  provided evidence of any email  she sent to BDML about not renewing the 
policy. Ive also noted that Mrs F was given another opportunity by our investigator to check  
her sent email items,  but none has been  provided.  However, I also acknowledge that many  
people may empty or delete  sent items  either intentionally or it can happen automatically  
after certain time periods. But without further  evidence I cant say that Mrs F did contact 
BDML to cancel  the policy. 
Mrs F did open her renewal documents around the time of the renewal in 2018  and the 
month after the renewal. Whist she says this was because she was comparing the cover 
with other  quotes  online, it could also be argued that it would be reasonable for a policy 
holder to check their renewal documents periodically to check  what  they were covered for
- as a pets  health circumstances can change over the course of year. 
I cant safely say what Mrs Fs reasons for opening  the renewal documents  were,  but I agree  
with Mrs F that simply looking at these documents  is not evidence of her awareness of the 
renewal having  taken place. 
Ive also carefully considered the other evidence in this case, such  as Mrs F telling us that 
she bought supplies  to treat her dog rather than seeing a vet and claiming  on the insurance 
policy. Although Mrs F says this is evidence  that she wasnt  aware of the policy having 
renewed, I dont agree.  
I say this because  it could equally be argued that the treatment required was not something  
that Mrs F felt was necessary for a vet to deal with or something that she felt was worth 
paying any potential  excess  on an insurance policy to see a vet. In my opinion,  as the 
supplies were also bought online, this doesnt  suggest there  was urgency to the treatment 
required.
Ive also considered the direct debits that left Mrs Fs bank account. Mrs F has said that 
these came from a separate account  that she didnt have oversight of, as she transfers  a 
lump sum over each  month to cover  bills. In my opinion this isnt a key point as Ive already 
Ref: DRN69279623made the finding that I think its more likely than not that Mrs F didnt contact BDML to cancel 
the insurance to prevent it auto renewing.  
Having reviewed all the evidence, on balance, I dont think  that BDML have done  anything 
wrong and I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6927962