K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that the investment advice he was given by Copia Wealth
Management Ltd (Copia) regarding his Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP) was 
unsuitable, leaving him unable to access his pension fund when required.
background
Mr M approached Copia in late 2015  as he was considering  reducing  his working hours now 
that he was 55 years old, and using his pension funds to supplement  his income.
Mr M had wanted to consolidate  his pension plans and take the Pension Commencement 
Lump Sum (PCLS), commonly referred  to as tax free cash, immediately. The remainder of 
the funds were to be invested and Mr M planned to take income payments as and when 
required. Mr M at the time also had deferred  benefits in a final salary  scheme  with his 
previous employer.
The adviser at Copia recommended that Mr M switch his personal pension  arrangements to 
a SIPP,  administered by The Lifetime SIPP Company, which  would allow him to access his 
PCLS immediately. The remaining funds were  to be invested. The deferred benefits in his 
previous employers scheme  were not to be transferred at this time.
The adviser completed a fact finding  exercise and an Attitude to Risk questionnaire with
Mr M and concluded that he was a Balanced Investor.
The adviser noted that Mr M would like to invest using  a Medium  risk approach, managed  
by a discretionary fund manager (DFM). It was felt that this would provide him with, potential 
higher growth  over the medium  to long term. The recommendation letter issued  by the 
adviser also set out that Mr M had no intention of withdrawing money, over and above the 
PCLS, from the fund.
The SIPP was arranged as planned and the PCLS was paid on 23 December 2015.  The 
investment of the remaining  funds took place  in January 2016.
Following this, Mr M transferred  his deferred  benefits from his previous employers scheme 
into the plan in May 2016, and once  again took the PCLS shortly afterwards. He then went  
on to take irregular  payments as and when required.
In early 2018, on the advice of a separate financial adviser, Mr M wished to switch his
remaining funds to another investment  platform.  This was so he would have access to a 
wide range  of investments and be able to view his investments online,  which  he could not do 
with the current  arrangement.
Mr M was advised by the SIPP  administrators  that he could not switch the full fund as
there was approximately £5,700 invested  in Angelfish shares which  could not be sold as
there was at present no market for them.
Mr M was very unhappy with this and complained that he should  not have had this
type of investment in his SIPP account  - as it was not appropriate given his attitude to risk
and his requirements for income from the fund.
Copia issued a response to the complaint. In summary it said:
Ref: DRN67117032Mr M met with its adviser  in October 2015. Mr M stated at this point that he wished to 
consolidate all his pensions, enter  drawdown  and take 25% tax free cash. 
Mr M showed  a good level of knowledge of investments
Mr M was recommended  a DFM portfolio which consisted of a range of different  
assets  Mr M was in full agreement  with that portfolio.
The Angelfish shares are currently illiquid and it had submitted claims on behalf  of its 
clients to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). This was because  it 
felt the investment manager of the portfolio had failed to act in the best interests of its 
clients.
When the portfolio  had been  recommended to Mr M, they had been  assured by the 
DFM manager that it was a standard investment with 30 day liquid investments held 
within it. 
Claims can now be made to the FSCS against the DFM.
It has not been negligent  and the fact that some of the investments in the DFM  are 
non-standard is the failure  of the DFM.  
An adjudicator at this service  considered  the complaint. She reviewed the fact find 
document and the recommendation letter and noted it was recorded by the adviser that Mr 
Ms intention was to access the PCLS immediately but to leave the remainder of the funds 
invested indefinitely.  
However, Mr M said that his intention  had always been to access  the funds, as he was 
planning to reduce his hours  of work  and use the pension to supplement  his income  on an 
irregular basis. 
It was noted that Mr M did start accessing  his pension  income  in July 2016, only eight 
months after the SIPP policy was first effected.  Whether or not this was made clear at the 
time of the advice,  it was the adjudicators view that when advising an individual  over the age 
of 55 who is entering a flexi-access  drawdown SIPP it should  be a consideration for the 
adviser that access to funds may well be required in the near future. The investment strategy 
should therefore allow for this.
The proposed investment  was the Broad  Based  Property Portfolio - this was described  as a 
Medium Risk portfolio.
Having read the description given in the investment strategy part of the report, the 
adjudicator noted  the investment managers objective is described as follows:
. to achieve capital appreciation  through sourcing, identifying and investing in what  they
deem to be dynamic  and entrepreneurial listed Companies on the London Stock
Exchange, and the ICAP ISDX, HMRC recognised exchange, companies we believe offer
profit potential through a non-leveraged, long term strategy. The strategy is in U.K. listed
London Stock Exchange shares  and Bonds quoted on a Recognised Investment
Exchange.
Ref: DRN67117033This was followed in the letter by a risk warning  advising the following:
ISDX,  AIM and Footsie small  cap shares may be less liquid than shares  in Footsie 100. By
entering into transactions in non-readily realisable investments the market is limited  or
could become so. You may have difficulty selling such an investment at a reasonable price
and, in some  circumstances it may be difficult to sell it at any price.
The adjudicator thought  that the completed  risk questionnaire  demonstrated Mr M was a 
medium risk investor and she didnt consider that ICAP,  ISDX, AIM and Footsie  small cap 
investments were suitable for him.
The adjudicator arrived at this conclusion because these types of investment have multiple 
significant risk factors.  There can be a lack of regulation, longevity issues,  potential 
insolvency, offshore  and currency exchange,  liquidity issues  and other factors  which could 
prevent investors  from accessing their funds.  She thought they were  higher risk investments.
Although Copia Wealth Management Ltd had explained the risks of making these 
investments in its report, she considered  just stating risks or giving  warnings did not make 
unsuitable advice  suitable. 
Both Copia Wealth Management Ltd and the SIPP  Administrator had confirmed  the 
management of Mr Ms portfolio was switched to Reyker Securities in 2017. However this 
was simply moving the investments in specie, so there was no review at that time of the 
underlying portfolio and the investments held remained  the same.
The adjudicator therefore upheld the complaint. 
Copia Wealth Management Ltd raised  further  points. It said that the portfolio was 
recommended and managed by an independent  portfolio manager, the portfolio was a 
balanced portfolio and it was SIPP compliant  with a 30 day liquid  portfolio.
It said the portfolio  manager failed to carry out its duty of care and ongoing due diligence, as 
it was their duty to continually monitor and provide suitable investments to fulfil the 
conditions of the portfolio.
The adjudicator considered the points raised by Copia Wealth  Management Limited.  She 
wasnt persuaded to change  her opinion. 
She thought  the risk warnings in the recommendation letter  made it clear the adviser was 
aware when the advice  was given what kind of investments could be chosen  for the portfolio. 
The adjudicator also reviewed the Managed Trading Account Investment Agreement,  which 
set out the terms  and conditions under which the portfolio manager operated  its
discretionary fund management  service. She noted that section 3 set out:
3.1 The Client acknowledges  that the IFA has given the client  advice and recommended
that the client invest into the Managed  Account.
3.2 The IFA has assessed the Clients attitude  and tolerance to risk as part of the advisory
process leading  to the Clients decision to invest in the Managed  Account.
On this basis she was satisfied the agreement  made  it clear that the responsibility for the
advice to invest the pension fund in the portfolio lay with the adviser, not with the investment 
manager.
Ref: DRN67117034As the complaint has not been resolved it has been  passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators findings.  
I note that on the October 2015 Fact Find it is recorded that Mr M wants  to consolidate  his 
pensions and take 25% tax free cash for home improvements. He wishes  to invest  what  
pension funds remain using a DFM. It is not noted  that Mr M wishes to retire or semi-retire 
but that he intends to keep on working.  His intended  retirement  date is noted as 65.
He is also recorded  as a Balanced risk investor  which is described as: 
The Balanced Investor may be somewhat concerned with short-term  losses and may shift to 
a more stable  option in the event of significant  losses. The safeties  of investment and return 
are typically  of equal importance to the Balanced Investor.
There is a letter dated 10 November 2015  addressed to Mr M in which the adviser sets out 
his recommendations.  This reflected what was set out in the Fact Find  that Mr M wished to 
consolidate his pensions and take 25% tax free cash. Also,  that he was a balanced risk 
investor (described in the same way as in the Fact Find).
It is mentioned that:
You do not intend on taking any more withdrawals  from your pension, you would like to 
invest the remaining  pot in a Medium risk approach and using an actively Managed  fund with 
a DFM gain potentially more growth  over the medium to long term.
The adviser went on to recommend  Mr M switch some of his pensions to a SIPP.  
In the appendices the adviser  set out his recommendation for the investment portfolio for Mr 
Ms pension fund.
He recommended the Broad Based Property  Portfolio Plus. This was described  as:
The investment team has an investment philosophy: to identify value in shares, driven by 
technical and fundamental analysis, including an active  share portfolio model; seek  out yield 
in bonds particular those bonds  which offer added  security  that of an asset backed lending  
nature and senior secured; sector  diversification,  seeking a balance  in times of a Risk on 
and a Risk off mode. The aim of the model portfolio is to capitalise on the semi-annual  yield 
credited from the fixed income security investments, coupled  with our active share selection 
in sector  diversification,  to deliver above  annual returns  over a 6 year term.
Through Smile Global  Management Broad Based Property Portfolio Plus Managed 
Accounts, the investment  team objective  is to achieve capital appreciation through  sourcing, 
identifying and investing in what they deem  to be dynamic  and entrepreneurial  listed  
Companies on the London  Stock Exchange, and the ICAP ISDX,  HMRC recognised  
exchange, companies we believe offer profit potential through  a non-leveraged, long term 
Ref: DRN67117035strategy. The strategy is in U.K. listed London Stock Exchange shares and Bonds quoted  on 
a Recognised  Investment  Exchange.
The current  Model  Portfolio allocates a percentage of the investment as shown below
Yield bearing instruments:  Asset Allocation  up to 80% into Yield  bearing  instruments, 
exchange listed, standard assets,  covering but not exclusively limited to:
. Commercial Development
. Property Development
. Short term bridging finance
. Short term property lending
Sector Diversification: Asset Allocation  of up to 20% into stocks in differing sectors  of the 
Footsie 100, 250 and AIM listed shares.  Sectors,  such as but not limited to: Services;  
Industrials; Consumers; Financials; Telecoms; Media and Technology; Resources. The 
active share portfolio  is balanced between Risk on and Risk off mode depending on the 
Investment Teams fundamental and technical  appraisal.
The investment strategy is based  upon Fundamental and/or Technical Analysis,  taking into 
account Global  and Geo-Political Events and market mood, risk on and risk off. Capital 
preservation is utilised  by strict trading discipline adhering to set risk reward  parameters 
based upon high risk.
And:
Investment Structure:
Suitability: Medium Risk
Structure: B.B.P.P.PIus  Individual Managed Account  via a SIPP, or via a direct  investment.
Regulator: U.K. Financial  Conduct Authority
Liquidity: Monthly
Dealing: At the managers discretion under a Power of Attorney (POA)
Currency: GBP
Annual Trading  Commission Fee: 1.5%
Monthly Performance Fee: 20% of positive returns after all costs
Minimum investment £20,000
(ISDX, AIM and Footsie small cap shares  may be less liquid than shares in Footsie 
100. By entering into transactions in non-readily realisable investments the market is 
limited or could  become  so. You may have difficulty selling  such an investment at a 
reasonable price and, in some circumstances  it may be difficult to sell it at any price. 
Do not invest in such  investments  unless you have carefully thought about  whether  
they are suitable for you).  (my emphasis)
There are a number of factsheets  about the investment portfolio that are provided for 
information purposes to the independent  financial adviser (here, Copia).  I have noted several 
sections from those  fact sheets:
From the Managed  Broad Based Property Portfolio  fact sheet: 
Ref: DRN67117036The investment team has an investment philosophy that is to identify, invest  and by doing 
so be part of the expected  growth in the broad penny shares listed stocks/bonds,  utilising 
fully the expertise of the professionals who run these  companies. By investing in these 
young dynamic entrepreneurial companies  we believe gives  us an edge as the decision and 
acquisition process  is greatly enhanced due to the key personal  involved, thereby 
maximising the potential  of the investments made.
And also:
Sector Diversification:  Asset Allocation of up to 20% into stocks in differing sectors of the 
U.K. stock market, i.e.: FTSE 100, 250 and AIM listed shares.
And:
(AIM and Footsie 350 shares may be less liquid than shares  in Footsie  100. By entering  into
transactions in non-readily  realisable  investments the market  is limited or could become so.
You may have difficulty selling such an investment  at a reasonable price and, in some
circumstances it may be difficult to sell it at any price. Do not invest in such investments 
unless you have carefully thought about whether they are suitable for you).
It is disputed by the parties whether  Mr M intended  to take further  sums  from his pension 
fund after he had taken  tax free cash.  The Fact Find and the recommendation letter do not 
set out such a need and in fact indicate that further  sums are not required in the immediate 
future. However,  I do note that Mr M did start to take out ad hoc sums. But even if this need 
or objective was not known to the adviser,  I do not believe the investment recommendation 
for the SIPP was likely suitable.  
As is indicated by the literature for the investment portfolio, the DFM manager has a very 
wide discretion as to what assets  can be chosen. That includes the ability to invest  a 
significant portion  of the portfolio in smaller company shares. As the literature for the 
portfolio clearly sets out, there could foreseeably be liquidity problems with such  assets and 
there may be no market  for them. Such investments  may well have a limited  track record  
and have a much higher risk of failure.  Effectively this might  result in them  becoming 
worthless. They would usually be described as higher risk investments.
I have not seen any evidence that Mr M had any history or experience of investing  in such 
shares or assets  or in fact any history of using discretionary  management.  He is not 
recorded as having any investments apart from fairly  modest pensions, with his savings 
placed in bank accounts. His attitude to risk suggests he is concerned with losses  and wants 
to take a medium degree of risk. Whilst I appreciate that the portfolio  also held more 
mainstream balancing investments I do not believe Mr M is likely an investor who would wish 
to place portions  of his money in the type of higher risk illiquid investment that could be 
chosen by the DFM. Or would wish to be exposed to that kind of investment by being placed 
in the DFM with its wide investment  mandate. On balance I believe the recommendation to 
invest in the DFM was unsuitable  for Mr M. 
Whilst Copia  says that it was the DFM manager that is liable for Mr Ms situation,  it seems to 
me that in Mr Ms case assets were chosen  which were within the parameters set out for the 
DFM and the parameters  set out in the literature of which  Copia was aware.  So Copia was 
aware such investments  could be made.  In any event, as discussed, Mr M should not have 
been recommended  the DFM and should  not have been exposed  to the risk of such 
investments.
Ref: DRN67117037I therefore uphold  the complaint. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
what should  Copia do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Copia must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Copia should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Copia  should pay into Mr M's current pension plan to increase  its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into his current pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection or allowance. 
If Copia is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Copia deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much  has been  taken off. Copia should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Broad 
Based 
Property 
Portfolio(partially)  
still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total date of 
investmentdate SIPP 
was switched 
to another 
provider8% simple  per 
year on the 
loss amount 
from date the 
Ref: DRN67117038Return  Index SIPP was 
switched to 
another 
provider  
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the illiquid investment that was held in the 
portfolio. So, the actual  value of that investment  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. 
Copia should  then take ownership of the illiquid  investment by paying  a commercial value 
acceptable to the SIPP provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.  The SIPP can then be closed.
If Copia is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Copia totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
SIPP fees
As I understand it the Lifetime SIPP could not be closed when Mr M switched the SIPP to 
another provider,  and still cannot be closed, because of the presence  of the illiquid  
investment. 
Ref: DRN67117039So in addition to the compensation set out above, Copia should pay an additional sum to Mr 
M equal  to any charges and fees applied to the Lifetime SIPP  from the date he switched  the 
SIPP to another  provider,  to the date of this final decision. That would be with the addition of 
8% simple  interest on each SIPP fee or charge  from the date it was paid until the date of this 
final decision. 
In addition, if Copia cannot take over ownership of the illiquid investment, Mr M will likely still 
be paying Lifetime SIPP fees in future  when  he otherwise would not have done. 
So if Copia cannot take over the illiquid investment,  then, to provide  certainty  to all parties,  I 
think its fair that Copia  pays Mr M an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five years worth  of 
SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees), or undertakes to cover  the fees that 
fall due during  the next five years.  This should provide a reasonable period for things to be 
worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, Copia may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking 
to give it the net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment  in that five year 
period, as well as any other payment  he may receive from any party as a result  of the 
investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive. Copia will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up this undertaking. If 
it asks Mr M to provide  an undertaking,  payment  of the compensation awarded by this 
decision may be dependent  upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Copia  wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  from the investment, it must agree to pay any further  future SIPP fees.  
If Copia fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr M should then have the option  of trying to cancel the 
investments to enable  the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, Copia is entitled to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr M of any claim Mr M 
may have  against  any third parties in relation to this pension switch  and investments. If 
Copia chooses  to take an assignment of rights, it must be affected before payment of 
compensation is made. Copia must  first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr M for his 
consideration and agreement. 
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Copia  Wealth Management Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Copia Wealth Management Ltd should provide  details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2020
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN671170310
Ref: DRN6711703