K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about a car he obtained using finance from Mercedes-Benz Financial  
Services UK Limited (MBFS). The first car was faulty and was replaced but he feels  he has 
lost out financially and he did not want to start a new contract.
background 
Mr L obtained a second-hand (ex-demo), 2015, car in June  2016.  The car developed  faults  
and spent a large  number  of days in the dealership,  after failed repairs  the dealership offered 
a brand new 2017 car as a replacement. The agreement  for the 2015  model  was unwound 
and his payments  for the 2017 model were set at the same monthly rate. The £500 deposit  
was refunded as a gesture of goodwill. He was also offered £150 as he tried to call MBFS 
but could not get through.
The adjudicator thought  that MBFS has done  all it could to put the problem right. It replaced 
the faulty car for a newer model  at no extra cost and refunded him the £500 deposit. She 
thought that MBFS  had acted reasonably in putting  things right. She did not uphold the 
complaint. Furthermore,  although MBFS didnt provide him with cosmetic insurance  on the 
new car, it refunded  him the £247.84 to ensure he wouldn't lose out financially.
She thought  that MBFS has done more  than this service would recommend and he is 
actually in a better position. Furthermore,  the offer of £150 made by the case handler for 
poor service received  is fair and reasonable. The adjudicator did not recommend that MBFS 
do anything more.
A second adjudicator looked  at the complaint and noted that the total amount due under the 
two agreements was roughly  the same despite  the fact that Mr L now has a better  car, 
Although Mr L was concerned that he paid a number of monthly payments of £400  to MBFS 
for a car he no longer  has and these should  be put towards the new agreement or be 
refunded, she felt MBFS was entitled to keep these  as he had the benefit of the car or a 
courtesy car. If he rejected the car he would have  had to take out a new agreement  
elsewhere.
She thought  the remedy was fair and reasonable.
Mr L remained unhappy and feels he has lost out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
adjudicators for the same reasons.
MBFS accept  the original car wasn't  of satisfactory  quality. As the adjudicator set out in her 
response when  a car isn't of satisfactory  quality,  there are usually three options to remedy 
this: repair  the car, replace the car, or allow the customer to reject the car so they can take 
out a new agreement elsewhere.  It appears  that Mr L agreed to a replacement,  MBFS put 
things right by replacing the car, it actually went further by replacing it with a newer model, at 
no additional  cost,  refunding the deposit  and the cosmetic insurance. To acknowledge the 
poor service MBFS also agreed to pay £150. 
Ref: DRN65566482I note that Mr L feels either  money  paid under the old agreement should be refunded or 
payments put towards the second  agreement, but Mr L did have use of the car or courtesy 
car and even if he had rejected the first car he would have  had to enter  into a new 
agreement for a car elsewhere. I am satisfied he has not lost out financially and no further  
payment is required.
In the circumstances it is not reasonable to expect MBFS to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  has agreed to pay Mr L £150  in recognition of 
its poor service and Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited should pay this sum to 
Mr L if not already  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Clare Hockney
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6556648