K820x#14complaint
Mr M1 and Mr M2 complain that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr M1 and Mr M2 took out a loan by phone application. At the same  time they also 
took out PPI  in Mr M1s name as the first named applicant  in the event Mr M1 couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and it cost around £6 a month.
BoS has provided records to show the loan account closed in 2003.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said Mr M1 chose to take out PPI and 
there was nothing to indicate it was wrong for BoS to have recommended it.
Because Mr M1 and Mr M2 disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr M1 didnt  have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this.
Mr M1 says he wasnt told PPI was added to the loan. But BoS has provided two pieces 
of paperwork from the time  the loan application form and the subsequent loan 
agreement. Looking at the loan application, I can see under the heading  Protecting  your 
payments there are two options   Yes and No  which  required one signature  to 
confirm agreement to take out PPI or to decline it. Mr M1 signed  the Yes  box to take it 
out.
And looking at the signed loan agreement form, this reflected the decision Mr M1 made 
in the loan application  it said here You advised  on your application form that you 
required Personal Loan Repayments Insurance It also separately set out the PPI 
monthly cost.
Because of this, Im satisfied BoS gave Mr M1 the option to take out PPI and he chose 
and agreed to take it out by completing  the required details on the loan application.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr M1 so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Ref: DRN67631292For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  (he 
was employed and in good health  at the time) and he seems to have  had a need for the 
cover. While Mr M1 says he had more  than six months sick pay, the policy  wouldve paid 
out alongside this and for longer if necessary. So given  Mr M1 was taking on an 
additional monthly financial commitment together with the fact the loan was secured on 
his and Mr M2s property, I dont think it was wrong  for BoS to have recommended  PPI. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr M1 about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
So this means  that BoS doesnt  need  to give back to Mr M1 and Mr M2 any of the money 
they paid for PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M1 and Mr M2 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6763129