K822xcomplaint
The estate  of the late Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a series 
of personal loans. 
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of my final decision.  In summary I explained that I was upholding Mr Ps 
complaint in part. 
I said that all interest  and charges on loans taken out by Mr P after December 2014 should 
be refunded and Barclays should pay 8% simple interest from the date that the loans were 
taken out to the date of settlement. I said that because I didnt think Barclays  had acted 
responsibly when  lending to Mr P from December 2014 onwards. I asked the executors and 
Barclays to let me know if they had anything to add. 
Barclays asked for clarification on the 8% interest  as, once the calculations had been run, 
there was still a negative  balance  on the account. Our adjudicator confirmed  to Barclays and 
the executors  that 8% interest would not be applicable  where  there was still a negative 
balance. 
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision  and wrote off the outstanding balances of the 
loans which  totalled  around £15 000. This offer was put to the executors who didnt accept it. 
They made a counter  offer suggesting Barclays paid all outstanding amounts, the amounts 
Id awarded in my provisional decision (not offset  against anything) and half of the principal 
amounts of all loans open since  the death  of Mr P. Barclays didnt agree to this. 
The executors also made  further representations about the findings in my provisional 
decision. In summary  they said:
 
Our service needs to take a holistic  approach to all the complaints were considering 
There is no mention of spread betting as an addiction or sophisticated investment 
strategy 
My summary of the complaint is watered  down  and the executors verbatim response  
should be published
The executors  should  have the opportunity to meet with me face to face to make their 
case
Loans taken  out before 2011 should  be taken into account  as there is a pattern of 
behaviour demonstrated  by Barclays which shows a disregard for the rules
They havent had access to all of the information provided to our service by Barclays
My assessment of spread betting  is misinformed  and incomplete for a number of 
reasons
Barclays lent money to Mr P to fuel his addiction to spread betting and lied about 
their knowledge  of his spread betting activity  Mr P didnt  benefit from the money
Ref: DRN67314822The principal amounts should be refunded  if this doesnt happen its unjust, unfair  
and contradicts the approach taken  by the courts and our service in other  cases
The decision should  state the executors arent bound  by it and no real monetary 
award has been made in recognition of the late Mr Ps losses
They want a fair settlement which reflects  Barclays unfair and unjust behaviour.  The 
open and transparent  position is that there is no real loss for Barclays  for their 
irresponsible behaviour
They want a sincere apology from Barclays. 
So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision and in a letter I dont think its necessary to meet 
with the executors. Our service is informal and I think  theres  enough evidence  for me to be 
able to make  a decision without a hearing.   
Im sorry  to hear that the executors feel Ive watered down their comments and responses. 
Whilst I havent specifically referred to each and every point in their detailed comments and 
responses I have taken all of the information  into account. I appreciate the executors want  
me to detail their verbatim response  but Ive summarised the key points theyve raised that I 
think are relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
The complaints do need to be dealt  with separately because they involve different legal 
entities. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, I have taken into account the wider 
circumstances of the late Mr P and Mrs P. I referred  to this in my provisional decision and it 
formed part of my findings.  
Barclays have agreed to write off Mr Ps outstanding debts. Im satisfied that the offer is fair. 
It goes beyond what I was intending to direct  as the debts  will be written off rather than 
reduced by a refund of the interest and charges.  
Ref: DRN67314823The further comments from the executors havent changed my thoughts about the outcome 
of this complaint  and I think the offer from Barclays is fair because: 
I dont think that its fair to direct Barclays to refund the charges and interest  to the 
executors directly or to refund them for the principal amounts.  Mr P spent the money 
he borrowed and that money is owed to Barclays. The amount owed is around 
£15 000 which is a significant amount of money. So I think it is fair the refund is 
applied to the account to cover the outstanding  balance. As Barclays has agreed to 
write off the remaining  balance  the executors wont need to make any further  
payments from the estate  which  I think is fair in the circumstances. If the executors 
dont want to accept  this offer they can reject  my decision
It is clear Mr P used some of the money for spread  betting  which  is a legitimate 
activity. And, it seems most likely this formed part of Mr Ps wider  approach  to his 
finances. So Im not persuaded  by the representations that Mr P didnt have the 
benefit of the money
Its not for me to make a specific finding about whether Mr P was a gambling addict. 
My role is to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case  
taking into account any relevant  law and industry guidance - and to decide whether a 
business acted  fairly  and reasonably.  Ive explained in my provisional decision why I 
think there should have been  warnings signs to Barclays that Mr P was experiencing 
financial difficulties. That included Mr Ps spread  betting history and the wider 
financial circumstances I set out in my provisional decision
I explained why I didnt think I could consider the lending  which  took place before 
2011. Whilst I appreciate that the executors would like me to take that into account I 
remain persuaded that its outside  the relevant  time limits to bring  a complaint for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional  decision
I dont think its appropriate for me to direct  that Barclays issue a sincere apology in 
this case. What amounts to a sincere apology is often subjective  and I think  its in 
everyones interests to draw a line under these events and allow all parties to move 
forward. 
putting things right
Barclays need to put things right by writing off the loans taken out after December 2014 in 
line with the offer they made to the estate. This goes  beyond what I directed in my 
provisional decision and Im not directing  Barclays to do anything  further  to put things right. 
my final decision
Im upholding the estate  of the late Mr Ps complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK Plc and 
direct them to put things  right in the way Ive outlined above.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of the late Mr P to accept or reject my 
decision before  20 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67314824COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
The estate of the late Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank  Plc mis-sold him a series of personal 
loans. 
background
Our service has been  asked  to consider a number of complaints relating to the late Mr P and his wife. 
This complaint is about  several personal  loans  that Mr P took out. However, Ive taken into account  all 
of the information Ive been  provided  with in relation to each of the complaints before  making my 
decision. 
Mr P applied for eight personal loans between 2011 and 2016. One was cancelled within the 
cancellation period and four were repaid early.  Mr P had three  outstanding  loans, totalling around £13 
000, when he died. He also had other products  linked  to Barclays which  had an outstanding balance  
and his total level of debt, including the loans, was around £25 000. 
Barclays looked into the loans that theyd provided to Mr P. They  acknowledged that he took out a 
number of loans but they didnt think that theyd  been  mis-sold. They pointed out that Mr P had made 
the repayments and either repaid the loans  on time or early. Barclays confirmed  they had no record of 
Mr P being unwell and, having contacted Mr Ps relationship  manager, they were unaware of any 
problems relating  to his health and vulnerability. 
A complaint  was made to our service  on the basis that Barclays had continued to lend money to Mr P 
despite knowing that his debt levels continued to increase and that he wasnt in good health. 
Our adjudicator looked  into what  had happened. She didnt think that Barclays  had mis-sold the loans. 
She concluded that the bank statements  indicated that there was a substantial and regular income  
into Mr Ps accounts. And, she thought that the evidence  suggested that Mr P had managed his 
accounts well and that hed been able to discuss  information  about  the loans  with Barclays before 
taking them out. She didnt see that there was any evidence to suggest that Mr P had told Barclays 
about his health problems and she thought that the available information suggested  the borrowing 
was affordable. She noted the concerns that had been raised about  Mr Ps use of spread betting,  but 
she thought that this was the way that Mr P chose  to conduct his affairs. 
A lengthy partial response was provided  by the executors, including a proposed offer to resolve the 
complaint informally. Barclays considered the response and said that they didnt want  to accept the 
offer. So a further full response was submitted  on Mr Ps behalf. In summary it says:
The loans were progressively amalgamated  and increased by Barclays before the liability was 
transferred to Mr Ps wife
Barclays didnt do enough to ensure  that Mr P could  afford the loans or whether they were  
suitable for him
Mr P was unwell but was treated as if he was healthy  Barclays were aware of this
Mr Ps spread  betting activity, and addiction, hasnt been  properly considered. He didnt make 
a profit from it
The notes that Barclays have provided  contain errors, such as typographical errors, and were 
a copy and paste  job 
The estate hasnt had sight of all the information that our service  has relied on 
Ref: DRN67314825Barclays lent money to Mr P before 2011 
The income  that the adjudicator  has relied  on isnt reliable, particularly  the conclusions that 
she reached about the impact  of spread betting  on Mr Ps income 
Barclays didnt verify the information  about Mr Ps income or undertake any kind of risk 
assessment 
The lending  wasnt in Mr Ps interests 
The fact that the accounts were well managed doesnt mean that the lending was responsible. 
So I need to make a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The executors have asked  to speak to me about the complaints theyve raised. But I dont  think thats 
necessary in the circumstances of this case. Ive received  very detailed submissions in relation to all 
three complaints and Im satisfied theres enough information for me to make a decision based on the 
available evidence. Im also aware that the executors feel that theyve not had access to all of the 
information that our service has considered. The adjudicator  has shared with the executors the 
information shes  relied on when reaching  her decision. 
loans before  2011  
I also note that the executors referred to lending  that took place before  2011. Our rules say that we 
cant look at a complaint if it was made more than six years after the event complained  of; or if later, 
three years from when the customer  was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for 
complaint. The rules  do allow me to look at complaints made out of time if the failure to comply with 
the time limit was as a result  of exceptional  circumstances
In this case, the events complained about are the loans  which were  issued more than six years  ago. 
And I think Mr P would have known that he had cause to complain  at that point if he was unhappy  
with the lending. Ive not seen evidence  of exceptional circumstances so Im not intending to consider 
the lending made before  2011.  
was the lending irresponsible after 2011? 
There werent set checks that Barclays had to complete before deciding whether  to lend money  to Mr 
P. But they did have a responsibility to carry out proportionate  checks  taking into account a range of 
factors such  as the size of the loan,  the lending  history and what they already knew about  Mr P. There  
also arent set measures  for Barclays to take if they thought  that Mr P was experiencing financial 
difficulties. But they should have  treated him positively and sympathetically if they became  aware that 
he was having money worries. The relevant industry rules and guidance point to a number of factors 
which might  indicate that a customer is experiencing financial difficulties for example, not being able 
to meet repayments or entering into a debt management plan. 
Ref: DRN67314826Having taken  into account  the relevant  rules, industry guidance and legislation Im not persuaded  that 
Barclays did act responsibly when lending  to Mr P from December 2014 onwards. I say that because: 
This was the sixth loan that Mr P had taken out with Barclays  since 2011 (although one was 
cancelled). His wife had also taken out three personal  loans during that period  including 
taking out a loan for over £30 000 in October 2014. She used that money to pay off a loan 
that Mr P had previously  taken  out and Barclays  knew that. But in a matter of months Mr P 
was borrowing again. He borrowed  £7500 in December 2014,  £10 900 in June 2015 and a 
further £7500 in January  2016. So he was borrowing large amounts of money  shortly after his 
wife had cleared his previous debt;
Even a brief look at Mr Ps accounts over this period would have indicated  that he was 
increasingly using his current  account to participate in spread  betting. This is a legitimate 
activity and something that Mr P was entitled to do. But the accounts  for the tax year of 
2013/2014 show a significant increase in the amount  of money he was losing as there was 
nearly £225  000 spent on this activity with a significant  loss incurred. In the following tax 
years there were  also significant losses; 
There were  also credits  from spread betting but Ive taken into account the wider context and 
pattern of borrowing that Ive outlined  above, including  Mr Ps increasing reliance  on credit.  
His income and outgoings, apart from the spread betting,  suggest that he would have been 
able to live comfortably  within his means. I also think Barclays was on notice about this as 
there was reference  within Barclays  notes  which indicated he was involved in the stock 
market. But this doesnt  seem  to have been taken into account  despite the large  volume of 
transactions showing  on his accounts and that he appeared to have spent  around £40 000 in 
savings since he took out the first loan in 2011;  
Mr P said on a number of occasions that he was borrowing money to clear  his credit card 
debt as hed miscalculated it. But hed used  this explanation a number of times over the 
years. Around the same  time that Mrs P took out the £30 000 loan Mr P had made  enquiries 
about a personal loan (which  was later cancelled as Mrs P was able to get a cheaper rate) 
and he gave that reason  again.  I think that by December  2014 he was demonstrating an 
increased reliance on credit and was relying  on the same reasons for wanting to borrow more;  
I think this ought to have prompted a more  detailed assessment of Mr Ps circumstances and 
whether this was the real reason that he was trying to borrow  more money. A quick look at Mr 
Ps credit  card statements would have shown  that whilst he did clear his credit  card balance  
using loans he typically used his credit card to spread bet and would often increase his 
balance again within a relatively short  period. By December 2014 his limit was over £11 000. 
So I dont think the checks that were carried out were proportionate given  Mr Ps borrowing 
history and overall circumstances;  
I also note that Mr Ps credit card account started to have default  notices from around January 
2015. I think its most likely  that information would have been recorded  on his credit file at the 
time he applied for the loan in June 2015. At this time he said that he wanted to clear  his 
credit card, which  he did. But he took the card back up to its limit within a few months and 
defaulted again before  he borrowed more  money in January 2016. So I think that this pattern 
of behaviour was a further sign that Mr P was starting to struggle with his finances;
In October  2014,  at the time Mrs P entered into the large loan agreement, Barclays recorded  
that Mr and Mrs Ps income was around  £50 000. So, according  to the information Barclays 
had, they had already borrowed around half their annual income when  Mrs P entered into the 
agreement in October 2014.  But Barclays went on to lend Mr P over £25 000 after that point 
in time which increased their overall borrowing to around the level of their recorded  household 
income. And Barclays should have also been aware  from Mr Ps credit file that he had a credit 
card with a limit of over £11 000 which  was frequently using; 
Ref: DRN67314827I accept  that Mr P was spread betting at the time that he took out the loans between 2011 and 
December 2014. At that point in time there were larger gaps  between  the loans and Mr Ps 
loans didnt run concurrently. So I dont think there were significant  warning  signs at that point 
in time.  But by October 2014 Mrs P had taken  out the large loan to repay two earlier loans 
and Mr P needed to borrow money again  virtually  straight away. And by the time of his death 
he had three loans  which all overlapped with Mrs Ps loan for over £30 000; 
I think that if Barclays had carried out more proportionate checks  theyd have realised  that the 
lending was being used  to fund Mr Ps spread  betting and that was the main reason that Mr P 
needed to borrow money. I dont  think that the lending was affordable or responsible for the 
reasons Ive outlined above; 
I dont  think that its fair for Barclays to write off the debt. Mr P had the benefit of that money 
and I think its fair that its paid back. But I think that all interest and charges on loans taken 
out by Mr P after December 2014 should be refunded. They should  also pay 8% simple 
interest from the date that the loans  were taken out to the date of settlement. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mr Ps complaint about Barclays Bank  Plc. The estate of the late 
Mr P and Barclays should let me know before 18 October 2018 if they have any more information 
theyd like to add. 
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6731482