K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complained  because  Landmark  Mortgages Limited  stopped the sale of their 
property going  through.  Landmark later possessed and then sold the property for a lower 
amount.
This meant that the shortfall on their mortgage, which Mr and Mrs N still owe, is higher than
it would  have been if their sale had gone ahead.
Background
In April 2017, Mr N became seriously ill, and was hospitalised. He was self-employed, and 
couldnt work. Mrs N was registered  disabled and also had a number of health problems.
Mr and Mrs Ns family  helped  as much as they could, but Mr and Mrs N couldnt  keep  up
their mortgage payments.
Mr and Mrs N spoke to Landmarks hardship  team. They realised they wouldnt be able to 
keep up the mortgage, so they put their property up for sale.  They  had an offer for £164,000.
Mr and Mrs N spoke to Landmark  again, because they owed the lender more than this. They
said that Landmark told them they could  apply for Landmark to cover their estate  agent  and
solicitors fees. Mr and Mrs N accepted  the offer in March 2018.
But Landmark wrote  to Mr and Mrs N on 11 May,  refusing to allow the sale to go through.  It
had asked for a number  of documents including bank statements, and it said that the reason
for refusing to let the sale go through  was that it thought the bank statements showed that
Mr and Mrs N hadnt been prioritising  their mortgage payments.
Mr N wrote to Landmark on 15 May,  asking  for the decision to be reviewed. He explained
that his bank statements were confusing, because many of his clients prepaid, meaning that
this advance-payment  money had to be refunded when  he was hospitalized  and couldnt
provide the services. Mr N had also needed a lease  car for his work, which he had to stop. 
Relatives had managed to buy and insure a small replacement  car for Mr and Mrs N  and
that money too had gone through the bank accounts  and led to a misleading impression.
Mr Ns letter also set out that, with the benefits which  Mr and Mrs N would  be getting, they
hoped to be able to pay £50 a month to the lender. So they asked Landmark  to review its
decision to refuse permission to sell their property,  so it didnt increase their personal  debt.
Landmark refused.  A director from Mr and Mrs Ns estate agent phoned Landmark, setting
out her experience and saying that she felt £164,000 was the best price obtainable.  But
Landmark said she had no authority  to discuss the account, and refused to deal with her.
Landmark obtained a possession order on 18 June. It sold the property for £155,000 and
wrote to Mr and Mrs N on 22 October  to say the shortfall which  they owed was £22,048.80.
Mr and Mrs N complained. In its final response, Landmark said that when  selling a property
in possession, it didnt  have the luxury  of time. It said that while a property was waiting to
be sold, interest, fees, and the cost of managing the property, were all building up. It said it
had taken advice  from qualified surveyors and in fact the estate agent had suggested an
asking price lower than had been  achieved.
Mr and Mrs N contacted  this service.
Ref: DRN62862082The adjudicator upheld Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.  He said Landmark should have allowed
the offer, which Mr and Mrs N had received, to go ahead.  This would have left a much
smaller shortfall  for them to pay. He said there  was no obvious reason  why Landmark had
declined the sale  especially considering Mr and Mrs Ns difficult circumstances. He said
that Landmark should recalculate and reduce the shortfall figure, based on the amount owed
when the property was actually sold, with the amount  which had been owed at the time when
Landmark refused  to allow  the £164,000 sale to proceed. And it should pay Mr and Mrs N
£500 for the distress and inconvenience  the possession and sale had caused them.
Landmark refused.  It said it had allowed  a number of payment concessions  before going to
possession. And in regard to the refusal to accept the sale for £164,000, Landmark said that
Mr and Mrs Ns bank statements showed  around  £18,000 through  the account, but theyd
only made one mortgage  payment. Mr and Mrs N had also said they were  going to be paying
rent of £475 a month  but if theyd  paid this towards their mortgage there  wouldnt  have
been a shortfall.  It also said that if they were  able to pay this amount of rent, they hadnt
needed the payment concessions Landmark  had given them. And there was no guarantee
the £164,000 sale would  have gone  through.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue in this complaint is whether or not Landmark acted  fairly  and reasonably  when
it declined to allow the £164,000 sale to go ahead in May 2018. I considered  that it didnt.
Landmarks financial priority  was to recover the money which  it had lent Mr and Mrs N, or as
much of that money  as possible. I could see no reason why letting Mr and Mrs N go ahead
with this sale would have been  incompatible with this aim. For example, there was no 
evidence that Landmark had had professional  advice that it might  get more  than £164,000 
from any sale in possession. And on the contrary,  it had just the opposite  evidence from a 
director of Mr and Mrs Ns estate agent, who told Landmark on 22 May that shed worked 
locally for 16 years and that another property in the same street  had been  put on the market 
for significantly less. I appreciated that the Landmark couldnt  give information to this 
individual, for data protection reasons. And that estate agent  would  have been  in line for 
commission, so she wasnt an unbiased source of information. But there was nothing  to 
show that Landmark took its own soundings  about whether or not this warning, based  on 
local knowledge, was likely to be correct, before taking the decision to refuse.
I considered what Landmark  gave as its reasons for declining the sale. It said that this was 
because Mr and Mrs Ns bank statements showed they hadnt been prioritising their
mortgage payments.  I looked at what Mr and Mrs N have said about the reasons that 
quite a lot of money was going  through their account   the fact that clients for the type of
Mr Ns self-employed business  paid in advance, so this wasnt really  their money; and that
family help with a small car also went through the bank. Mr N had provided details of the
clients he had to refund,  and I accepted  what he said about  this. I also accepted  Mr and Mrs 
Ns evidence about their unfortunate medical  situations, and that the car money had been 
given by family, who themselves had limited financial resources.
But the key point about the bank statements was that, whatever had gone on in the past, 
what would  have been reasonable was for Landmark to base its decision about the 
Ref: DRN62862083£164,000 offer on whatever would  have been  financially  best for both the lender and 
consumer.
I recognised that it was correct that the £164,000 offer might  not have gone through.  But 
thats true of any property offer. Looking at what was more  likely, I considered  it was more 
likely than not that it would have gone  ahead. That was because  the potential  purchasers 
already had a cash deposit and a mortgage  decision in principle.
So I considered that Landmark did not act fairly towards Mr and Mrs N when it declined to let 
the £164,000 offer proceed.
I went on to consider compensation. We consider compensation  in two parts: financial loss, 
and compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Looking first at financial  loss, I found that Landmark should  recalculate the shortfall balance
which Mr and Mrs N owe. This calculation should be based on the balance  that they owed
when the £164,000 sale might reasonably have been expected to go through.  Mr N notified 
Landmark of the offer on 20 March 2018.  So I considered a reasonable estimate for a
completion date, if it had been allowed  to go ahead,  might be 30 June 2018. So I considered  
that Landmark should recalculate the shortfall as at that date, on the basis that £164,000 
would have been the sale proceeds.
For clarity,  I set out that this meant that none of the possession  costs  legal costs,  
possession admin  fees,  or other possession charges  incurred after 20 March 2018 should 
be part of what Mr and Mrs N owed. There would have been  no need for a possession 
hearing or all the costs  associated with possession, if Landmark had agreed to let the 
£164,000 sale go through.
I went on to consider compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused to
Mr and Mr N by Landmarks decision to decline the £164,000 sale offer. I found that this 
upset was considerable. Its a very different proposition  to sell ones property, from going 
through the stressful  process of a possession case.  And I bore in mind that Mr and Mrs N 
both had significant health issues at the time, which made this upset particularly  traumatic  
for them. There was frustration that after all their efforts to sell, and despite  family doing as
much as they possibly  could, Landmark  just wasnt listening. So I considered that £500 
would fairly  reflect the distress  and inconvenience caused.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs N accepted  the provisional decision.
Landmark said it partially agreed  with my findings. In summary, it said that:
-it was willing to waive half the shortfall amount but not the whole amount;
-it wanted to reach an amicable agreement with Mr and Mrs N for repaying the 
remaining shortfall debt;
-it was willing to pay £500 compensation for distress  and inconvenience;
-it wasnt willing to remove fees,  which would remain  on the account. 
Landmark explained its reasons. It said there  was no evidence  to confirm the £164,000 sale 
would have completed, and it thought  it was more likely that it wouldnt have done.  It 
believed £164,000 was above market value. It recognised that Mr and Mrs Ns buyers had 
Ref: DRN62862084an offer in principle, but pointed out that offers in principle are made at the start of the 
process, before knowing the market price of a property. Landmark also said that a cheaper  
property came onto the market in the same  road,  so it thought  Mr and Mrs Ns buyers would 
have asked for a reduction. And when Landmark  itself had, later,  marketed the property, the 
original buyers had been approached but were no longer interested.
Landmarks reason  for refusing to waive  the fees was that Mr and Mrs N had opted for 
voluntary surrender of the property  rather than possession.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions.
I note that Landmark  has said the £164,000  offer might not have gone  through.  All property 
transactions tend to be uncertain,  and it might not have gone  through. But it might have 
done. And that would  have been  in the interests  both of Mr and Mrs N, and Landmark. 
I have carefully considered the reasons Landmark  put forward  for why the sale might  not, in 
practice, actually have gone through to completion at that price. We cant know  what would 
have happened, because  Landmark prevented the sale. But I find that none of Landmarks 
reasons is a convincing reason for refusing to allow the sale to try to go through.
I note that Landmark  has told us that what eventually happened was a voluntary surrender 
rather than a possession.  This should  mean  that the fees charged to the account were lower  
than they might otherwise have been. But its not a reason for refusing to waive  whatever 
fees were charged  to the account  as a result  of stopping the sale which  Mr and Mrs N had 
agreed. And Landmark did go ahead and obtain a possession hearing, after refusing to allow 
the sale to go through.  This would  have associated costs, which I consider Mr and Mrs N 
shouldnt have to pay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  Landmark  Mortgages Limited to:
-recalculate the amount of shortfall on Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage. This should be
based on the balance at 30 June  2018, reduced by a hypothetical sale price  of
£164,000. For clarity,  this balance figure  should not include the legal and other costs 
relating to the possession hearing and voluntary  surrender, which  were  subsequently 
charged to the account;
- pay Mr and Mrs N £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused
them through its refusal to allow the £164,000 sale offer to proceed,  at a time when 
they were both suffering from ill-health.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020
Ref: DRN62862085Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6286208