K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs M took out on a store card account in August 1995. 
It was added  to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
I think FICL  made Mrs M aware that she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because FICL  has given  us a copy of the store  card application form 
from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented 
as optional. Mrs M signed on the application  form to say she consented to the information  
contained in it. So I think this reflected what she wanted. Had Mrs M not wanted the PPI she 
could have completed the application  with the PPI section left blank or by ensuring the no box 
was ticked in that part of the form.
Mrs M has questioned whether the tick in the yes box is hers.  I cant be sure what happened 
at the time of sale when this application form was completed by the parties, but based  on what 
I know of how sales were  conducted and without further information to support what  Mrs M is 
saying, I cannot  safely conclude anything other than the form demonstrates  a fair reflection of 
what Mrs M wanted at that time (and she signed at the bottom of the application agreeing  to 
have the card and PPI.)
So, on balance,  I think Mrs M was aware the policy was optional and she agreed to take it 
out, knowing  it was something she could say no to.
This application was made by Mrs M completing an application in a store. So because  of 
this, I dont think a recommendation was made by FICL. So FICL didnt have to check  if the 
policy was suitable  for her. But it still needed  to make sure it gave Mrs M enough information 
to make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have  
been. So I need to consider if Mrs M would have acted differently and not bought the policy,  
Ref: DRN62311982if better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think better  information  
wouldve led her to act differently.
Mrs M has told us she had other  means  to repay the monthly repayment on the card such  as 
6 months full and 6 months half sick pay. But this policy would have paid out in addition to 
any provisions Mrs M would receive.  I think the PPI could have been useful to her in that her 
store card payments would be met. It also would have provided additional cover if Mrs M lost 
her job. I also couldnt see any significant or limiting  terms that would have affected Mrs Ms 
decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mrs Ms decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have  already  
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ms comments,  but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6231198