K822xcomplaint
Miss J complains  about the length of time taken for Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to 
release the balance of funds in her account  to her.
background
Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  trading as Cashplus blocked Miss Js account in 
October 2018 and it requested identification documents  from her. Miss J said she sent these 
on many  occasions but it wasnt  until February  2019 that funds  were  released to her.
Miss J told us that she wasnt able to access the funds in her account  during this time. She 
had approximately  £800 in her account  and she says she had to borrow money  from friends 
and relatives to pay her bills and this was very stressful.
Miss J complained to Cashplus. It apologised that she didnt receive a cheque  within  the 30 
day timeframe  it had advised and it paid £30 compensation. Miss J isnt happy with this 
amount because it doesnt  cover the cost of her posting the documents to Cashplus many 
times. She also says that she never received  the cheque Cashplus sent to her. Cashplus 
eventually sent her a bank transfer  and she doesnt understand why it didnt do this in the 
first place.
When our investigator looked  into Miss Js complaint  she concluded that Cashplus hadnt 
treated her fairly. She thought Miss J had to chase Cashplus to review  the identification 
documents shed  sent. She also thought Miss J had explained a number of times the 
urgency of accessing her funds and that she had bills to pay. She didnt think Cashplus had 
done enough to review  her documents more quickly after shed sent them  on 7 December 
2018.
To put matters right she recommended that Cashplus should  pay an additional £120 to 
compensate her for the stress and inconvenience suffered due to the delays.
Cashplus disagrees with the investigators  view and its asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
It said that although Miss J had chased Cashplus to review her documents it had to treat all 
customers fairly and review documents in the order in which they are received. It also says 
that when Miss J phoned to say she hadnt  received  her cheque  on 18 January 2019 this 
was still within the 30 day time period  due to the Christmas  period.  When more than 30 
days had passed,  it arranged a transfer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cashpluss customer notes show that in mid August 2018 Miss J notified  it of her change  of 
address. Cashplus  asked her to provide  two forms of proof  of address and one form of proof  
of identification.  Cashplus provided  a template of the letter it sent to Miss J towards the end 
of August  2018  which set out the identification and address documents  it would accept. The 
letter also explained that her account would be closed  if the documents werent  received 
within 60 days.
At the end of October  2018 Cashplus blocked  Miss Js account  as it hadnt received the 
documents requested. Miss J was told that if she wanted a cheque for the balance of the 
Ref: DRN66640542funds in her account  she would  need  to provide one proof of identification and two proofs of 
address.
The customer notes suggest that Miss J sent her documents to Cashplus around the time of 
her call to Cashplus in early November 2018 - when she asked if her documents had been 
received.
By mid November 2018 Cashplus accepted Miss Js proof of identification but it explained  
that the proof of address information shed sent wasnt acceptable. I cant say Cashplus 
treated Miss J unfairly in rejecting her proof of address documents because the information 
Ive seen shows Cashplus wrote  to her towards  the end of August 2018 to explain the 
identification and proof of address documents it would accept.
The notes suggest  Miss J sent further proof of address documents  and she rang Cashplus 
on 3 December 2018 to see if theyd been received and she also explained that she needed 
the funds in her account to pay her bills. She called again a few days  later and again  
explained that she needed the funds in her account  to pay bills. Cashplus confirmed to her 
that her documents were  received on 7 December  2018.
Cashplus reviewed her documents  on 17 December 2018. She was told shed be sent a 
cheque for the balance  of funds in her account and she was given a 30 day timeframe for 
this. On 18 January  2019 as Miss J hadnt received the cheque she contacted  them to 
complain and it wasnt until early  February 2019 that it arranged a bank  transfer for the 
balance of funds  in her account.
I think Cashplus took too long to review  the documents especially as it was still possible that 
it could reject them after theyd been  reviewed. I think Miss J did what  she could to make 
Cashplus aware of the urgency of accessing  her funds and I think  it should have done  more 
to prioritise the review of her documents given what shed told them  and the number of calls 
she made to them.
I accept that Cashplus  has an obligation  to treat its other customers  fairly but I dont think 
that would  prevent it from triaging its customers and prioritising those customers with more 
pressing financial  need.
Cashplus confirmed in its final response that after itd reviewed her documents it failed to 
process her cheque within the 30 day timeframe it had advised. It agreed to pay £30 by way 
of compensation  but I dont think this sufficiently  reflects the impact the delay had on her.
Its not clear why Miss J didnt receive the cheque sent by Cashplus but I think that once 
she phoned on 18 January 2019  to say she hadnt received it I think  it should have done 
more to expedite  the payment of the funds to her particularly  because by this time Miss J 
had explained  that she also needed to pay her rent. It wasnt until the beginning of February 
2019 that the funds were released to her so I dont think  Cashplus treated her fairly.
To put things right, I think Cashplus should pay £120 in addition to the £30 already paid 
as compensation  for the stress and inconvenience  caused to her as a result  of its 
delays.
Ref: DRN66640543my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Advanced Payments Solutions 
Limited to pay £150 compensation to Miss J save insofar as any part of this award has 
already been paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6664054