K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited delayed the transfer  of his pension  
fund, which  caused  financial  loss.
background
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 3 March 2020.  A copy is attached at 
Appendix A, and forms part of this final decision.
Both parties  have responded  to my provisional  decision. 
Mr W said, in summary,  that he still thought the transfer shouldve been completed  by 23 
January 2019.  He anticipated that using the revised  date of 8 February 2019 would be 
adverse to him, but he hadnt been  able to recalculate the figures.
Mr W also had concerns  about the suggested  tax treatment of any potential loss. In support 
of this, he said that payment into the SIPP wouldnt be possible due to lifetime  allowance 
protection issues.
He said it would therefore need  to be paid to him, but as he didnt intend to take any income 
from the plan, and it would most likely be passed  to his beneficiaries in the event of his 
death, there should be no deduction for notional tax on the prospective income.
Our investigator confirmed my understanding that,  as Mr W was in his seventies, if he lived 
beyond age 75 the pension pot would be paid to his beneficiaries net of their marginal rate of 
tax. And so she enquired as to whether Mr W had any health issues which  might  affect  this.
Mr W said that the quantification of any tax on his possible  death beyond 75 was impossible, 
given the range of nominated beneficiaries  and their various  tax paying status.
Mr W also said that he was generally good  health  for his age, but had slightly high blood 
pressure  controlled by medication - and was being  tested for diabetes.
Mr W cited two legal points  which was that the Gourley principle indicated  that there 
should be no deduction as the compensation wasnt for the purpose of replacing lost income.  
And that any tax liability upon his death  after age 75 would  be of the beneficiaries. Any 
notional deduction  for tax would need to be in relation to his own liability to tax.
Phoenix Life didnt  agree with my provisional findings. It said, in summary:
it didnt consider it had taken  too long to deal with Mr Ws transfer request when he 
first contacted it in December 2018. It said it couldnt  process  anything  until it 
received what it needed  from the SIPP provider. Phoenix Life assumed Mr W had 
sent to it copies of the documents the SIPP provider needed.  Mr W only realised 
what hed done on 4 January 2019, and Phoenix Life sent what  the SIPP provider 
needed on 9 January.  
it disputed that it had told the SIPP provider  to send one of the documents to a 
different Phoenix  Life office.
it couldnt process the transfer until the SIPP provider confirmed it knew the policy 
was under trust.  Phoenix Life accepted that once it received  the documents on 1 
Ref: DRN67341502February 2019, it shouldve contacted the SIPP  provider within ten working days to 
get the confirmation it needed. The transfer process  wouldve then completed  by 15 
February 2019.
the transfer amount value on 8 February 2019  was the same  as the amount 
transferred on 21 February 2019.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ws disappointment with my view on the likely chronology here,  had things 
been done in a timely fashion.  But I maintain  that this seems  reasonable for the reasons set 
out in my provisional  decision.
As to the tax treatment of a payment  if it cant be made to his SIPP,  Ive noted Mr Ws 
comments about being unlikely to take an income,  and just allowing the pension  to pass to 
his beneficiaries in the event of his death. But Mr W is in his early seventies and has 
confirmed that he has no serious life limiting factors. As such, assuming that Mr W will live 
beyond age 75, even if he takes no income  his pension pot would be taxed at the 
beneficiaries marginal income  tax rate. 
I agree  that there is much uncertainty  here, as explained by Mr W. But the situation remains 
that Mr W could,  if he wished,  take income  from his plan. Furthermore, it could be the case  
that the scheme trustees  determine that a basic  rate or higher  rate tax payer (for example 
Mrs W) should receive either  the entirety or most of the lump sum.
 For clarity,  Im aware of the Gourley principle  this informs the approach  taken by this 
service in terms of notional tax deductions.  But whilst we have regard  for the relevant law, 
were not bound by it. And I think its reasonable in this case  to fairly reflect  the likely tax 
treatment of the redress sum, if it had been paid from a pension plan. 
Ordinarily, wed make  an assumption as to the income tax position of the complainant. But 
here, as Mr W has said that he wont be taking an income (although  I cant in any case be 
certain that this will be the case), I think its reasonable to then consider the tax treatment of 
that redress sum if paid to the beneficiaries.
Therefore, my view is that the notional deduction  for tax at basic rate should still apply.
Regarding Phoenix  Lifes response, it says it couldnt do anything about  the transfer until it 
received everything  it needed from the SIPP provider. Mr W didnt realise until 4 January 
2019 hed sent one of the documents the SIPP provider  to Phoenix Life in error. Phoenix Life 
says it thought the document hed sent was a copy.  
Ive noted what  Phoenix  Life has said about what happened between 19 December 2018 
and 9 January  2019. But I consider it wouldve  been  reasonable  for Phoenix Life to realise 
that one of the documents Mr W had sent to it in error was required by the SIPP provider. 
Had it done so, I still think the transfer process couldve properly started  by 7 January 2019.
Ref: DRN67341503Ive also noted  what Phoenix Life has said about  instructions to the SIPP  provider to send 
one of the documents to a different Phoenix  Life office. Mr W has provided  a screenshot 
from the SIPP provider  of the electronic communication system that I understand is used by 
both Phoenix Life and the SIPP provider.  This does record a requirement to send information 
to a different  Phoenix Life office.  
So I remain  of the view that Phoenix  Life shouldve  clarified what  was required rather  sooner 
than it did. That means I still think the transfer  shouldve completed by 8 February 2019.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in this and my attached  provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold the complaint. Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should undertake the calculation as 
set out in the attached  provisional decision and pay any compensation due accordingly. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67341504APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr W complains  that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited delayed the transfer of his pension fund,  which 
caused financial loss.
background
Mr W had a self-employed retirement plan with Phoenix Life. Towards the end of 2018  he wanted to 
transfer the fund to his self invested personal pension  (SIPP), to take advantage of a temporary  dip in 
the stock market.
But there were delays  in transferring the fund to Mr Ws SIPP provider. Mr W considered the transfer 
shouldve completed no later than 23 January 2019. His SIPP provider  didnt receive the money  until 
21 February 2019 and reinvestments were completed by the end of that month. Mr W says the 
movement in price between  23 January  and the dates of investment cost him over £6,000.
Phoenix Life accepted it had caused some delay  in completing the transfer. If the relevant  paperwork 
had been dealt with appropriately, it considered  the transfer wouldve completed by 15 February 
2019. It said it was willing to consider any loss Mr W mightve suffered on this basis, and it also paid 
£100 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator didnt consider Phoenix Life was responsible for all of the delays involved in the 
transfer. But she found  that it was responsible for delays  from 1 February 2019.  She was satisfied that 
once  Phoenix Life had all the information it needed, its ten working  day timescale for completing  the 
transfer was a reasonable amount of time to complete  the transfer. So if Phoenix Life had acted  
promptly from 1 February, the investigator concluded Mr Ws transfer wouldve been completed by 15 
February.
The investigator said Phoenix Life should  liaise  with the SIPP  provider to establish  whether  Mr W had 
suffered any loss as a result of investing later in February 2019, rather than 15 February. She didnt 
recommend any additional compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr W didnt  agree with the investigators conclusions.  He maintained that Phoenix Life shouldve  had 
the necessary information  to proceed with the transfer by 23 January  2019.  
Mr W said it was unlikely  he wouldve suffered any loss if hed invested on 15 February rather  than 23 
January. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr W started the process to transfer his pension fund towards the end of 2018.  Phoenix Life wrote to 
Mr W in December 2018,  and listed the documents he needed to complete and return  to it, and those  
that he needed to send to the SIPP provider.  The letter  said:
We will only be able to process this transfer once  we have received all the correctly completed 
documents.
When we have received  all the information we require, we will make payment directly to the new 
pension provider, usually  within 10 to 15 working  days
Ref: DRN67341505Mr W completed the relevant documents and returned them  to Phoenix Life. His letter  and enclosures 
were received by the business  on 19 December 2018. 
In the covering letter  he said hed sent to the SIPP  provider two further forms required by Phoenix Life 
and copies of the plans trust deed and appointment of trustee. Mr W hasnt been able to provide a 
copy of the letter and enclosures  he sent to the SIPP provider, but I dont doubt  what  he says.
In early January it was discovered that one of the forms Mr W had returned to Phoenix Life shouldve 
been sent to the SIPP provider. Phoenix Life forwarded this form to the SIPP provider on 9 January 
2019. It also set out details of the other documents it needed  from the SIPP provider to complete  the 
transfer. 
Mr W has provided evidence from the SIPP  provider to show that it started the process to send 
Phoenix Life what it needed  on 21 January  2019. But it seems that because of the pension policys  
history, the SIPP provider  had to send the information to a different Phoenix Life office. The SIPP 
provider was given revised instructions by Phoenix Life on 24 January 2019 and the documents were  
sent on 29 January. They were received by Phoenix Life on 1 February  2019.  
Im inclined  to agree with Mr W that if information had to be sent to a different Phoenix Life office,  the 
SIPP provider shouldve been told this at the outset  i.e. when  it first contacted the new provider on 9 
January 2019. If that had been the case, Im satisfied  that Phoenix Life wouldve  received what  it 
needed earlier. 
Im aware that Mr W doesnt  consider Phoenix Lifes ten to fifteen working day timeframe for 
completing transfers is reasonable. It took Phoenix Life twelve working days to process  the 
information received from Mr W, at which point it contacted  the new provider. But all it had established 
by this point  was that it needed to send a form to the new SIPP provider and ask for further 
information. Im conscious  that this timeframe occurred  over the Christmas and New Year  period, but I 
still consider the timeframe to be excessive  for what it had actually achieved  by that point. 
ABI guidance issued in 2006  was that a timeframe  of ten working days should apply to complete  
transfers  this assumes that all the relevant  information was in hand, but I nevertheless think that at 
the very least, Phoenix Life should have adhered to that timeframe to request the relevant information 
it needed to proceed.
And so I think  that, had it done so, the following chronology would  have transpired:
Ten working  days from receiving Mr Ws request  on 19 December 2018 to sending  forms and 
requesting information from the new SIPP  provider   7 January 2019
Eight working days for the new provider to start to process the information it had received  17 
January 2019
Six working days for Phoenix Life to receive what it needed  to complete the transfer  25 January 
2019
Ten working  days to make  payment - 8 February 2019
So I think the transfer  shouldve completed by 8 February 2019. 
Phoenix Life should therefore establish  the value of Mr Ws new SIPP had the transfer completed on 
that date,  rather than when it actually did. If the value of Mr Ws SIPP would have  been higher,  then 
Phoenix Life should make  a payment into his new SIPP  on his behalf to compensate for that loss. The 
payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
Ref: DRN67341506If a payment into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance  implications,  it should be paid 
directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been 
taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% (if either party  thinks  
this is wrong, they should let me know why). So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss would  adequately  reflect this.
Phoenix Life has already  paid £100 for the inconvenience caused,  which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and if it remains the same,  the 
business should follow my direction as set out above.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6734150