K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading at the time C&G, mis-sold  them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI). 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer mainly to Lloyds in this decision. And although  there were 
two PPI policies  sold  if I occasionally mention policy Im referring to both sales, as they 
were sold very close together.
background and summary to complaint
We now know Mr and Mrs B bought the PPI in two blocks,  in February  and August 2003,  at 
the same  times as taking out further borrowing on their (already existing)  joint-mortgage. 
They applied for the additional  borrowing  and PPI policies in a branch.
The PPI policies provided cover for Mr B only - for accident, sickness, and unemployment   
subject to certain exclusions and limitations.  The cover offered  to repay them  a monthly  
amount towards  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  balance in the event of a successful claim.  At the 
time, the PPI cost £2.75  per month  for the first policy (February  2003) and £6.00 further 
(August 2003) for the second policy. 
At those times, Mr B was employed  as a fabricator. He told us he was entitled  to employee 
benefits such as a death in service award and what he refers to as 6 months  sick pay.  My 
understanding is that he was in good health at the time and had some savings available.  I 
dont have evidence  of the benefits  or savings Mr B says he had, but Ive considered what 
hes said, and indeed  Mr and Mrs Bs wider circumstances, with care in assessing their 
complaint. Mrs B wasnt protected by the PPI.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  opened  in 2002 and 
closed in 2005. Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has made lengthy and substantial 
representations on their behalf.  I will not restate  them all here, but I have  read and 
considered them all carefully. In summary,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Bs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs B and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN63352072The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sales took place  close together, in 2003, before the sale of general insurance products 
like this became regulated  by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs  and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS)  are 
not applicable to this complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.  There were  a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which  I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils  
General Insurance Code for private  customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. The 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider to 
be indicative  of the standards of good  industry  practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN63352073The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
Bs case.  There was also the Mortgage  Code  which  was a voluntary  code  followed  by 
subscribing lenders  and mortgage intermediaries.  While predominantly about mortgage 
related matters, it also included some  insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN63352074including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional and I think  theres strong 
evidence of this. 
The first element is that Mr and Mrs B are adamant they refused to have PPI, despite 
discussing it with an adviser,  and would never have agreed to this type of cover. By 
definition then, they are accepting  there was indeed a choice, which  they maintain they 
chose to turn down.
But as far as refusing the PPI cover is concerned, Im afraid the evidence points strongly the 
other way. I see, for example, that they both signed  a Payment Protection Plus Proposal  
Form on 27 February  2003. I think this would have been obvious enough what  this 
application was for, particularly  as theyd previously operated a mortgage  without  any PPI at 
that point. They also authorised the monthly  PPI premium of £2.75 to leave their bank 
account each  month.  This shows, in my view, they did apply for PPI.
Ive thought about whether this might have been done somewhat  in haste. However,  they 
followed the same procedure again in August 2003,  just a few months  later, when they were  
borrowing more money again. They filled out a specific PPI application asking for the 
insurance to be set up, signed the form and once again they completed a direct debit 
instruction to allow the additional £6.00 to leave their bank account. On both occasions I 
note they chose PPI cover only for Mr B, rather than both of them. To me this suggests 
theyd given the PPI a lot of consideration and decided, twice,  what  they wanted to do.
Finally, I note they wrote to Lloyds in 2005 asking to cancel the PPI. The letter set out certain  
details of the cover, such as the policy numbers, and it contained no element of complaint or 
surprise. Taking everything into account therefore,  I am completely satisfied that Mr and Mrs 
B knew the policies were  optional and they agreed to take them both out without undue  
pressure. I do accept  however, they genuinely may not remember this after such a long time.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds concedes that advice was provided  during the sales.  This means Lloyds had to 
advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  cover  
was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN63352075I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the cover was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs B. It seems Mr and Mrs B cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Bs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific 
information to show the adviser  took steps to establish whether Mr B would  have been  
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policies did 
not fully meet his and Mrs Bs needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds 
considered whether Mr B had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the cover was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the it was ultimately  suitable  
for them. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the cover  it seems likely that their ability to continue to 
meet their mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mr B was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for benefits  or savings they 
say they would have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the cover appears  to have been affordable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the cover  unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  his ability to claim. There  were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr B be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs B be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the cover was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the costs,  
which were outlined on the paperwork they had at the time. I have reached  this conclusion 
Ref: DRN63352076because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the cover  without  any sense 
of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But I accept the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take out the cover.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the cover it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B all of the 
information they needed about the PPI to make an informed decision about  whether to follow 
the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Bs. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
B. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs B suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
Ref: DRN63352077In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs B were  given about  the cost was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
I consider it more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs B knew they would  have to pay something 
for the policy. But overall, Im not persuaded Lloyds made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs B 
would get back  in return in the event they made a successful claim. Nevertheless, I think its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs expectations about  what the policy  would pay in the event  of a claim 
(an amount  sufficient to meet  their respective further  borrowings on their mortgage) were  
significantly different to what the policy  actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that 
the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than they would have expected  as there  
was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Mr B 
knew about or ought to have known about  24 months before the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
Ref: DRN63352078wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  but they 
had limited other means to fall back on and the critical illness cover and death in service  
benefit mentioned  by Mr B covered different things to the PPI. The evidence also shows  they 
wanted the cover.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr B be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policies. They allowed for multiple  claims to be made which could help 
reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed 
at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr B was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs B would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
Ref: DRN63352079substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs B found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2003  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN633520710Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 May 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6335207