complaint
Mrs D complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) failed to pay a 
claim she made for critical illness benefit.  Instead,  it voided her protection policy  altogether 
on the grounds of misrepresentation.
To resolve her complaint, she wants L&G to pay the policys full sum assured, with interest.
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 21 February 2019. A copy  of that decision is 
attached, though the retrospective  underwriting comments from L&G have been redacted.  
In that decision  I concluded that if Mrs D had correctly  answered the policy question regarding  
ongoing investigations, L&G would have reviewed her medical records before it could have 
offered her cover on 1 January 2017. Though it suggested otherwise, I believed  L&G was in a 
position to insure  Mrs D because I gave reasons  as to why the correct  categorisation for her 
misrepresentation was careless, not deliberate. 
L&G had two options on underwriting for a benign breast condition that had proliferative 
changes without atypia.  I didnt see any compelling  reason  why L&G believed it could 
reasonably conclude that the more severe of the two underwriting options would have applied 
to Mrs D. I therefore said the complaint ought  to be upheld  subject to anything other 
evidence the parties  may have to add.  
Mrs D accepted the provisional findings  in full, and made no comments  for me to consider.  
L&G disagreed. In summary,  it said:
it remained of the view that on her application,  all three questions  were answered 
incorrectly;
Mrs Ds husband works in the medical  profession so he also would have been aware 
of the importance of giving correct answers;
nonetheless,  since I agreed one of the questions was wrongly  answered  the dispute  
thereafter is about categorisation;
though the Code  of Practice notes about  the retention of premiums for deliberate 
misrepresentation it also gives the insurer the option to return them;
it does not agree  that failing to check the application could be fairly categorised as 
careless  L&G says it is reckless and/or technically deliberate;
my findings are incongruous because if I recognise the policy  application requires an 
applicant to complete  it themselves, failure  to do so must automatically be deliberate,  
not careless;
it feels that I do not have the experience of a qualified underwriter  that has been  
provided by senior underwriters, its reinsurer and its CMO;
a prudent  underwriter  would have applied an exclusion for breast  cancer;
if this service were to ask wider  industry bodies, L&G submits that other  parties would 
support its view;
the underwriting guide is just that, a guide. It is unreasonable to place reliance on that 
guide alone;
if I maintain my provisional decision and order that a claim payment be made, it will 
not pay any balance  beyond our threshold of £150,000.   
Ref: DRN6256425my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, I remain  of the view that this complaint 
ought to be upheld.  
As L&G says, the matters  remaining  before  me are of categorisation of the type of 
misrepresentation  and what flows  from that if I believe Mrs Ds actions  to be careless. 
Though I made  mention  of L&G having  returned  Mrs Ds premiums  to her, I did not state that I 
found this to be determinative of its thinking  regarding classification. Nonetheless, I disagree 
that it has shown  Mrs Ds actions to be deliberate or reckless.   
I did note in my provisional findings that the application set out how it should be filled out by the 
applicant. But, contrary to the point L&G has since made, I didnt make conflicting or 
incongruous conclusions on that basis. Mrs D didnt  check the application and allowed her 
information from an earlier application to be added to the view of her husband. She was wrong 
to do that, but I still do not accept that L&G has shown her actions to be deliberate or reckless. 
Indeed, Mrs D was not aware of the requirement  to complete the application  herself- having not 
reviewed what was set out on the document.   
The relevant  law on consumer insurance  disclosure and representations sets out that the 
burden is on an insurer to show  an applicant acted deliberately or recklessly.  To conclude as 
such, L&G must show that Mrs D knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care 
whether it was untrue or misleading, and knew that the matter to which  the misrepresentation 
related was relevant to L&G, or did not care whether  it was relevant to the insurer.
As I said previously I think Mrs D was seriously negligent, and the ABI Code  determines  this 
within the careless category. Without sight of the questions, it does not follow  that Mrs D could  
have known or failed  to care that the answers  given were misleading or relevant. She simply 
didnt know  and she made a significant  but careless oversight when allowing her husband 
and the adviser  to submit the application  on her behalf. It follows  that I dont find L&G to have 
satisfied the requirements  of the relevant law on disclosure  such that it has shown Mrs Ds 
actions to be deliberate or reckless.  
I also set out in my findings how the ABI Code made  clear  that deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation did not apply where:
the degree of relevance associated  with the misrepresentation is relatively low and, in 
cases where a premium rating would have applied, the underlying  risk premium rating 
resulting from that misrepresentation would  not have been  more than +50% (or £1/mil) 
for the applicable life assured.
That point still applies when looking at the underwriting guidance, as there is a limited  rating  of 
+50 had Mrs D accurately disclosed her actual  medical circumstances. Our rules set out how,  
when making my determination I ought  to consider relevant codes of practice, as well as laws, 
regulations and standards set out by the regulator.  
I take the point  that I am not a qualified underwriter, nor do I have medical  qualifications. But 
that is not my role here. My duties as an ombudsman are clear within  our rules and that I am 
Ref: DRN6256425required to determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the case.
I have considered all of the retrospective underwriting comments. I have to balance  this with 
the relevant medical evidence, and with what the underwriting guidance says. It is not merely 
the case that I am placing sole reliance on that guidance. I accept  that it is only a guide, 
against which an underwriter will decide whether  to offer terms. 
Nevertheless, the guidance is clear  and forms a structure around which a decision is made. Its 
for that same reason  that L&G says it relies on one outcome of the guidance (an exclusion) 
than another (the +50 rating).  I understand  interpretation around that guidance is subjective; 
that doesnt mean I cannot look at that against all of the evidence to decide what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened on balance  as that is the fairest  way to determine a reasonable 
outcome. 
Given this decision is published,  I have redacted the exact comments made by underwriters on 
the various dates,  but these initially gave no specific confirmation  as to why an exclusion would 
be preferred over a rating. On the further assessments, L&G has said that Mrs Ds diagnosis of 
sclerosing adenosis (with proliferative changes) with atypia meant that her risk of going on to 
develop breast cancer increased fivefold. It said this based on some wording to that effect in 
the guidance. 
However, as I said in my provisional decision,  thats not the case here. Mrs Ds diagnosis  of 
sclerosing adenosis is one of several types of benign breast  condition  with proliferative 
changes that does not have atypia. I went on to explain how conditions  displaying proliferative 
changes without atypia  means that they display nodularity  (as explained  by Mrs Ds consultant)  
due to growth of cells,  but the cells are not abnormal. My understanding  was that in in these 
circumstances, there  is little or no increased breast cancer risk. I also noted that within  breast 
cancer care sources widely available  to patients,  it is said that sclerosing  adenosis  does not 
increase the risk of developing breast cancer.
I remain of that view, and Ive seen no comments or evidence to change  my reasoning. 
On balance, I think L&G would likely  have offered a rating as opposed to an exclusion. I 
believe it is most likely that the low rating open to an underwriter is for the majority of benign  
breast conditions without atypia that do not require any type of excision biopsy which contrasts  
to the conditions with atypia which do have  an increased risk of breast  cancer. 
I dont agree it is necessary for me to seek  wider  industry guidance when whats available 
already is clear. Thats because my conclusions do not mean Im stepping  outside of my remit 
and making an underwriting decision. What  it means is that based on all of the evidence in 
front of me Ive seen  no compelling reason why L&G believed  it could  reasonably conclude that 
the more severe  of the two underwriting  options would have applied to Mrs D when the medical 
evidence and guidance used alongside the manual page suggests otherwise. 
putting things  right
L&G has confirmed that (in principle)  a claim for breast cancer  would have been  met as of 7 
September 2017. 
I therefore direct L&G to calculate Mrs Ds sum assured as at that date, by reducing  it 
proportionately as set out by relevant law. 
Ref: DRN6256425L&G can deduct from the claim value the amount already returned to Mrs D as a premium 
refund.
L&G must pay £150,000 of the claim value to Mrs D.
I also recommend that it pay the balance on any excess sum assured above £150,000, though 
I cannot order it to do so and it has since confirmed that it will not make that payment. Mrs D 
should therefore consider that carefully if she accepts this decision, since  its unlikely that she 
can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the compensation owing 
to her after the money award has been paid. She may want to consider getting independent 
legal advice before  deciding  whether to accept this decision.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to the outstanding amount from the 
date the claim should have  been accepted to the date it is paid.
I also believe a payment is warranted  for upset and distress  caused to Mrs D for the reasons 
set out in my provisional findings. I consider a payment of £500 is appropriate in these 
circumstances. 
I dont make any other award.
my final decision
I uphold the decision against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited and direct it to pay 
the redress set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.  
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6256425Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs D complains that Legal  and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) failed to pay a claim  she 
made for critical  illness  benefit. Instead, it voided  her protection  policy altogether on the grounds of 
misrepresentation.
To resolve her complaint, she wants L&G to pay the policys full sum assured, with interest.
background
In 2016, Mrs D and her husband met a financial  adviser  with a view to seeking  new protection  
policies. This was because they were moving home. They already held life assurance with critical 
illness cover  with a different  insurer.  As their liabilities had increased  since their original policies were 
taken in 2012,  they made applications for further insurance.
Mrs D applied for a new life and critical illness policy on a sole person basis on 21 November 2016. It 
had an initial sum assured  of £365,013 and was set up to decrease alongside  the mortgage lending  for 
a 14-year term. She also applied for income protection cover.
A copy of the policy application was sent to Mrs D to check.  On 8 December 2016,  Mrs D confirmed 
she had no changes to make to her answers. L&G accepted  the application  and the policies began 
on standard terms on 1 January 2017.
In September 2017, Mrs Ds husband  called  L&G and explained Mrs D had sadly been diagnosed  
with a type of invasive breast cancer after finding a lump  and seeking a private  assessment. 
During the call, Mr D mentioned that he thought Mrs D had suffered  from a benign breast lump in 
October 2016.
L&G noted Mrs D hadnt  made any relevant  disclosures on her application regarding  breast lumps  or 
tests. So, it sought information from her treating doctors. Having done so, it noted  Mrs D had been 
undergoing investigations  after she had sought advice  regarding a breast lump in late October 2016. 
These investigations werent completed until December 2016.
In April 2018,  L&G told Mrs D it was unable  to accept her claim. It said that she had failed to answer 
two questions correctly on her policy application. And it felt she hadnt given any mitigating 
explanation as to why she neglected to tell it about her investigations, which included different  types 
of scans and tests.
Given these tests  were immediately before the application  and still ongoing at the time Mrs D checked 
her answers,  L&G concluded her actions must have been deliberate  or reckless. It therefore cancelled 
the policy  and returned  the premiums she had paid.
Mrs D complained. She said:
it wasnt the case that shed noticed a lump  she actually noted her right breast felt heavier  
and wanted reassurance about  the reason for that;
she had expected the change was due to her age;
after seeing the GP she had a private referral which involved some tests the same day;
because she was reassured  that the biopsy  taken  seemed normal  she forgot about the 
referral for subsequent investigations with a consultant  and this was why it wasnt 
included in the application;
because the policy was taken out with the same adviser, details were  transferred across 
Ref: DRN6256425from the previous  application which Mrs D didnt recall having sight of it.
L&G would not change  its view. It said that the evidence  from Mrs Ds GP showed she attended on 26 
October 2016 with a concern  about  a breast lump. It took the view that this was a significant event, 
and because  it was so recent, Mrs D ought to have been able to recall it. The investigations were  
ongoing when she applied for the cover  and at the time she replied to the checking your details  
document on 8 December  2016.
L&G said if Mrs D had told it the correct information, it would have postponed  the cover until the 
investigations were complete. Following  that, it would  have applied an exclusion for breast cancer  to 
the policy.  However,  it took the view that Mrs D must have known  the answers  to the two questions  
were wrong and on that basis  insurance  practice allowed it to cancel the policy on the grounds of 
deliberate misrepresentation.
Mrs D brought her complaint  to our service. She said L&Gs actions were  unreasonable and she 
made a considerable number of points about this. I havent  repeated each point here, though I have 
read the submission  in full. In summary, she said:
she didnt take out the policy for health  reasons as she already had cover with a differing  
insurer  there was no intent  to deceive L&G;
L&G is unreasonably calling  her actions deliberate when there is no evidence to support 
such an allegation;
she feels  L&G is ignoring  relevant evidence  and reaching unfair  and illogical 
conclusions about what went  on in 2016;
the adviser sent their 2012 applications over to them to review;
Mrs Ds husband confirmed that their details  remained the same from 2012;
the 2012 application also asked about lumps and attendance at hospital  which Mrs D had 
correctly answered no to at that time;
Mrs Ds husband takes the lead in matters of financial planning;
when she saw the consultant on 26 October 2018 he did a mammogram,  and an 
ultrasound on both breasts;
he told her that her changes to her breasts were normal and caused by tissue 
changes which happen  with ageing;
Ref: DRN6256425the further MRI scan  and second ultrasound  recommended  following that 
appointment were  to give her peace of mind;
there was no evidence of cancer or other cause for concern by December  2016 
every test came back as normal;
in respect of L&Gs  policy  question, she did not see the consultant for a growth, lump, polyp  or 
tumour of any kind;
the GPs note about a breast  lump was incorrect  once she saw the consultant it was 
clear she had no such lump;
the consultant confirmed that what Mrs D experienced in 2016 (nodularity and dense breast 
tissue) does not amount  to a growth, lump,  polyp or tumour,  so she had no reason to give a 
positive answer to that question;
L&G would have offered her insurance  because  though  it claims  she had failed  to tell it about  
investigations relating  to her breasts in October 2016, by November 2016
she had been told that she did not have cancer;
she did not deliberately  conceal investigations from L&G  what she did was answer truthfully 
that she had not had cancer, and did not have any growth or lump at that time;
she accepts the other question was answered  incorrectly;
she has apologised  unreservedly to L&G for this, but she does not accept  that the error 
amounts to deliberate or reckless behaviour;
the cause is because she allowed her husband to review  the forms;
though she does not blame her husband for not noticing that one question  would no longer 
apply to her circumstances, it was simply an error in good  faith;
Mr D made disclosures  about his specific medical  circumstances  this shows they had no 
overall intent  to mislead or lie to L&G;
it cannot  be the case  that she acted recklessly when she had nothing  to conceal;
L&G has failed to show her any evidence as to why it would have applied an exclusion 
for breast cancer if it had been in the position  to offer her insurance;
this is contrary to medical  evidence  she has supplied  from her consultant which  says how in 
December 2016 she would have had a statistically lower chance than the average person of 
being diagnosed with breast cancer;
L&G has chosen to ignore that evidence;
it also has confused matters by alleging  she forgot to disclose when throughout she has 
maintained that the reason for the one incorrect answer was because  Mr D completed the 
form on her behalf;
she maintains  that had she not made a mistake, L&G would have insured  her on 
standard terms as it has provided no evidence  to the contrary.
L&G said it remained  of the view that Mrs Ds explanation for what  went  on wasnt credible.  It noted  how 
in fact Mrs D hadnt answered three questions correctly, because there was a third question which also 
asked her if she intended  to see a medical professional within the next four weeks,  and that was 
wrongly answered no.
An investigator reviewed  the complaint. He believed it ought  to succeed. Though he agreed with L&G 
that Mrs D had failed  to answer a question correctly,  he believed L&G had acted  unreasonably in 
voiding the policy. He said it should instead have concluded Mrs Ds actions were  careless,  meaning a 
claim could be paid at a proportionate  value.
Our investigator noted that if Mrs D had told it about her tests,  L&G would have either rated her policy by 
+50 or applied an exclusion for breast cancer. But there was no confirmation as
Ref: DRN6256425to which option an underwriter would  have chosen nor could L&G evidence  any circumstance 
where it would generally apply the exclusion, so the investigator felt it was fairest  in the 
circumstances to assume the premium  would  have been rated.
L&G disagreed with the investigator. It made a number  of further points:
it reiterated that Mrs D actually  failed  to answer three questions  correctly;
Mrs Ds tests of 2016 showed she didnt  have  cancer or any serious concern but she was 
diagnosed with sclerosing adenosis;
she knew  that her consultant proposed an MRI just one day before the application was 
sent off;
in L&Gs view the explanation  given  by Mrs D for the incorrect answers  is neither  
plausible nor mitigating;
the fact Mrs D completed an online checking your answers form via the financial  adviser 
shows she had complete disregard for her answers;
the failure to make no reasonable effort  to check the accuracy  of the answers  can only 
amount to an act of recklessness;
the decision on the category of misrepresentation is supported by the guidance on 
misrepresentation in the Code of Practice issued by the Association of British  Insurers 
(ABI);
that Code says that categorisation as deliberate  or reckless is likely  to apply where  a 
consumer misrepresented  concerns about their recent or ongoing health where  a 
reasonable customer  would have understood it to be important to their health;
even  if the misrepresentation  had not been  deliberate,  the policy  exclusion would  have 
been applied, not the rating;
it accepts that the underwriting manual page shows  the underwriting decision  is open to 
interpretation between two options;
but, it believes a retrospective interpretation  would  have been to apply the exclusion because 
the diagnosis of sclerosing adenosis  was so proximate to the policy  application;
further, the underwriting guidance states that any proliferative change  to the breast (such  as 
Mrs Ds diagnosis of sclerosing adenosis) increases  the risk of breast cancer  by up to five 
times;
it is logical that an insurer would apply  an exclusion  rather than take on that risk.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator 
though my findings and proposed resolution are different. To explain my reasoning I have included 
specific quotes from L&Gs  retrospective underwriting  though I will redact these in a published 
decision.
If an applicant doesnt tell an insurer relevant information in response to a clear  question  its known as 
a misrepresentation . If the circumstances around a claim  prompt  an insurer to believe a 
misrepresentation may have occurred  within  an application, its entitled to consider what  ought  to have 
happened at that time.  That means it may conclude  the applicant has failed to provide all relevant 
information it needed to decide whether to offer insurance,  and if so, on what  terms.
Ref: DRN6256425K821x#15Whilst I realise  Mrs D has explained why she didnt check the policy application, L&G had a 
reasonable expectation that she would do so. Moreover, the application expressly sets out the duty 
to answer  questions accurately.
L&G made  this requirement clear to Mrs D within the policy application. It said:
Important Customer  Information
You must  answer  the application questions truthfully and accurately. This is to help 
ensure Legal & General  can pay valid claims.
The questions must only be answered by the person(s) to be insured.
Depending on the circumstances,  it might  be that an insurer  finds no misrepresentation 
happened at all. Otherwise, there are two types of qualifying misrepresentation under relevant 
law  these are careless and deliberate  or reckless. An insurer can take certain action 
depending on the type of misrepresentation.
L&G says Mrs D ought to have answered the following  three  questions  differently: 
Health - Last 5 years continued
Apart from anything youve already told us about  in this application,  during the last 5 years 
have you seen  a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
a growth, lump, polyp or tumour of any kind?
Health - Last 12 months
Apart from anything youve already told us about  in this application,  during the last 12 
months have  you:
been  referred to or had any investigations in hospital, for example biopsy, 
scan, ECG?
Please ignore investigations  related to pregnancy  or infertility  where the results have been 
confirmed as normal.
Health - Continued
Apart from anything youve already told us about  in this application,  do you have any 
medical condition or symptom that:
During the last 3 months have you had any of the following?
Unexplained bleeding, weight loss, lump or growth? 
Mrs Ds application said no in response to all these questions.
In respect  of the first and third questions, I accept that, if Mrs D had answered the questions  
herself, that it could be argued no misrepresentation took place.
When Mrs D met with her GP on 26 October 2016, it was recorded that she had found  a lump  in 
her breast.  However, Mrs D met with a private consultant surgeon that same day, where she 
underwent various tests.  I realise Mrs D disputes that she ever presented with a lump, but the 
medical records refer to a lump. I have not seen any suggestion that the GPs  record is wrong.  And 
this presentation is also supported by Mrs Ds consultant referring to Mrs D having  approached him 
with concerns about nodularity which could include a lesion - he has since clarified on 30 January  
2018 as to how nodularity was not (in that context) intended to describe  a growth but rather, dense 
breast tissue.
However, having presented  with a concern  in her right breast, the clinic  letter  of the same day 
finds no focal  lesions reported upon testing. The surgeon noted there was calcification and cystic 
Ref: DRN625642511components in Mrs Ds left breast and for this reason imaging and a biopsy  were required.
By 16 November  2016,  it had been confirmed to Mrs D by the surgeon that the assessment 
showed her breasts  to be normal,  with no reported findings and her biopsy was benign.  The 
consultant surgeon says in his letter of 23 November 2017 that he referred Mrs D for a further MRI 
scan with a different radiologist just to be on the safe side.
The policy application was completed on 21 November 2016.
At that time, there was ambiguity as to the first or third questions above. Though  the surgeon had 
noted nodularity or cystic changes,  neither  of these are asked within  that question. The first question  
solely asks about growths, lumps, polyps or tumours and the third about  lumps.
Notwithstanding that the surgeon talked about nodularity  (and he has clarified on 30 January  2018 
that he meant that to mean  no discrete lesion palpable in the breast),  none of the four categories 
were being  considered by that time. The surgeon has also expressly said in the same letter how in 
2016 nodularity was not a growth because there was no evidence that it was a growth on 
examination or imaging . Mrs D says she was reassured on the first appointment with the surgeon 
that she didnt  have a breast lump, and I think  this is the likely course of events.
Nonetheless, in my view the answer to the second question  is wrong. It shouldve been answered  
positively. Irrespective of the outcome on 22 December 2016, Mrs D had undergone  several 
different forms of diagnostic testing a matter of weeks before the policy application,  and again  
before the checking your details  form was returned. She knew that she had an upcoming MRI 
scan, and following  that scan  in early December  she was sent for a final further ultrasound scan. All 
of these occurred  shortly  before the policy started on 1
January 2017. Mrs D ought  reasonably to have considered that information  relevant  to
L&Gs decision.
These investigations are something  L&G needed to know about as it could base  an underwriting 
decision on the results of those tests. It asked a clear and specific question and Mrs D agrees she 
should have given a positive reply.
I therefore believe  there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, the law says 
that it should  be classed as deliberate/reckless or careless. In addition, there is relevant guidance  
from the ABI setting out best practice for insurers. Though it isnt legally binding,
Im mindful of the guidance and L&G has relied  on it when justifying  its categorisation.
I do not believe  that Mrs Ds actions are deliberate or reckless. The Code  notes at section
8.5 how,  insurers will only keep the premiums in cases where there is clear evidence of deliberate  
or reckless misrepresentation . I note that despite  its assertions  of clear evidence,  L&G has given 
Ms D her policy premiums  back.
The relevant law on disclosure and representations says that a qualifying misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless if the applicant knew  that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care 
whether it was untrue or misleading. The applicant must also have known  that the matter to which  
the misrepresentation related was relevant  to the insurer, or did not care whether  it was relevant to 
the insurer.  Otherwise, any other qualifying  misrepresentation will be careless.
In Mrs Ds case, she didnt review the policy questions, and left her husband  to complete them,  
as she had completed a previous policy application to a different insurer four years  prior. Mrs D 
has behaved  unreasonably here, because she ought to have  shown far more care than she did. 
I know Mr D accepts she made a mistake.
The policy application clearly  requires the insured person to answer questions about his or her 
health, not by proxy. Despite this, she allowed  her husband to transfer across answers from a 
Ref: DRN625642512former policy from a different insurer who asked  similar questions. Even so, I dont believe it can 
be fairly said Mrs D knew or didnt care that she would be giving an untrue  answer if she didnt 
know what was asked at all. On that basis, I dont  agree  with L&Gs assertions that the 
misrepresentation was deliberate.
Further, in the categorisation section of the Code of Practice, it says careless  misrepresentation 
applies  where  the misrepresentation resulted from insufficient care  the failure to exercise  
reasonable care. This includes anything from an understandable oversight or an inadvertent 
mistake to serious negligence. I think serious negligence best describes Mrs Ds position. Her 
inaction was greater than a mere oversight, but Ive seen no clear evidence to conclude  she acted 
deliberately or recklessly.
Finally, the Code also says that deliberate  or reckless  categorisation does not apply where: 8.3.1  
Having investigated  the matter,  the customer has a credible explanation
supported by the facts  for the misrepresentation having occurred and/or  there are other 
credible mitigating circumstances.
8.3.2 The degree of relevance associated with the misrepresentation is relatively low and, 
in cases where a premium  rating would  have applied, the underlying risk premium rating 
resulting from that misrepresentation would not have been more than
+50% (or £1/mil) for the applicable life assured.
Though I appreciate L&G doesnt accept Mrs Ds explanation as credible,  I believe  the second 
point applies here when looking at the underwriting guidance, as there is a limited rating of +50 
had Mrs D accurately  disclosed her actual medical circumstances.
I have carefully reviewed  the retrospective  underwriting decisions L&G has provided  dated
28 November 2017, 2 January 2018, 15 January 2018, and 28 February  2018.
If Mrs D had disclosed her current circumstances  on her application, L&G would have been made 
aware of her clear MRI scans  and confirmation that she did not have a lump in her right breast as 
initially suspected  when she saw the GP. It would also have been aware of the incidental  finding of 
calcification in her left breast. The biopsy  report of 2 November sets out those findings  as 
microcystic  changes,  sclerosing adenosis, with calcification and apocrine  metaplasia, surrounded 
by a hyalinised stroma.  The features are those of benign fibrocystic breast changes. No evidence 
of malignancy.
When reviewing this history, the underwriters originally said Mrs D would have been offered 
standard terms but for the misrepresentation, as her consultant had said recorded  all of the 
findings from the tests as unremarkable and benign. However, it then sourced  the appropriate 
manual pages that an underwriter would  have used at the time and revised its view.  In the 
assessment of 2 January  2018, it said:
[redacted]. 
By 15 January 2018, it confirmed:
[redacted]. 
On 28 February 2018  the same underwriter L&G said [redacted]. 
In the response to our investigator of 9 November 2018,  L&G argued that the underwriting manual is 
only a guide and the underwriter will apply that guide to the facts  of an applicants medical 
circumstances. It now adds that:
[redacted]. 
Ref: DRN625642513I agree that it isnt always possible to know exactly what an insurer would  have done when looking 
at a decision  to offer cover retrospectively. Its for that reason we look closely at the guidance 
available to an underwriter at the time to determine what should likely have happened. It may then 
be the case that I make a finding on the balance  of probabilities.
After I was passed this complaint, I asked L&G to supply further underwriting  information  to our 
investigator. We had a copy of the manual page but the summary information  as to why that page 
applied was illegible. Further, the underwriter would also have  had supporting  guidance notes so I 
asked for these (headed  benign breast conditions  as well). Ive now reviewed  the pages in full 
and I dont agree  that the exclusion would  have  been  applied.
For benign breast conditions,  the ratings are based  on whether  there has been  a biopsy, and if so 
whether the biopsy showed non-proliferative  (including  apocrine change) or
proliferative confirmed. In the instance  of the latter, it includes a finding of sclerosing adenosis. 
Proliferative changes fall into two further subtypes,  those with atypia and those without. For 
those without atypia (i.e. having excessive  cell growth but without abnormal  cells) the rating  is 
either +50 / exclude  breast cancer from the contract. For those with atypia (abnormal cells),  
breast cancer is excluded. There is no further subcategory in the ratings.
However, the supporting guide that L&G has referred to on 9 November 2018 does give further 
clarification. It explains how benign breast condition  are common and often described as 
fibrocystic change. [which] often reflects normal variations in breast physiology.
It goes on to set out that:
[redacted]. 
L&G applied  the latter part of the wording above  to Mrs D, but that is not correct. Her 
diagnosis of sclerosing adenosis is one of several  types of benign breast condition  with 
proliferative changes  that does not have atypia.
From what Ive seen, conditions  displaying proliferative  changes without atypia means  that they 
display nodularity (as explained by Mrs Ds consultant) due to growth of cells,  but the cells are not 
abnormal. My understanding is that in in these circumstances, there is little or no increased  
breast cancer risk. I note that within breast cancer care sources widely available to patients,  it is 
said that sclerosing adenosis  does  not increase  the risk of developing breast cancer.
Similarly, the consultant who assessed  Mrs D in 2016 has given a clear  explanation in his letter  
of 30 January  2018 to L&G.  In that, he confirms:
there was no way of knowing at that time whether Mrs D had an increased risk of 
developing breast carcinoma. I refer you to the comment made by my colleague  Dr S who 
makes the point that Mrs Ds chance of developing breast cancer after thorough 
examination and investigations would  have been lower  than the general population. None  
of the descriptions of the radiology can be used as an indicator of an increased risk of 
developing breast cancer.
My view is that an underwriter would  likely have offered a rating as opposed  to an exclusion.  I 
believe it is most likely that the low rating open to an underwriter is for the majority of benign  breast 
conditions without atypia  that do not require any type of excision biopsy.
Proliferative breast conditions with atypia clearly have  a significant risk of being diagnosed  with a 
type of breast  cancer  in the future. But, the majority of proliferative conditions  (associated with the 
overgrowth of breast tissue)  do not significantly  increase  a persons risk of going on to develop 
breast cancer. And those  that do are further set out within L&Gs guidance, such as lobular 
Ref: DRN625642514carcinoma in situ and fibroadenomas.
Ive seen no compelling reason  why L&G believe  it could  reasonably conclude  that the more severe  
of the two underwriting  options would have applied to Mrs D when the medical evidence and 
guidance used alongside the manual page suggests otherwise. Unless I see any other evidence  
that changes  my view, I believe that the claim is payable.
putting things right
If Mrs D had correctly answered the policy question regarding ongoing investigations,  L&G would  
have reviewed her medical records before it could have offered  her cover on 1 January 2017. 
Though it suggests otherwise, I believe it was in a position to insure Mrs D because the correct 
categorisation for her misrepresentation was careless, not deliberate.
The reasonable interpretation of the underwriting guidance is not to look at a benign breast 
condition with atypical proliferative changes, but to measure it as a condition  without atypia,  for 
which most do not present the same increased  risk of going on to develop breast cancer. I currently 
believe L&G ought to retrospectively apply  a +50 rating to the policys sum assured at the claim 
date (see below) and pay Mrs Ds claim  proportionately, had that rating applied from the outset.
I note from L&Gs  claim  file note that a claim  for breast  cancer would  have been met as of 7 
September 2017. Im therefore  minded  to direct L&G to calculate the policys sum assured  as at that 
date and apply the above rating to the sum assured.  L&G can deduct from the claim value the 
amount already returned  to Mrs D as a premium  refund.
Unless any evidence changes my mind, Im likely  to direct L&G to pay £150,000 of the claim value 
to Mrs D and recommend  that it pay the balance  above that amount, though I cannot  order it to do 
so. Simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year should be added to the outstanding  amount from the 
date the claim  should have been  accepted to the date it is paid.
Finally, I believe  a payment  is warranted for upset and distress caused  to Mrs D. Though  it was 
open to L&G to avoid the claim  if it believed it was entitled to do so, Mrs D has told us how she feels  
it continued to ignore her explanation  for the incorrect question and it has never properly explained 
why she wouldnt have been insured at all. I agree L&G could have been clearer to Mrs D even if it 
could not supply its exact underwriting  information to her. I can see she has been caused upset by 
this at what has been  a very difficult time given her recent  diagnosis. I think  a payment of £500 is 
appropriate in these circumstances.
I dont intend to make  any other award.
my provisional  decision
I propose to uphold  the decision against Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited for the 
reasons set out above.
I now invite the parties to provide our investigator with any further submissions  they may wish 
to make by 7 March  2019. Following this, I will issue my final decision.
 Jo Storey
 ombudsman
Ref: DRN6256425