K820x#14complaint
Mr D says he seeks compensation for a financial loss he faced from 2018  due to a trade 
executed by Idealing.com Limited  (Idealing) in 2013 which it should not have  executed. He 
says he had no access to his account (or the trade) between 2013  and 2018. 
background
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. His summary of the facts included the following:
On 28 March 2013 a Court  Restraint Order was issued  on Mr Ds trading account.
On 1 April 2013 Mr D placed a future buy order for the trade related to the complaint.
On 2 April 2013 Idealing received the Court  Order and suspended the account.
On 4 April 2013 the future buy order was automatically executed.
In the main,  the investigator considered as follows:
It was likely that the future buy order was placed  with knowledge of the Court Order.
Idealing first became  aware of the Court Order on 2 April, when it suspended the 
account, and it would  have only become aware of the future buy order  when it was 
automatically executed on 4 April.
Idealing did not receive notice to prevent the order and it was down to the relevant 
client to cancel such an order.
After 2 April Idealing  would not have been in a position to make  any kind of decision 
relating to the account, unless instructed by an authorised third party.
Mr D disagreed with this outcome. He rejected the suggestion that he placed  the future buy 
order with knowledge  of the Court  Order and said he learnt about the Court Order  on 2 April, 
after placing  the future buy order on 1 April. In his earlier submissions  he had said that he 
was in no position to mitigate  the trade until 2018 when the suspension was lifted  and when 
he already faced a loss from the trade. In response to the investigators  view he said the 
trade and loss should have been  avoided because  under no circumstances was Idealing to 
allow execution of the trade on 4 April after the Court Order  it received on 2 April. 
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint.
The main  issue is Idealings responsibility, as alleged by Mr D, for execution of the trade  on 
4 April. 
It does not appear  to be in dispute  that Mr D placed the future  buy order  on 1 April,  that 
Idealing first learnt about the Court  Order on 2 April, that Idealing suspended the account on 
the same  date (2 April)  and that the order was automatically executed  on 4 April. The 
dispute is about whether (or not) Idealing should have prevented  execution  of the order,  or 
should have reversed the order  after execution.
Ref: DRN65706272I have not seen evidence that Idealing was aware of the automated future buy order,  placed 
on 1 April, before it was automatically executed on 4 April.  It follows  that it could not have 
prevented the execution  as alleged by Mr D. Idealing reacted to its receipt of the Court Order  
on 2 April by suspending the account  on that date and by informing Mr D on the following 
date. Mr D says he too became aware of the Court Order on 2 April. However, and despite 
that knowledge, there is no evidence of him highlighting  the pending order  of 1 April,  
specifically, to Idealing  at the time. This too supports the conclusion that Idealing was 
unaware of the order at the time.
By 4 April,  the Court Order was in full effect upon  Mr Ds trading account. In this context, the 
suggestion that Idealing could or should  have  done  something to reverse  the automatically  
executed trade lacks  merit.  As the investigator said, and given the effect of the Court Order, 
Idealing was in no position to take any action within or in relation to the account on 4 April or 
thereafter for as long as the Court  Order remained in effect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 19 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6570627