K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains, with the help of her current Independent Financial Adviser  (IFA), that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC gave her unsuitable  investment advice.
background
In 2010 Miss H was advised to invest in four investments; a Legal  & General Portfolio Bond; 
an Aviva  Portfolio Bond; a Woolwich Fixed Income  Bond; and a Barclays Sterling  Bond  
Fund. It contacted her in 2016  because  it was reviewing the suitability of advice. It then 
wrote to her in 2017 saying that two of the recommendations  were unsuitable because they 
didnt adequately take account of her tax needs.  It offered  £463  based on a comparison with 
our normal  benchmark  and £850  for her to take advice from an IFA.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In short I found  the following:
I thought the reasons Barclays had put forward as to why it shouldnt  have  advised  
Miss H to invest  in 2010  in particular the fact she was due to receive a pension  the 
following year which the adviser  didnt have  details of  had merit.
But its proposed  redress  assumed she wouldnt  have taken a risk once she was in 
receipt of her pension.  This isnt consistent  with its own argument that she shouldve 
been advised to invest in a risk averse  solution for the first year before readdressing 
her needs once she received her pension.
I thought she wouldve  invested  in cautious risk investments once in receipt of her 
pension if she had been suitably advised and redress  should be calculated  on that 
basis.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Barclays  only comment  was that I had not 
given any explanation why Miss Hs IFA had, in a telephone call, said Miss H should  be put 
back in the position she was in before she invested but then said she should be 
compensated differently when Barclays had, after referral to us, accepted this and carried  
out a calculation on that basis.
Miss Hs IFA responded and said the following:
Does Barclays acceptance that all the recommended investments were unsuitable 
change the position  on the £463 it originally offered and is this still payable  on top of 
the award of £400 made  by the ombudsman for distress and inconvenience.
The majority  of the findings are agreed  but she has still been  disadvantaged  by not 
having used her ISA allowance  since investment as the taxation of her life assurance  
fund alone means she hasnt  earned  the equivalent return  she wouldve done if ISA 
funds had been used.
It is agreed that with her higher annual allowance  she can remedy  this over the 
coming years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61372722I have considered what both parties  have said in response to my provisional decision but Im 
not persuaded to change my findings.
Barclays has said I havent said anything  about why the IFA changed its position. I dont 
think it was necessary for me to clarify  this. My role is to make findings and a decision on a 
balance of probabilities, what is more likely than not, based on the evidence provided. I am 
not bound  by what the IFA thought  Barclays should do.
I note what the IFA has said about  the impact of Miss H not using her ISA allowance. But he 
has also acknowledged that she should be able to remedy the position over the next few 
years.
The IFA has queried what the effect is of Barclays agreeing that all Miss Hs investments  
were unsuitable  and whether its previous offer of £463 is still payable  in addition  to the £400 
I have said it should pay for distress  and inconvenience.
So it is clear,  what  Barclays has to pay is redress calculated as I have  set out in my 
provisional decision. There is no separate sum that it has to pay based  on any previous 
offers it has made. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above and in my provisional  decision. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has to calculate redress as set out in my provisional decision and 
pay what it calculates is due to Miss H. It also has to pay £400 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to her regardless of any other  redress it calculates  is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61372723COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss H complains,  with the help of her current Independent Financial  Adviser (IFA), that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC gave her unsuitable investment advice.
background
In 2010 Miss H was advised  to invest in four investments;  a Legal  & General  Portfolio Bond; an Aviva 
Portfolio Bond; a Woolwich Fixed Income Bond; and a Barclays Sterling Bond Fund.
In July 2016  Barclays  contacted Miss H because it said it wanted to check  if the advice given in 2010 
to invest  was right for her.
In a letter  dated 1 June 2017 Barclays said it had reviewed the suitability of its advice and had 
concluded that the Woolwich  Bond  and Barclays  Bond fund were  both suitable. But it said that the 
Aviva Bond and L & G Bond werent, because these didnt adequately taken account of Mrs Hs tax 
position and she may have paid more tax than she needed to.
It calculated that redress of £463 was due based  on a comparison  between  the two investments  and 
our benchmark for someone willing to take a small  risk when investing.  It also recommended that 
Miss H take financial advice  and offered up to £850 plus VAT for her to do so.
Miss Hs IFA responded on 17 September 2017. He questioned why it had taken  so long from 
Barclays initial letter  of 2016  for the review to be completed. He said it shouldve been clear  that Miss 
H had little experience and the recommendations, whilst  to some extent achieved  her objective, did so 
in an unnecessarily complicated way.
The adviser  said Miss H wanted to invest in a simple manner and that an investment bond with the 
ability to take 5% withdrawals wouldve achieved  her goal. He also said there was no explanation why 
the adviser hadnt recommended using her ISA allowance  as most of her money could be in an ISA 
wrapper by now.  He said the attitude  to risk profiler had a wrong answer and queried whether  this 
wouldve made  a difference to the initial advice.
Barclays issued a final response  letter in response to the complaint raised by the IFA. It didnt uphold  
the complaint. In short the letter  said the following:
The delay between first contacting Miss H in 2016 and its review letter of June 2017 was 
unreasonable and it apologised.
Investing only into an investment bond as suggested  by the IFA would have meant there 
would be a concentration risk.
Miss H was provided with information which advised her fully about product  charges and 
commissions.
All the investments  matched Miss Hs attitude  to risk.
The risk profile questionnaire is completed at time of sale with answers provided  by the client 
and is regarded as a true record of the meeting.
Miss H then referred her complaint to our service. Before one of our investigators considered the 
complaint Barclays  emailed  on 26 June 2018 with the following comments:
The original review  decision appears reasonable but it was concerned about  the proximity  of 
the advice to the death  of Miss Hs mother.
Her immediate needs were to provide an income  for one year as her pension became 
payable a year later.
Given this it wouldve  been beneficial for her to have waited until she retired officially to review 
her financial situation.
Ref: DRN61372724Miss H couldve received an income  of 3.15%  from a National Savings  I year guaranteed  
income bond.
She didnt  have  the opportunity to make up losses, if realised, as she had no income.
Her risk profile of cautious  isnt unreasonable but it may have been better  to advise a risk 
averse solution to obtain income  for one year then readdressed her circumstances when she 
received her pension income.
Miss H was introduced to the adviser by a member of the branch staff which means  she didnt 
instigate the meeting  but may have been coerced  into it.
The calculations  it had carried out by comparing the recommended  investments with the one 
year fixed  rate bond rate showed  no loss had been suffered.
Given this, despite the fact Miss H shouldnt  have been sold the investments at the time of 
sale she has not been financially disadvantaged.
It was willing to pay the £850 it had previously offered for adviser costs - not the £1,500  that 
had been requested. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and said she thought  that the way Barclays had 
dealt with the complaint in its email  of 26 June was fair. 
The IFA didnt agree  and said Barclays calculation  method wasnt agreed as Miss H was a cautious 
risk investor and it would be fairer to use the benchmark used for the original review in 2017.
The investigator changed  her opinion  and said Barclays should calculate  what  redress is due, if any, 
on the basis of a comparison  with our usual benchmark for someone who was willing to take a small 
risk with their investments.  
Barclays responded and said that when it had discussed the matter with the IFA it was agreed that 
Miss H wasnt  in a position  to take any risk with her funds at the time of sale. It said it had seen no 
reason as to why Miss H should be considered  a cautious  risk investor so as to alter its previous 
stance. And the recommended investments were  all considered cautious so if it is suggested Miss H 
could take a risk this could make the advice suitable. 
As agreement  hasnt  been  reached the matter has been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint made by the IFA on behalf of Miss H had various aspects. But the key issue in the 
complaint is the suitability  of the four investments she was recommended in 2010. Barclays reviewed 
these in 2017  and decided that two of the investments were unsuitable - not because the risk wasnt 
suitable for her but because  those two recommendations  may not have adequately taken account of 
her tax position.
When the IFA complained Barclays kept to the decision it had made  on review. It was only after 
referral to our service that it decided  that all of the recommendations were unsuitable. This was on the 
basis that Miss H shouldnt have been advised to invest in 2010, because her mother  had just died 
and her financial  position was due to change the following  year when she started to receive her 
pension.
I acknowledge the argument  Barclays has made about Miss H delaying investment until receipt of her 
pension. The adviser didnt have details of what she would be receiving  from her pension and the 
income figure in the fact find is blank.
Im also mindful  about  what Barclays has said about Miss H seeing  an adviser because  this was 
suggested by counter staff at her branch and that she had lost her mother only a few weeks  
previously.
Ref: DRN61372725In the circumstances I think the point Barclays has made has some merit. Im not persuaded  Miss H 
shouldve been advised  to invest in risk based products in 2010 but wouldve been better  advised to 
delay investing until the following year.  
But its proposed redress assumes she wouldnt have taken a risk with her capital  beyond the first 
year. That isnt consistent with its own argument that she wouldve  been better to invest  for the first 
year in a risk-averse solution, before readdressing her needs once she was in receipt  of her pension.  
It also isnt what I think she wouldve done if she had received suitable advice.  Within the fact find it 
was stated  that Miss H had no set term in mind as she had no plans for the money, and that she was 
happy to put it away for the longer term to get a good return.  And also that she wanted to invest as 
she needed  an income and wanted better returns. She was also identified as a cautious risk investor, 
and I have seen no persuasive evidence that she wasnt prepared to take some risk with her money.
In the circumstances I think Miss H wouldve invested in 2011 in cautious  risk investments.  Barclays 
has suggested this means the original advice was suitable as the products she invested in were 
cautious risk products. But this ignores  the fact that Barclays has already accepted that two of those 
investments were unsuitable  for reasons other than risk. It also doesnt take account of the evidence 
in the fact find that records  Miss H wanted to invest in a simple manner  and I dont think  the 
advisers recommendation was in line with this. So I think it is more likely than not she wouldve 
invested in something different if she had received suitable advice.
But I also agree with Barclays that putting all her money into one investment bond with a return of 5% 
wouldnt have been suitable either, as this wouldve meant  all her capital would be in one product.
 
What Barclays should do to put things right?
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Miss H as 
close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable advice.
I think  Miss H would have invested differently.  It is not possible to say precisely what  she would  have 
done, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Miss H's 
circumstances and objectives when  she invested. 
what should Barclays do? 
From date of investment to 1 August 2011
Given my findings Barclays should compare the performance of the four recommended investments 
from the date of each investment until 1 August  2011 (the actual value) with the monthly average rate 
from fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England (the fair 
value).
If the fair value is higher than the actual value it should pay the difference together with simple interest 
at 8% from the date of my decision to date of settlement.  Any withdrawal from the investments should 
be deducted from the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it stops accruing any return  in the 
calculation from that point.
I think  this is a suitable  remedy because I think it was appropriate for Miss H to delay  investing in risk 
based products until she had time to adjust to the loss of her mother and her changed circumstances 
and was in receipt of her pension.
I have used the 1 August 2011 as this allows  time for her to start receiving her pension  and to seek  
further advice about investing her money in a cautious risk investment.
Ref: DRN61372726From 2 August 2011 to date
Compare the performance  of Miss H's investments with that of the benchmark shown below  
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual  value of the investments.  If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
A separate calculation should  be carried  out for each investment. The resultant figures  should  
then be added  up. If the calculation still shows a loss, that would be the amount payable  to 
Miss H. 
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Legal &amp;  
General 
Portfolio 
Bondstill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed  
rate bonds2 August 2011date of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business  being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
Aviva  
Portfolio 
Bondstill existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed  
rate bonds2 August 2011date of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
28 days of the 
business  being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
Woolwich 
Fixed  
Income 
Bond  surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed  
rate bonds2 August 2011date 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Barclays  
Sterling  
Bond  Fund  still existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total  
Return Index; 2 August 2011date of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  is 
not paid within 
Ref: DRN61372727for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed  
rate bonds28 days of the 
business  being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid or payable from the investment  at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays should  use the 
monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  
should be applied  to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. 
If there  are a large number  of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Barclays 
totals all those  payments  and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Miss H wanted  income with some  growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable return without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017,  the FTSE  
WMA Stock Market Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government  bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider  that Miss H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared  to take 
a small level of risk to attain her investment  objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Miss H into that position. It does not mean that Miss H would  have invested 
50% of her money in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in some  kind of index tracker  fund. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Miss H could 
have obtained from investments  suited to her objective and risk attitude. 
The additional  interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation  money since the 
end date. 
In addition to the amount  it calculates is due as set out above Barclays  should pay Miss H £400 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused  by being provided with unsuitable investment advice. It will 
have been distressing to be told initially by Barclays that I had got things wrong and have  to seek 
advice from another  IFA and then to be told that Barclays had got other things wrong.
Barclays should also pay £850  plus VAT towards the IFAs costs.  This is what  it offered when  it first 
Ref: DRN61372728reviewed the investments and Miss H has done what it suggested  and I think it is reasonable. I note 
the IFAs costs are higher but Im not satisfied these will all relate  to providing suitable advice about  
her investments, which is what this money is for. I think some of the costs  will be for helping her with 
her complaint which I wouldnt award anything for. 
I note the original basis  Barclays had for saying two of the investments were unsuitable  was because  
these may not have  been appropriate for her from a tax point of view.  The IFA has also queried why 
Miss H wasnt  recommended  to invest using  an ISA wrapper.  
I note one of the investments was in an ISA but there was no advice to continue using her yearly  ISA 
allowance going forwards. But Im not persuaded  that she cant rectify  this over the next few years  
given the current ISA allowance is £20,000.  On the information I have seen Im not satisfied Miss H 
has suffered  any loss as a result of not using her ISA allowance to date but further evidence  may be 
provided which changes my finding on this.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained.  Barclays  Bank UK PLC has to pay the 
amount it calculates is due as set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6137272