K821x#15complaint
Mr O has complained that the advice he was given by Copia Wealth  Management  Ltd 
(Copia) in 2015  to invest his pension value  into a Discretionary Fund  Management (DFM)  
arrangement. He says this was unsuitable for him. 
background
An ombudsman at this service issued a provisional  decision dated 27 March  2020. A copy  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  The ombudsman  thought  that the advice Mr O 
had been given was unsuitable and that Copia  should calculate and pay redress.  
Mr O accepted the provisional decision.
We have not received  any further submissions from Copia or any indication  whether it 
accepts the provisional  decision. Given the period that has elapsed since  the issue  of the 
provisional decision, the complaint has been passed  to me for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I would confirm that I agree with the findings set out in the provisional 
decision. I agree that the actions taken by Copia and its advice were inappropriate and 
unsuitable for Mr O. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Copia should  now calculate and pay redress as set out in the 
attached provisional decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
David Bird
Ombudsman
copy provisional decision
Complaint
Mr O complained he was given unsuitable  advice by Copia Wealth  Management  Ltd (Copia).
He complained he ought  not to have  been  advised to start a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), 
transfer an existing pension arrangement and to have then used a discretionary  fund management  
(DFM) service.
Ref: DRN63977112Background
In the early autumn  of 2015 Copia  met with Mr O. Its said Mr O was seeking to access  a cash  sum to 
enable him to complete kitchen renovations on his home. Sums  of around £35,000 were  generally  
recorded as being required. 
At this time Mr O was aged 56, married with adult children. He was in full time employment as an 
engineer or engineering  technician,  earning around £38,000 a year.  His wife was the Director of her 
own company  and earned around £12,000 a year. They  owned  their home (valued  at around 
£500,000 to £550,000) which  had an outstanding joint mortgage of £260,000. According to 
information provided  they had no personal debts or savings.
Fact find documents completed in 2015 by a firm called  St Martins Partners LLP (SMP) (who are 
linked to the activities  complained of) suggest  Mr and Mrs O wanted to retire at the age of 65. The 
documents record that neither were regular savers;  nor that they wished  to review this. The amount 
entered on one document as being desired for an emergency cash fund was given as £5,000.
Mr O had a number of pension  arrangements  at the time.  Its understood he had two linked  plans with 
St James Place (SJP). These had been started in 2012 with payments in from Sun Life of Canada 
and Prudential.  This had been arranged  by the same adviser who was at SJP at the time and who 
then moved  to Copia. This service is not aware of any complaint having been made  about  the 
activities in 2012.
Copia say Mr O signed a letter  of authority to enable them to approach SJP on 14 September 2015.  
They say the total value of the plans  by September 2015  was £35,729.90; with a transfer value of 
£43,436. Copia say the plan(s)  had an early  withdrawal  penalty fee of 4%. Copia say it was because  
of this exorbitant  early exit penalty that they discounted  the SJP plan as the source  for the funds  and 
moved on to looking at Mr Os other pension  arrangements.
More recently this service asked SJP for further information.  We are told the early  exit penalty was a 
decreasing charge over the first seven years after the plan was started. So, in year one the early exit 
fee would have been 6% and this would  then reduce  by 1% on a yearly basis.
Mr O also had a number of employment based occupational pension scheme  (OPS) arrangements.
Copia say it was the SJP penalty that caused them to go on to look at Mr Os existing OPS. Weve  
been told Mr O had a paid-up arrangement (Xerox (Total UK)) and an ongoing  plan (Allied Bakers) to 
which contributions were still being made by Mr Os employer. We were told that letters of authority for 
Copia to obtain information  about these  arrangements  were  signed by Mr O on 26 September 2015 
and sent to the providers on 1 October 2015.
Mr O and his wife have more recently provided copies  of the Copia letters of authority signed  by Mr O. 
These appear to identify a third OPS (Tulip) in addition to the two schemes  weve  been told about. 
Copia say they received  information on the OPS  on 14 and 27 October 2015.  This confirmed both 
were defined  benefit based.  So Copia say they explained  to Mr O they didnt have the necessary 
regulatory permissions  to advise on this type of pension. Mr O and his wife dont accept  that the 
advice that followed  didnt come from Copia  ultimately.
Copia say they referred Mr O to St Martins Partners LLP (SMP) who had the required permissions  to 
provide such  advice. As this service understands it, Copia say they ceased (formally  or informally-  this 
isnt clear) to advise  Mr O at this time and didnt  return to advise him until he had the funds available  
to invest  having been advised by SMP.
Its agreed that over the months that followed SMP put into effect  the opening of a SIPP  and the 
transfer of funds from Mr Os Total UK OPS into the SIPP  and drawdown arrangement. A fee of 3% of 
Ref: DRN63977113the total transfer value was paid to SMP; and SMP went on to pay 17.5% of this fee to Copia. Its said 
this was a fee for introduction.
Two bank accounts were opened in Mr Os name. We understand £35,000 was paid into an account 
for Mr O to use for renovations and £15,000 was paid into an account intended  to act as an 
emergency fund.
In February 2016 Mr O signed various  documents with Copia including a client agreement. Copia 
were formally added to the SIPP as advisers  on 16 March  2016 and say that it was from this date they 
advised Mr O. Copia  went  on to recommend Mr O used  a discretionary  fund management  service 
(DFM).
Copia say it was only SMP who advised  Mr O in respect of the transfer of his OPS benefits  and 
opening a SIPP to accept  the transfer value. A complaint against SMP on this element  was opened  at 
this service once the initial complaint was received from Mr O and had been set up against Copia. 
Its understood the Financial  Services Compensation  Scheme (FSCS) is now accepting claims 
against SMP, and as such this service  is no longer considering the complaint made  against SMP. 
Mr O and his wife say they were in contact with the Copia  adviser throughout  (Paula Reeves) the 
process of starting  the SIPP  and transferring OPS funds. And it was she who provided documents  for 
Mr O to sign personally. They say they trusted her and considered  her the relevant adviser 
throughout.
Copia say Mr O was told by Paula Reeves of Copia and someone  called Liam Martin at SMP, that 
SMP had taken over as acting as Mr Os financial adviser. Copia told Mr O in their letter of response 
to his complaint  that theyd  been reliably informed Mr O had spoken to Liam at SMP on a number of 
occasions. 
SMPs advice letter to Mr O is headed  Advice letter re: taking benefits from your Total UK Pension 
Plan and starts with the following:
You have been introduced  to St Martin's Partners LLP (SMP) by Copia Wealth  Management  ("the 
introducer") in relation to your final salary pension  scheme with Total
Copia Wealth are primarily investment advisers. They introduce  pension clients to St Martin's  Partners 
as they themselves are unable to facilitate this type of advice and we hold the additional  Regulatory  
Permissions which enable us to advise and transact on transfers from final salary  and occupational 
pension schemes. Once the transaction  has been completed  you as the client along  with any 
investment advice required  will be dealt with directly by Copia Wealth. For the introduction, Copia  
Wealth are remunerated by St Martin's Partners. This is covered in the section marked 'Fees and 
Remuneration' towards the end of this report.
The letter indicates the understanding that Copia  intend to use a DFM approach to the investment of 
Mr Os funds.
SMPs pension transfer report  is dated  19 Nov 2015. Included in the report is the following:
This analysis does  not, on its own, show whether or not transferring your benefits  is advisable, as 
that also depends on many other factors, such as your "attitude to risk" your personal  circumstances 
and your objectives. It does, however, give an indication of the likelihood of being able to match  or 
exceed the benefits provided by your existing  scheme with a transfer to an alternative plan.
We have  been informed that the capitalised value  of your benefits (transfer value) in the Total UK 
scheme is: £209,934.00 and is guaranteed until 19/01/2016.
Ref: DRN63977114The report compares  this with the benefits that can be purchased by transferring this value to: The 
Lifetime SIPP Company.
Copias advice letter dated 15 March 2016  recorded that Mr O planned to remain  in his property for 
the next five to ten years,  and then look to downsize after this.
The letter went on to set out that Mr O had taken  his tax-free cash from his Total  UK Pension with 
The Lifetime  SIPP to enable home improvements. And that now he was instructing Copia to invest  
the remaining SIPP funds  using  a DFM.  This was to achieve growth  over the medium  to long term.  
Copia recommended a DFM  with his £148,500 using  Stephen Mepstead  as the investment manager  
and the SMILe IPM Managed Portfolio account.
Copias advice was said to reflect their assessment  Mr O had a balanced attitude  to risk and that he 
understood one was required to take some risks to gain rewards over the medium term. And that he 
might be described as an average investor.
According to Copias letter theyd considered  Mr Os knowledge and previous experience in relation to 
various types of financial products. And said that as part of this theyd considered  what  different 
financial products hed previously purchased and whether hed done this having received advice or 
acting alone. Copia concluded theyd  established  that Mr O had previously invested in investment or 
pension products  and took an active interest in following investment  markets and reviewing his 
financial plans. They explained this assessment was arrived at on the basis of Mr O having  a pension  
in place with several providers for over twenty-five years.
Based on further documentation  supplied  Mr Os fund went  on to be invested with a DFM with SVS 
Securities. Their beneficiary form indicated  Mr O had rare or no trading  experience in over the counter 
and exchanged traded derivatives; but had frequent trading experience in securities  such  as shares 
and bonds. This is disputed.  It was indicated Mr O didnt  have professional qualifications  or 
experience to enable him to understand the risks of any of the financial products.
After Mr Os adviser left Copia,  the firm wrote to him giving notice to terminate the client/ adviser 
relationship under the terms of the client  agreement.  Unhappy that he was now without an adviser, Mr 
O complained to Copia and that hed had trouble trying to find out where  his pension was invested.
In July 2017  Mr O complained to Copia and SMP. He explained his understanding hed received 
advice from Paula Reeves (Copia) regarding  his pension planning and he said he was unsure as to 
what has been completed and why. Mr O said he had concerns arising from this:
He didnt  instruct any party in this transfer, he was advised and had no idea what a DFM was 
or a SIPP.
His knowledge  of investments was and remained minimal. Hed never  invested before this, 
and only had workplace pension schemes. 
He didnt  believe he was appropriately assessed  for the suitability of a SIPP. 
Charges appeared  to have been taken by many people, including fees on the TFC, so hed 
been charged on monies that were then released to him immediately.
He was frustrated  when Copia referred him to SMP. He expressed confusion, frustration  and belief 
that Copia and SMP were working together
Copia rejected Mr Os complaint. In summary they thought  hed been given  sufficient information to 
understand where his investment funds were held. They explained theyd terminated the agreement  
to act for him as Paula Reeves  had left the firm. 
Ref: DRN63977115Copia went on to address  his complaint about the advice  surrounding the transfer of his OPS  to the 
Lifetime SIPP. They  referred to the letters of authority  signed  to enable Copia  to obtain information. 
And they noted they took no more action  with the SJP plan due to the early  withdrawal penalty, as it 
wouldnt have been in his interests  to do so.
Copia set out their reasons  why they had introduced/ referred Mr O to SMP  who had the required 
permissions to look at transferring his type of OPS. They said Mr O agreed to this and signed the 
servicing request, client  agreement and capacity for loss document. They also referred  to their advice 
letter outlining  the recommended product with full details of the investment manager  and all costs that 
would be payable to Copia.
When the complaint  first came to this service, Copia  said they didnt  provide the advice regarding the 
SIPP and were  not responsible for the main basis of the complaint.
They explained their understanding Mr O was a long-standing client  of Paula Reeves (the adviser). 
Mrs Reeves  had visited Mr O to discuss  retirement planning. And they say at this first Copia based 
meeting, a fact find and letters of authority were completed to allow Copia/ Mrs Reeves to obtain a full 
account of Mr Os pensions. When the details  for Mr Os Total  UK Pension Plan came into the office 
Mrs Reeves  contacted Mr O and arranged another meeting to discuss this.
Mr and Mrs O have stressed the trust they placed in the Copia  adviser who they had known for some 
time. They explained their understanding that Copia were advising  them and that the adviser had told 
them theyd need to follow a process  which included a company in London  (a fee would be required 
for this); but they felt it was important to point out that the end result was what  Copia  explained would  
happen. In their minds  they were following  Copias  process.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint. He considered Copia were  entitled to terminate the 
client/ adviser relationship with Mr O and we would not look to interfere with a firm exercising their 
legitimate commercial judgement. He also thought the charges paid to Copia had been sufficiently 
explained and had not been taken for the period  when Copia provided no service.
He concluded that he was only looking at a complaint about the advice given by Copia in respect of 
the use of a DFM as opposed to the transfer and opening of the SIPP which he considered in relation 
to SMP. He upheld Mr Os complaint against Copias  advice to use a DFM and set out what he 
thought they ought to be required to do.
More recently Mr and Mrs O have let us know they first came to know Copia as a referral from Paula  
Reeves who theyd trusted  as their financial adviser since her work at SJP in 2012 and Bright Wealth 
Management in 2014. They  say it was Paula Reeves  who would visit them at home  and who provided 
all the advice they relied on. They confirmed the plans transferred to SJP in 2012 were  transferred on 
advice from the same  adviser. 
Mr and Mrs O also provided a copy of an email  from the Copia adviser to Mrs O with the header 
Pension  dated 22 December 2015. This sets out that she is:
Just letting you know that all your paperwork has been submitted  to lifetime and we are just waiting  
for them to process. I will keep you informed. Have a lovely Xmas  and I will see you in the New Year.
Copia disagreed with the adjudicator and made a number  of comments. The adjudicator wasnt 
persuaded to change his opinion and so the complaint was referred  for an ombudsmans decision.
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Based on what  I have  seen thus far, I intend to depart  from the 
adjudicators view. I am sorry as I appreciate  all parties have been waiting to hear further for some  
time.
Ref: DRN63977116Subject to anything further, I intend to uphold Mr Os complaint against Copia. I dont think  they did 
what they ought  to have done. Consequently, I think Mr O transferred valuable benefits from his OPS 
unsuitably and has suffered loss. Had Copia done what they ought  reasonably  to have been expected 
to do, I dont  think this would have happened.  In the circumstances of this case, I accept Copias  
actions and failures sufficiently contributed overall such as to make them  liable.  I tend to accept 
whats said by Mr O and supported by what  has been provided. I think there was a real element of 
pre-determination already present at the time of introduction to SMP  and in the process, prior to the 
actions of SMP. I think it was the adviser from Copia  who directed Mr O and who both led and played 
an ongoing role during  the overall process.
Its right to acknowledge that SMP also played an important part in the process. Their  role was 
necessary to ensure  the transfer was completed as they had the necessary  regulatory  permissions. 
For completeness  it is my understanding that SMP are in liquidation and this is why the FSCS are 
accepting claims against  this firm. So, I am unable  to consider their role.
Having balanced  everything provided with real care I think  its right in the circumstances of this case, 
and subject to anything further  that is provided, to conclude that Copia are responsible for the losses 
that arise due to Mr Os OPS  benefits being  transferred into a SIPP.
I accept Mr O and his wife understood  the main guidance came from their Copia  adviser,  who theyd 
known for some years. I think it was reasonable for them  to understand this. I think  she introduced 
them to and led them through the process of starting the SIPP and getting Mr Os OPS  benefits 
transferred. And I dont think this was the right thing for Mr O to have done.
My understanding is that Mr O initially spoke  to Copia  about accessing funds  to enable  him to 
undertake a home improvement (kitchen renovation). I havent seen anything that suggests to me 
there was any real urgency to the kitchen  renovation  works. I am left with the impression this was for 
the benefit  of Mr and Mrs O to add to the enjoyment of their home. 
I am yet to see any documentation  from Copia  regarding contact  they had with Mr and Mrs O in 2015 
save for the letters of authority signed in the autumn of 2015  to enable Copia  to obtain information  on 
Mr Os arrangements with SJP and at least two OPS. 
But I find it hard to understand  why it was thought suitable to discount (or fail to consider)  other 
options to enable Mr O to generate funds for his home improvement plan, if that was what he wanted.  
Copia say they discounted  Mr O accessing funds from his arrangement with SJP due to the 
exorbitant  early exit penalty. This advice  hasnt  been  provided to Mr O in writing despite Copias 
submissions about the adviser reaching  this conclusion.  To discount for example the SJP funds 
simply based on a decreasing penalty (where  there was no urgency) is on the face of it, hard to 
understand.
I consider it extremely  unsatisfactory  that Mr O was guided to giving  up valuable guaranteed benefits  
without, in my opinion,  sufficient  understanding; and, in the absence of alternative sources  being  
adequately considered.
Mr O was aged 56 with no debts (save his mortgage)  and in full time employment at the time Copia 
were considering these matters in 2015.  I am unclear  how Copias reasoning  led to considering 
accessing Mr Os pension arrangements as a starting point for generating funds.
SMP recorded Mr O as saying he considered  his mortgage had too high a redemption  penalty to 
enable him to re-mortgage and SMPs  notes say that loans  and credit cards were  too expensive for 
him.
But SMPs notes disclose  a number of discrepancies that cause me to question the accuracy  of the 
information recorded in these notes. For example, they read that £50,000 plus was required for the 
kitchen and £5,000 for an emergency cash fund, (the final fund being set up with a £15,000 sum). 
Ref: DRN63977117In any event SMPs notes were generated after Copia  had spoken with Mr O. And I havent seen 
anything that suggests  to me Copia  (or SMP) requested  information on his mortgage or provided  any 
comparisons on costs  and benefits  regarding  loans, re-mortgaging and against using pension benefits 
to achieve the desired funds.
Considering the real value to Mr O of his final salary OPS benefits,  including it appears a guaranteed  
minimum pension (GMP);  I dont accept that had these  options been appropriately explored or 
assessed that Mr O would not have acted differently.
In considering this I have  also taken into account all that was known about  Mr O and his 
circumstances and the potential tax implications. The Copia adviser would  have been best-placed to 
understand the terms of the SJP arrangements,  having  put them  in place for Mr O in 2012  when she 
worked for SJP.
I think  by the time SMP completed their report on Mr O (and I have  seen nothing that suggests  to me 
Mr O ever met with SMP directly), the intention and process for Mr O to access his OPS  benefits was 
already decided. The Pension  Transfer  Analysis report itself only looks at the Total UK OPS benefits.
SMPs transfer analysis indicated that a critical yield of 9.88% was required to match the benefits that 
Mr O was giving up. It doesnt appear to me the calculation considered all that was already known 
about future charges  and Mr Os intended  future investment approach. 
I dont understand why the calculation assumes a penalty  to Mr Os OPS  benefits being applied  based 
on Mr O wishing  to take benefits from his OPS early (age 60 instead of 65) when  all other 
documentation consistently reflects Mr Os intention to retire age 65. This includes  SMPs own advice 
letter. 
The calculation used is intended to provide  an understanding  of the performance required by an 
alternative to match the benefits provided by the OPS.  I dont think  the calculation provided for Mr O 
was reliable. I dont think the approach or information used to complete the calculations provided the 
most meaningful or accurate  results  for Mr O.
But in any event a very high critical  yield was required here simply to match Mr Os existing benefits. 
SMP set out that their maximum acceptable critical  yield they use when assessing the transfer of 
Defined benefit schemes.  Their  rate is said to have  been 7.5%. And its right to say that SMP advice 
letter sets out that they urge Mr O to consider  whether he wants to lose guaranteed  benefits as they 
consider it highly likely his retirement income  will be lower if he transfers out of the scheme. But they 
go on to say that although  the critical yield would  usually cause  them to recommend  Mr O didnt 
transfer out of his scheme, because he wants to take benefits immediately the critical yield isnt 
relevant and should only be considered an indicator to benefits being given up.
The critical yield isnt reflected or matched by the level of investment return (or investment term)  
Copia went on to aim for using the DFM. I am not clear that Copias illustration  and advice on this was 
as accurate as it could  have been either. Ive seen that SVS were used as the DFM; this was not 
explained in the advice letter. The SVS fund selected was launched on 16 March 2015 so it had no 
investment history. The conclusions drawn  in 2016 about Mr Os investment experience and 
understanding, based  purely on his history as a member of two OPS and personal pensions are not 
sound in my opinion. 
Copia refer to Mr Os SIPP  in their advice  as his Total UK Pension with The Lifetime  SIPP. I think  
this name could only have contributed to a sense of confusion  about  the status of his pension for Mr 
O.
I dont accept what  Ive been told supports any conclusion  that Mr O had any form of meaningful 
investment experience or knowledge. I dont think  his prior pension contributions demonstrate this. He 
Ref: DRN63977118was the member of several managed OPS and his SJP arrangements had been  set up and advised  
upon (by the Copia adviser).
I dont accept Mr O had the requisite knowledge or experience  to appreciate  the extent  of what was 
being considered here. Nor to identify  errors  or real concerns in this approach and the very high 
critical yield required  to match his benefits.  I consider the information (even based on inaccurate 
information) strongly indicates against  a transfer. I think if Mr O had understood the risks involved,  
what he was giving up, or if hed been advised against  transferring, I think he would have acted 
differently.
It is clear there  was only a limited time available  for any investment strategy  to be put into place  prior 
to Mr Os intended retirement. I dont think it reasonable to have expected Mr O to have  sufficiently 
understood or been able to assess the information  presented to him. 
I think  this is a salient feature of Mr Os experience throughout the process  from first speaking with the 
Copia adviser in 2015.
As a consequence of the actions  of Copia  and SMP  Mr O unsuitably transferred his valuable  benefits 
from a fully funded final salary OPS. Based on what Ive seen this OPS (Total UK) would  have been 
his primary source  of pension income, which  I accept he requires. As opposed to the more limited 
pension benefits  held elsewhere.
I consider everything  that took place both unsatisfactory and irregular.  This was a time when I 
consider the industry  to have been well informed on the real dangers of transferring out of defined  
benefit schemes for members. And the importance of exploring all alternatives avenues  before  
advising or assisting a client  to do this. I think Copia  and SMP would have been aware of the 
regulators concerns about such activity and the real importance of ensuring clients properly 
understood what they may be giving  up.
I think  a pre-determined  process  was recommended, started and managed by the Copia adviser.  
I accept that based on what Ive seen SMP appear to have also failed to act and advise in such  a way 
as Id expect. But I am only looking at a complaint against  Copia  here, and their role. I dont think any 
failures of SMP in the circumstances of this case ought  reasonably to divest  Copia of liability  here. 
Although SMP  could have actively advised against the transfer, I dont think  that was ever going  to 
happen here. This activity has the hallmarks of a pre-determined  process, and indeed I think Copia 
continued to play an active role, even when  they tell us they had withdrawn. So I think what followed 
was reasonably foreseeable by the Copia adviser  (as well as unnecessary and unsuitable). 
I dont accept the actions of, or role played by SMP, breaks the chain of causation that commences 
with Copia.  I think  Mr O looked to Copia. In fact, I tend to think that even if SMP had prepared a report 
either refusing to assist  with the transfer or advising against  it, Mr O would  have returned to Copia for 
further advice. But this isnt what happened here.
Mr and Mrs Os trust and relationship lay with the Copia adviser and I tend to accept she remained  
the contact  point throughout  and provided and collected the documents  to be completed for example. 
Ive also seen  that only one phone call with SMP  is referred to by SMP, I dont think  there was any 
form of trusted  relationship (or advisory) established such as to replace that already in existence with 
the Copia adviser. 
Ive seen Copia refer to being assured by SMP that they spoke to Mr O on a number of occasions  by 
phone; I havent seen anything further to enable me to accept this took place.
I think  the role played by Copia  here was significant and substantial in causing  the unsuitable transfer 
to proceed. As I consider the role to be played by SMP was pre-determined prior to their introduction,  
I dont need to go on to consider whether Copia might  be entitled  to have assumed  SMP might have 
Ref: DRN63977119advised differently and would  discharge  their duties properly. Nor do I consider any breaches on the 
part of SMP to be sufficient  to break the chain  of causation here.
It is perhaps trite to refer to my powers  under the regulators  Dispute resolution rules (DISP),  but I 
hope they will provide some assistance here. By way of DISP 3.6.1:
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In determining whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case I have reminded  myself 
to take into account (under DISP 3.6.4) the relevant law and regulations, the regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, codes of practise and here, I think, industry  standards. And I have done so.
DISP 3.6.3 enables:
Where a complainant  makes  complaints  against more than one respondent in respect of connected  
circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine that the respondents must  contribute  towards the 
overall award in the proportion that the Ombudsman  considers  appropriate.
As Ive set out, here, I am only looking  at a complaint against Copia. I am not able to reach  any 
decision about a complaint against SMP. It may be, that had I both complaints and cases before me 
for decision, I may have  been required to consider  apportionment between  the businesses,  as 
appropriate. But that isnt the position and it doesnt make it wrong for me to conclude here and in the 
circumstances of this case, that its both fair and reasonable for Copia  to accept  full liability.
However, if Mr O has received compensation from another service  (such as the FSCS), then I would  
consider this something I need to take into account. So I expect any information on this to be provided 
to me as soon  as possible. As Mr O may be aware, when and if any claim  is submitted to the FSCS, 
they will have an interest in the recovery of sums thereafter, and this might impact on whether  any 
decision issued by this service can be enforced.
Based on what I have  seen I accept the Copia adviser recommended Mr O to transfer;  albeit I accept  
this was not directly  put in writing. She failed to advise on potentially more suitable alternatives. I think 
she introduced Mr O to SMP  and led Mr O through the process.  Ive seen the email from the Copia 
adviser from December 2015 and think this demonstrates her ongoing importance and guidance in 
the process. This is at a time that Copia suggested they were not acting for Mr O. I dont know what 
client agreements may have  pre-existed with Copia  and Mr or Mrs O prior to February 2016.  But I 
dont think Mr O ought reasonably  to have appreciated Copias position, that the adviser was not 
acting under the Copia banner  or as his regulated  adviser  during the time Mr O was completing 
papers for SMP. Any purported withdrawal by Copia from the advisory process  was not sufficient as 
to have any meaning in my view.
It seems to me Copia  accept advising at an early stage (in respect of where  Mr O ought to raise  funds 
from). The payment they received from SMP has been described as a form of introducers fee (said  to 
be17% of the fee paid to SMP which was 3% of the total transfer sum prior to tax free cash being 
taken). Here £6,298.02 was paid to SMP  from the transferred funds, of which £1,102.15 was paid to 
Copia. I think this provides  some further indicator of the importance  of the Copia advisers role here. It 
also raises  a question of conflict and incentive.
Im satisfied Copia was providing investment advice  and was subject to the relevant regulators 
Principles and Conduct  of Business Rules. I think the regulator has made its view clear  on the care 
and considerations to be applied in order to suitably advise on a transfer out of an OPS and into a 
SIPP. 
Its also right to note that a firm is expected to consider the suitability of the underlying investments to 
be held in it. Here I think its clear enough Copia  were always to be formally reappointed to arrange  
Mr Os remaining funds (once  a tax-free  sum was taken) to be invested into a DFM arrangement.
Ref: DRN639771110I should  add I dont accept  there was any need for a DFM here. I consider this to be another piece of 
unsuitable and unnecessary  advice and work.  And I tend to think it reflects  a process  designed  to best 
generate further and ongoing fees for those involved.
Mr O, is almost uniformly agreed an average investor with a balanced attitude  to risk. As I dont  think 
Mr O ought  to have transferred his OPS benefits,  I dont need  to go on to look in greater detail at the 
activity around the recommendation  of the DFM.  But I do accept  broadly, much of what was said by 
the adjudicator  about this. I think  there would  have  been  suitable, cheaper investments available  
meeting Mr Os attitude towards and appetite for investment risk. I dont think  that any strategy  
meeting his attitude and appetite would however  have  met the returns  necessary  to be sought to 
match the benefits hed given up in the time frame available. The additional cost here of a DFM  made  
that even  less likely.
I dont consider the regulators objectives were met by Copia. I dont  think Mr O received advice that 
was suitable for his circumstances. Nor do I think they properly considered his financial  situation and 
investment objectives and whether he had the necessary  experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks of the transaction. 
For completeness  and as part of my considerations of the overall process I have also taken into 
account the FSA Alert issued in January  2013. This was considered a repetition of their expectations, 
not a new approach:
 There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and Conduct of Business  rules  and also in 
established case law for any adviser,  in the giving of advice, to first take time to familiarise themselves 
with the wider investment  and financial circumstances. Unless the adviser has done  so, they will not 
be able to make recommendations on new products
Whilst I accept the regulator was particularly concerned with unregulated introducers causing 
investment in certain unregulated and non-mainstream  investments, I think the principle behind the 
alert was clear  enough; where advice  to transfer or switch  to a SIPP was given a firm was obliged to 
consider the suitability  of the underlying investment. The regulator issued  another  Alert in 2014. This 
included:
On 18 January 2013  we outlined our concerns  that firms were advising on pension transfers or 
switches to SIPPs without assessing  the advantages and disadvantages for customers  of the 
underlying investments to be held within  the new pension arrangement.Our  View
Customers have a right to expect an authorised  firm to act in their best interest, yet the serious and 
ongoing failings found at firms have placed a substantial number of customers retirement savings at 
risk. 
Where a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer will transfer or switch from 
a current  pension  arrangement to release  funds  to invest through  a SIPP, then the suitability of the 
underlying investment must form part of the advice  given to the customer. If the underlying investment  
is not suitable for the customer, then the overall  advice is not suitable.
If a firm does  not fully understand  the underlying investment proposition  intended  to be held within a 
SIPP, then it should not offer advice  on the pension  transfer or switch at all as it will not be able to 
assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable  and amount to conduct  that falls well short of firms  
obligations under our Principles for Businesses and Conduct of Business rules. In particular, we are 
reminding firms that they must conduct  their business with integrity  (Principle 1), due skill, care and 
diligence (Principle 2) and must  pay due regard  to the interests  of their customers  and treat them 
fairly (Principle 6) .
Ref: DRN639771111Despite the alert, some firms continue to operate a model  where they purportedly  restrict tier advice to 
the merits of the SIPP wrapper. We think advising on the suitability of a pension transfer or switch  
cannot be reasonably done without  considering  both the customers existing pension  arrangement 
and the underlying investments intended  to be held within the SIPP.
I think  the regulator  made its requirement  clear; and it didnt say these requirements fell away where 
more than one regulated  firm were involved  in the transaction.  
Under the provisions of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA 2000), firms had to be 
authorised to give regulated  advice. Copia  and SMP  were  authorised (albeit Copia didnt  have the 
necessary permissions  to advise on transfers here) and were bound  by the regulators Principles and 
Conduct of Business Rules. 
The FCAs  Principles  for Business are a general  statement of the fundamental obligations  for the 
firms it authorises. These include Principle 2, that a firm must conduct  its business with due skill care 
and diligence.  Principle  6, that it must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them  
fairly; and Principle 9, that it must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
In my view transferring out of an OPS, starting a SIPP  and crystallizing  benefits  is a complex 
transaction with a number of different factors to weigh  up and consider. Mr O was an average retail  
investor. There was a failure to sufficiently explore and advise on alternative sources of funding. He 
didnt have any experience  or knowledge of these type of transactions. Nor was there any clear  
urgency for it to proceed. I accept that Mr O may have received numerous documents  and reports  or 
even ticked a box to indicate  he understood the risks of the transaction. But Copia  and SMP  were the 
regulated businesses and I think Mr O was entitled to rely on them  to provide advice and assistance 
that was suitable to his circumstances. 
Copia were acting in their professional capacity and were required to take reasonable care to ensure 
the suitability of their advice and actions  and to act in Mr Os best interests.  I dont think  they did what  
they ought  to have done.
For completeness  I dont  think Mr O has pursued  his complaints that Copia  ought not to have 
terminated their advisory agreement with him or that they had received on going  fees.  If I am wrong 
about this, I should add that I agree  with the adjudicator on these  aspects. I think Copia  were  entitled 
under their terms to terminate the agreement, I havent seen anything that makes me think they failed 
to act within  the terms of their agreement or that here it wasnt properly communicated. I also havent 
seen anything  that makes  me think Copia  received any ongoing fees during a time when they were  
not providing  a service.
What I need to know
Has any claim been made to any other service (such as the FSCS) or party? If so, to whom  and what 
stage has been reached?  In addition  does  any other party  hold any interest  in the recovery of any 
monies arising from Mr Os complaint and what happened  here.
What I currently intend  to say Copia must do next
Had Mr O received suitable  advice I don't think he would have  transferred out of his pension  
arrangements held in the Total UK OPS.
Copia must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulator's  pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial  Conduct  Authority in October  2017. This calculation should be carried out as 
at the date of this decision,  and using  the most  recent financial assumptions published (at the date of 
my decision). In accordance  with the regulator's expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted 
Ref: DRN639771112to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr O's acceptance of the 
decision.
Copia may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions  (DWP) to obtain Mr O's 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a 'SERS adjustment' in the calculation, which will take into account  the 
impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mr O's SERPS/S2P entitlement.
The compensation  in respect  of any future loss should if possible be paid into Mr O's pension  plan if 
he can't be reinstated into the OPS.  The payment  should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldn't  be paid into the pension arrangement if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.  If the past or future  loss payment  into the pension  
isn't possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should  be paid directly  to Mr O as a lump  
sum after making a notional  deduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise  have been 
paid.
For example, if Mr O would have been yet to take a tax-free cash  sum from the occupational scheme, 
25% of the future  loss would be tax-free  and 75% would  have been taxed  according  to his likely  
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall  
from the future loss adequately reflects this.
My decision  is reached on the basis Mr O wouldn't have transferred, had he been suitably  advised. 
He would have remained in his OPS and taken benefits at his normal  retirement  age (65). Appropriate 
allowance will need to be made for any withdrawal Mr O took following the unsuitable transfer of 
benefits. Indeed, any withdrawal, income  or other payment out of the investment. I am not aware of 
any ongoing  withdrawals.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr O within 90 
days of the date Copia receives notification  of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Copia to pay Mr O this compensation.
It's possible that data gathering  for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken  to settle  
goes beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement  above - and so any period of time where the 
only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from the Department of Work and 
Pensions may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  won't apply.
This calculation for loss will take account of the fees and charges applied.
In addition, any payment arising from the loss calculation above, I think  its right for Copia to pay Mr O 
a sum of £550 to represent  the real distress and inconvenience I accept  he will have been caused.
Provisional decision
So based on what I have seen thus far, I intend to uphold Mr Os complaint about Copia Wealth  
Management Ltd. Copia will be required  to pay all sums  as set out above  to Mr O.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6397711