K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a number of unauthorised transactions  
on her account. 
background
Ms F saw some transactions on her account she didnt recognise. So she contacted  
Santander. But the bank only refunded some of the payments. Ms F said she only noticed 
the transactions when shed put Santanders  app on her phone. Shed been unwell and 
hadnt been able to monitor  her account as much  as shed have liked.  
Ms F said she contacted  Santander as soon as she noticed them. So shed  like the bank to 
refund all of the unauthorised payments.
Santander explained itd refunded transactions totalling £224.81 from the previous 13 
months. But some of the claims  dated back to 2015. And theyd been declined. The 
regulations only ask banks to investigate claims for 13 months. And Santander didnt have 
the records to look at the older payments in more detail. But it apologised for not letting Ms F 
know the outcome  of her claim. And it paid £50 compensation into her account.  
Ms F wasnt satisfied with Santanders response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He could see the terms of the account meant Santander  
would only consider refunds for a period of 13 months after payments had been  made.
He sympathised with Ms Fs situation. He could see shed  suffered from poor health.  And 
that wouldve  affected her daily routines. But he felt Ms F shouldve been  aware  of the 
incomings and outgoings of her account.  And he didnt  think Santander had done anything 
wrong.
Ms F didnt agree. So shes  asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. Shes suffered from a 
number of health conditions. And the transactions had only been for small amounts. So she 
hadnt noticed them until she downloaded Santanders phone  app. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how upsetting this mustve been  for Ms F. Shes noticed a number of 
transactions of her account which she doesnt  believe  are correct. But Santander has only 
refunded payments made within the last 13 months. So Ive looked carefully at whats  
happened. And what, if anything, Santander  needs  to do.
Ms F has suffered from poor health for a number of years. And I realise it wouldve made it 
more difficult to go through bank statements and check  payments in and out of her account.  
Ms F said it was only when she downloaded the Santander phone  app that she was able to 
spot the fraudulent payments.
Santander says Ms F has raised claims for other  refunds in the past. So it feels shes  been  
able to check her account.  And she shouldve noticed the payments and queried them at an 
earlier point.
Ref: DRN61255882I do sympathise with the difficulties Ms F has been through. But the role of this service is to 
see if Santander has done anything wrong. And I cant really  say it has. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of the account.  And section  7.2 states that Santander wont  issue any 
refunds for unauthorised payments if it hasnt been  notified within  13 months of the date of 
the payment.  
This time limit has been set by the banks regulator.  And Santander has said it doesnt 
necessarily keep enough records to be able to check  payments made  before  this time. So it 
isnt able to confirm Ms F is due any further refunds. Santander says its the customers 
responsibility to check  whats happening with their account. And to let the bank know as 
quickly as possible if there are any problems.
 
I can see Santander has refunded over £200  to Ms F. But the bank is bound by the payment 
service regulations 2017. And these rules  state a payment service  user is entitled to redress 
only if they notify the payment service  provider without undue delay, and in any event within  
13 months after the debit date. 
I realise Ms F will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant  say Santander has done  
anything wrong. And I wont  be asking  it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6125588