K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains Haven  Insurance  Company Limited  (Haven) unfairly refused a claim on his 
taxi insurance policy.
background
In April 2018 Mr T made a claim  on his Haven taxi insurance policy.  There had been a fire 
under the bonnet. After  Havens engineer  examined  the car it refused  to pay the claim. It 
said there had been  an electrical  short in the taxis  wiring. It said an exclusion in Mr Ts 
policy meant it didnt need  to pay the claim. 
Mr T says this in unfair. He says he should be covered  for any fire damage. He says the 
engineers inspection and report was inaccurate and biased. He thinks the exclusion 
Havens relying  on is unclear  so it cant fairly  use to it to refuse  his claim. 
Mr Ts also said that if hed known about the exclusion he wouldnt have  agreed  to take out 
the policy. But any complaint he has about  the sale of the policy needs to be against the 
broker that sold it, rather than Haven who is the policy provider.
Our investigator said the damage was electrical failure. So she thought  it was excluded by 
the policy and therefore reasonable for Haven to refuse the claim. Mr T didnt accept that. So 
the complaint  has come  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to make 
Haven pay Mr Ts claim or do anything differently.
Haven relied on this exclusion to refuse the claim:
What is not covered
Mechanical, electrical electronic computer or software breakdowns,  failures, faults or 
breakages.
It seems  theres been a mistake when drafting this exclusion  and there should be a comma 
between electrical  and electronic. Havens provided an updated  version of the policy.  A 
commas been added. So I accept that Haven intended for it to be in Mr Ts policy.  
Mr T says the version of the exclusion in his policy is unclear and ambiguous  so Haven cant 
fairly rely on it. I dont  agree with him. I dont think its ambiguous.  Its unlikely that Haven 
intended to exclude electrical electronic computer failures. That wouldnt make  much sense. 
So I dont  think its open to different interpretations.  Its clear  Haven intended  to exclude both 
electrical and electronic computer failures.
Mr T says the refusal of his claim means  his policy doesnt cover him for fire damage. I dont 
agree with him. His policy does cover him for damage caused by fire. But, as Ive said 
above, it excludes electrical failures and faults.  This is the exclusion  Haven  has relied on to 
refuse his claim. So I need to consider if the damage is electrical failure or fault.  
Ref: DRN60295572Having considered the available  information, mainly Havens engineer report and Mr Ts 
comments and photos, I think the damage probably  was electrical  failure. The engineers  
report says a wire seemed to have been affected by an electrical short.  And so an electrical  
short in the wiring was probably  the cause.  That seems reasonable considering the visible 
damage is mainly to the wiring loom. Although there is some limited flame  damage to a 
bracket and a sleeve.  So the damage  does  seem to be electrical failure and not fire. Mr T 
hasnt provided  anything from an expert,  like an engineers report, that makes  me think 
differently.   
Mr T says the engineer  ignored the presence  of an oil leak as a potential cause. But I dont 
think oil would have ignited  on its own.  It would usually  need something else for a fire to 
start. Mr Ts also says the engineers  report is based  on little more  than tugging a wire and 
pulling it loose. I dont  agree with him. Ive no reason to think the engineer failed to make an 
adequate inspection.
So I think it was fair for and reasonable for Haven  to rely on the exclusion to refuse Mr Ts 
claim.     
  
Mr Ts unhappy  Haven didnt provide him with a courtesy car. But I cant see that his policy  
provides that benefit. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Haven Insurance Company Limited  pay Mr Ts 
claim or do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6029557