K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Zebra  Finance  Limited,  acting as credit broker, misrepresented the 
terms of the fixed sum loan agreement he used to purchase a football  season ticket. He 
wants a refund for half of the cost as he says his season ticket was later suspended.
background
Mr C says he took out the fixed sum loan to purchase a season  ticket for him and his son to 
attend football matches together.  He says he wasnt advised of administration fees. And so 
when it came to the last payment he thought it was around  £12. But he says Zebra told him 
the payment required was £39.60  and when  this wasnt  paid it had arranged  for his season  
ticket to be suspended. He says hes ended up paying for half a season when he couldnt 
watch the matches and thinks  this should be refunded.
Zebra told us that Mr C had cancelled his direct debit and the December 2018 payment  
wasnt collected. This had left the account owing £39.60. It said Mr C had been in touch to 
explain he thought  this final payment shouldve been only £12 and that he hadnt  been 
aware of administration fees. Zebra said it had agreed to waive  additional charges of £35 if 
the balance was paid. But when the account remained in arrears  it said the season tickets 
had been suspended due to these arrears. Zebra told us that it advised Mr C that it would 
accept £39.60 to settle the dispute  but hed said he wouldnt  pay as hed complained to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said hed seen the 
written agreement which had stated that after the first payment of £65.34, all remaining 
payments would be £39.60. And he said that hed listened to a telephone  call from March 
2018 (when Mr C wanted to alter the date of the direct debit).He said the call handler had 
given the correct information  about  the payments and hadnt mentioned the final payment 
being any other amount.
He said he didnt think we could look at the cancellation  of the season ticket as Zebra had 
only acted as credit broker. And the creditor was R.
Mr C didnt agree and said he didnt think hed been treated fairly. He said the business had 
been aware of his complaint in January  2018  but hadnt raised  it until March. As its not been 
possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr C missed out on attending  matches after his season ticket  had been 
suspended. And I can understand  his disappointment at not being able to share this time 
with his son.
There are a number of elements to Mr Cs complaint but the starting point is the alleged  
misrepresentation of the agreement. Mr C is saying  he wasnt made aware of the 
administration charge and that hed been  told the final payment would be about £12 not the 
£39.60 that was charged.
Ref: DRN69864172Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  As credit broker  Zebra  is 
potentially liable for any misrepresentation it made in relation to the terms of this agreement 
which it brokered. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces a customer  
to enter  an agreement and incur  a loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
Ive seen a copy  of the pre contract  information  form supplied to Mr C. This contains the 
following statement:
The total amount  payable  = £421.74 being the sum of the total amount of credit  £396.00  and 
the total charge for credit £25.74 (the total charge for credit  comprising  interest of £0.00 and 
administration fee of £25.74).
The copy  of the agreement also contains  this statement. As the amount of the required 
payments was correctly  stated, I cant say theres  been any misrepresentation. It may be that 
Mr C didnt read through the agreement but that doesnt mean  Zebra  has misrepresented the 
terms. Its also clear  the administration charge is set out correctly.
Im aware Mr C believes he was  told in a phone  call he made to Zebra - to change  the date 
of his direct  debit payments - that the final payment would be only £12. Firstly,  Ive listened 
to the call recording and it doesnt  support his recollection. The call handler advised that 
payments, apart from the first payment, would be £39.60.  And as it seems  that by that time 
the agreement  was already in force anything said in that phone call couldnt have affected  
whether Mr C entered the agreement. Also, I think its probable  Mr C wouldve proceeded 
with the agreement even if hed been  aware  of the administration charge. It only amounted 
to a little over £2 per month and that he was applying for this type of loan suggests  he didnt 
wish to pay the whole price in a lump sum.  
Dealing briefly with the resultant suspension  of the season ticket. Thats not something  I can 
look at as that seems  to have been a decision made  by the football club. And its not a party  
to this complaint.  Whether the information  on which this decision was based  shouldve been 
provided is also not something  I can look at. If Mr C thinks there may have been a breach of 
his data protection rights he may wish to pursue  this matter with the Information 
Commissioners Office  which deals with such matters.
I also agree  with the investigators view that Zebra dealt with the complaint promptly after it 
was received. I cant see that it was raised  until March 2019. In the January 2019 phone call 
about the final payment theres  nothing  which suggests a complaint was being  raised.
Whilst I know it will be a disappointment to Mr C I dont think Zebra has acted unfairly  in this 
situation and Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6986417