K822xcomplaint
Mr Q complains about the end of contract  charges that were  invoiced by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  (MBFS)  when the hire purchase  agreement for a car ended.
background 
In June 2014 Mr Q entered into a four year hire purchase agreement for a new car. At the 
end of the agreement period Mr Q arranged to return the car.
The car was collected by a third party company on behalf of MBFS. Mr Q says that when the 
car was collected the agent said there wouldnt be any charges raised for the condition of the 
car.
However, after the car was collected from Mr Q, it was inspected and a report with photos  
prepared. This inspection noted  damage  to all four of the cars alloys, a dent and scratch  to 
the bonnet, a scratch on the wing and that the spare key was missing. An invoice for the 
damage was sent to Mr Q totalling  around £1,280.
Mr Q complained to MBFS. He said the car didnt have any damage at all when it had been 
collected and the spare  key had been placed  into the glove box. He said the collections 
driver had inspected the car and told him there would  be no charges imposed for the 
condition of the car.
MBFS didnt uphold Mr Qs complaint. It said that the collection drivers role was to check  the 
car was roadworthy before collection but they werent qualified  to assess  for damage or to 
make comments regarding  possible charges arising from the condition of the car. MBFS said 
it had raised Mr Qs feedback with the third party company that collected the car. That 
company had offered its apologies for the comments  made to Mr Q and said that training 
would be given in future to ensure  that similar comments werent made  to customers in the 
future.
MBFS said that at the start of the agreement it had provided Mr Q with a copy of its Vehicle 
Return Standards. It said Mr Q had had an opportunity to familiarise  himself with MBFSs 
fair wear and tear allowances.
MBFS said looking at the report on the condition of the car all four of the alloys  exceeded the 
2mm allowance and required  refurbishment, the dent to the bonnet  exceeded the 50mm 
allowance and the scratch to the wing exceeded the 25mm allowance and had gone  through  
the top coat, so both of these scratches  required repair.
MBFS said that the spare key had not been located and was marked as missing  at the time 
the report had been prepared. This meant the old key had to be de-activated and replaced. It 
said it was Mr Qs responsibility to provide the inspector, and not the collector, with both of 
the keys for the car so Mr Q had been  properly  charged for this 
MBFS did offer as a gesture of goodwill  to reduce the invoice by 20% if it was accepted  
within the next 14 days.
Mr Q was unhappy at MBFSs response  and complained to this service. Mr Q said that if 
hed been aware there would have been  charges for any damage  to the car he would have 
claimed on the minor damage  insurance  policy hed taken out at the time he acquired  the 
Ref: DRN66171472car. He also said it wasnt fair to be charged  when the collection driver had said there  
wouldnt be any other costs incurred, that he hadnt  been present when the car had been 
collected having left it with a family  member  and it wasnt  his signature of the condition  
report. Mr Q also challenged whether the car had been repaired before being sold by MBFS.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Qs complaint. He said that he thought  £150  
compensation would be fair for the comments made by the collections driver as to the 
condition of the car as this had caused  him distress  and inconvenience when the invoice had 
then been sent.
But our adjudicator said that the minor damage insurance policy taken  out by Mr Q had been 
for three years and not the full four years of the agreement. This policy  had been arranged  
via the dealership and not MBFS. Our adjudicator said he didnt think  the policy had been 
mis-sold as all the insurance  paperwork had been provided to Mr Q at the time, but as the 
policy was sold as a stand alone  product, and was not part of the hire purchase  agreement,  
MBFS wasnt responsible. He also said it wouldnt have been  for MBFS to tell Mr Q when the 
policy was coming to an end so he could  have renewed it if hed wished to.
Our adjudicator said the condition of a car handed back  at the end of lease or hire 
agreement was assessed using the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  
(BVRLA) Guidelines. These  guidelines  set the industry standard as to what  was fair wear  
and tear and what was damage deemed  chargeable. He said hed looked  at the photos and 
the report of the damage found on the car to asses whether the charges had been fair. He 
said he could see from the photos  that all four alloys were  scuffed and damaged and he 
thought the charges for these items were fair. In respect of the scratch on the wing he could 
see a deep scratch  that had gone  through to the primer and thought that charge was also 
fair.
Our adjudicator said that looking at the photo  of the bonnet he didnt think  a dent was visible  
but there was a deep scratch that had gone through to the primer.  He said it would be fair for 
the charge to be amended to a scratch rather than treated as a dent. MBFS had agreed with 
the adjudicators  view and reduced  this charge by £50.
Our adjudicator said the spare  key had not been located and there were no photos to 
confirm the spare key had been  returned  with the car. It was recorded  on the inspection 
report as missing though  Mr Q said he hadnt signed that report. The adjudicator said he 
thought this charge had been fairly  applied in the circumstances.
Our adjudicator said that although Mr Q said he wasnt present when the car was inspected  
it was still his responsibility to ensure the car was ready to be handed back.
Our adjudicator said that MBFS wasnt obliged to have the car repaired to enable it to charge 
for the damage.  The charges reflected that the damage may result in a loss of value for the 
car.
Mr Q disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said he firmly believed he didnt owe MBFS 
any money. He said if he had been told at the time of inceptions he would have got the car 
ready for them.
MBFS agreed with our adjudicators view that £150  compensation  was fair in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN66171473As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Q signed the hire purchase  agreement in June 2014  he agreed to be bound  by its 
terms and conditions. This agreement says that the vehicle  must be maintained in a 
condition that is consistent with the Vehicle Return Standards  and that a copy  of this 
document is in the Welcome Pack. Looking at the standards, I can see it sets out clearly 
what will and wont be acceptable as wear  and tear when the car is returned. So I dont think  
I can reasonably say Mr Q wasnt aware  of the standards by which the car would be judged  
when he handed  it back.
Mr Q says that as he had the car for four years it would have sustained  some wear and tear 
and I dont think thats disputed. The issue is whether the car had been damaged  beyond  
what would  be considered fair wear and tear. To ensure a consistent approach is taken the 
BVRLA guidelines are used to assess whether damage is chargeable or not. These  
guidelines are accepted  as setting the industry  standard and so applying  them  to the 
damage that was reported and photographed  on the car Mr Q handed back  I think  was fair 
and reasonable.  
Looking carefully  at both the guidelines and the damage shown in the photos Im satisfied 
that the charges have been  fairly  applied save that the bonnet should be treated as a 
scratch and not a dent.
I appreciate Mr Q says that had he been aware  the damage he thought of as wear  and tear 
was going to be chargeable he would have repaired the car in advance. However, Mr Q 
arranged for the car to be collected  and inspected on the same  day so there wasnt this 
opportunity. It would have  been  for Mr Q to make  an arrangement  with the third party  
company to have  a gap between the inspection and collection. 
On listening to the calls between Mr Q and MBFS, Mr Q says that he was called before the 
car was collected by the third party company and asked if it had any damage to which  he 
had replied no. I dont  know if he had said yes whether the company would have suggested 
two separate dates  for inspection  and collection.  
Mr Q says that he would have claimed  back the cost of any repairs on the minor damage 
insurance policy hed taken out with the dealership. But Ive seen this policy was for 36 
months and not the 48 months  that the agreement lasted. He had also taken out GAP  
insurance for the 48 months. These policies were supplied by the dealership  and werent 
part of the hire purchase agreement. This means  that MBFS arent responsible for the sale 
of the policies. But in any event I dont  think they were mis-sold as Mr Q was provided  with 
all the documentation  which shows the length  each  policy was taken out for. Ive also seen 
the Statement  of Demands  and Needs which shows that each of the policies was 
discussed with Mr Q including  the length  of time each one would be required.  MBFS also 
didnt have any responsibility to notify  Mr Q that the minor damage policy was coming to an 
end.
Ive seen that the minor damage insurance  policy had ended a year before the car was 
handed back. If any of the damage  to the car was more than 12 months  old then I dont 
Ref: DRN66171474know why Mr Q hadnt claim  on the policy at the time it had occurred rather  than leaving it. 
So I think its reasonable to say that in these circumstances that its more  likely than not that 
Mr Q would have had to pay for the cars  repairs in any event. It should also be noted that 
any repairs must be carried  out by an approved garage.
Mr Q is adamant that the spare key was left in the glovebox and that he told the collection 
driver where it was. He doesnt say he showed the key to the collection driver and he hasnt 
been able to provide any proof  about the spare key such as a photo. The third party 
company that collected the car says that the spare key hasnt been located. Looking  at the 
hire purchase agreement it was Mr Qs responsibility to ensure the return  of that key and so I 
cant say that MBFS has unfairly charged him for it being missing.
Mr Q says he wasnt present when the car was inspected and didnt  sign the report to say he 
agreed with its contents. I can see the report has a signature but I dont know  whether the 
person Mr Q left the car with when  it was inspected signed it or not. However, even if it isnt 
Mr Qs signature  I dont  think this would invalidate the report which includes photos of the 
car. Mr Q has accepted that there  was wear and tear on the car but hasnt agreed that the 
damage is chargeable.
Looking at the evidence I think MBFS has acted fairly in charging  Mr Q for the damage found  
on the car and for the missing spare  key. MBFS has agreed to amend the dent on the 
bonnet to a scratch and reduce that charge by £50. However, I think  Mr Q was caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience by originally being  told by the collection driver that 
there wasnt any chargeable  damage to the car. I agree with our adjudicator that 
compensation of £150 for that would be fair and reasonable.
So for the reasons given above  Im partially upholding Mr Qs complaint as I agree it was 
unfair for him to be told there would be no costs incurred when he returned the car. But I 
disagree that the costs for the damage should  be written off.
my final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mr Qs complaint. Im asking  Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  to pay Mr Q £150 compensation for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience  caused by being told no further costs would be incurred when  he 
returned the car. Im not asking Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  to waive  the charges for 
the damage found on the car save that the dent to the bonnet  should  be charged as a 
scratch.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6617147