K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) PLC mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  that Mrs W took out by post in May 2001. She applied 
for the policy shortly  after shed signed  a hire purchase agreement  to obtain a car. The PPI 
covered her if she was unable to work  because  of accident or sickness.  
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Toyota  
hadnt brought the pre-existing medical condition terms to Mrs Ws attention. And that, if it 
had done, she wouldnt have taken the policy.
Toyota didnt agree  saying, in summary, that:
Mrs W applied for the PPI by post.  She was responsible for reading  the terms and 
conditions and deciding if the policy was suitable for her - there was no opportunity  for a 
discussion where  the terms couldve been  brought to her attention.
Bearing in mind her employment, Mrs W mustve been aware of, and understood, the 
terms and conditions.
Mrs W signed to say she had read the summary of cover  and met the eligibility criteria.
If Mrs W had contacted Toyota to tell it she had a pre-existing medical  condition,  then it 
wouldve directed  her to the terms and conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Toyota didnt recommend  the policy to Mrs W, so it didnt have to make sure it was suitable 
for her. But it did have  to provide her with information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that she could  make  an informed choice about  the insurance  she was buying.
The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions.  Mrs W 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful sickness or disability claim for:
Any condition which is existing or which You knew about at the Starting Date, or of which  
You were exhibiting the symptoms whether specifically  diagnosed or not or for which You 
were receiving medical treatment or advice during the 12 months preceding the Starting 
Date, unless You have  been symptom free and have not consulted a Doctor or received 
treatment for the condition  in the 24 months  preceding Your claim.
Ref: DRN67698602Mrs W told us shed been diagnosed with a condition  around five years  before she was sold 
the policy. This condition  was long term and required regular medication. This condition  
wouldnt have been covered by the policy. And although Mrs W told us she hasnt had to 
have time of work  because of the condition, the nature  of it suggests to me that, when she 
took out the policy, she was likely  to have anticipated that any time off work would likely be 
due to this condition, or something connected to it.
This policy was sold by post.  And the obligation was on Toyota to make the paperwork fair 
and clear and to bring the key terms  including the pre-existing medical condition exclusion 
 to Mrs Ws attention. I dont find that it did this.
Ive taken into account that Mrs W signed  to say that shed read the summary of cover.  But 
this doesnt change my conclusion   there  was a lot of information to digest and the pre-
existing medical condition term wasnt made  clear enough  if it had been, I find its more  
likely than not that Mrs W wouldnt have  taken the policy.
And Toyotas comments about Mrs Ws employment  dont change my conclusion.
putting things right
Toyota should put Mrs W in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Toyota should:
A.Pay Mrs W the amount  she paid each month for the PPI.
B.Add simple  interest  to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back.  The 
rate of interest  is 8% a year. 
C.If Mrs W made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Toyota can take off what she 
got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
D.If Toyota has already  repaid any commission amount to Mrs W that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted  by Toyota from the redress shown  above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Toyota to take off tax from this interest. Toyota  must give 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  how much  tax Toyota  have taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Toyota Financial Services (UK) PLC should 
pay compensation as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6769860