K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that HSBC Bank plc will not refund any of the commission it 
received from their PPI premiums for the policy that they took out in 2007 to cover  their 
mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have  raised several  arguments relating to whether or not the PPI policy was 
mis-sold in 2007. But, to be clear, my decision only deals with their complaint about 
commission. Thats because theyve previously  brought a complaint to us about the mis-sale 
of the policy, and this was dealt with in 2012.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why below.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31 October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act.
As Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was taken out after 31 October 2004,  it was a regulated 
mortgage. And so it wasnt under the scope of the Consumer  Credit Act and the FCAs 
relevant rules and guidance dont apply. So HSBC doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P have  sent us extracts from both the FCA and HSBCs websites, saying that 
these support that commission should  be refunded in their case. But the websites are just 
giving general  guidance on when customers could make a complaint  about commission, not 
setting out exactly  when commission will and wont  be refunded. As explained above, Mr and 
Mrs Ps mortgage was a regulated mortgage,  so the relevant FCA rules and guidance dont 
apply and HSBC  doesnt have to refund  any of the commission in this case.
Ref: DRN67083152my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6708315