K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a dual 
credit card (MasterCard  and Visa). Mr W says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr W says that he thought he would have a better chance of getting  the credit  cards if he 
took PPI. Due to the time thats  passed, theres  not much information available about  the 
sale, and Mr W hasnt said much about  why he felt that this was the case. But this isnt 
usual for a sale that took place so long ago - businesses arent  required to keep records 
indefinitely, and I wouldnt expect  Mr W to remember in detail what  happened during  the 
sale.
Lloyds has been  able to confirm that the sale took place between the credit card 
accounts being opened in 1996  and the first available statement for the accounts 
(January 2000) which shows PPI. Because of the lack of information, I dont have 
enough to say that Mr W wasnt given a choice  in taking the PPI. And I cant  uphold his 
complaint for this reason
Its likely  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W  so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it could have been useful  for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI on Mr Ws Visa card to Mr W because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Lloyds has shown that Mr Ws MasterCard ended in 1999. As the Supreme Court ruling only 
applies to credit agreements which were taken out on or after 6 April 2006,  or still running on 
Ref: DRN634324526 April 2008, I dont  think Lloyds needs  to refund  any of the commission paid on the PPI 
policy associated with this card. 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr W the difference  between  
what Mr W owes and what  he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr W 8%* simple  interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6343245