K821x#15complaint
Mr F and Ms F complain  that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined Mr Fs travel insurance claim. 
My references to AXA include its agents.
background
Mr F and Ms F have  a joint travel insurance  policy, the insurer is AXA. As the disputed  claim 
is for Mr Fs costs Ill only refer to him in the rest of my decision. 
Mr F was scheduled to fly to a city in Italy but unfortunately his flight  was cancelled.  He had 
to find an alternative flight  that day as he needed to see his father who was very unwell. Mr F 
bought a flight to a different city in Italy with another airline and took a train then bus to reach  
the city where his cancelled flight  would  have landed. He claimed for his additional  travel  
costs on his travel insurance.
AXA declined the claim. It said Mr F hadnt provided  enough information from the airline of 
the cancelled  flight to show his claim met the policy terms.
Our investigator thought that even  if Mr F had provided enough information in support of his 
claim AXA wouldnt need to pay any costs. She said Mr F had been able to cover his costs  
from the airline who cancelled the flight and from compensation  for delay under the relevant 
European Union (EU) regulation for delayed  flights.
Mr F disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He says some of his expenses havent  
been reimbursed.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint and 
say AXA must reassess Mr F's claim. I said:
Mr Fs policy covers  him for travel disruption. The policy  says he has cover for reasonable 
additional travel  costs that he cant claim back from any other source if he has to make 
alternative arrangements to reach  his destination due to his booked flight being cancelled. 
The policy also says its a condition  of a travel disruption claim that Mr F gets written 
confirmation from the airline  of the cancellation  and details of any alternative  transport  
offered. AXA declined the claim  because Mr F hasnt been  able to get confirmation about 
whether the airline offered alternative transport.
Mr F has sent us evidence that hes tried to get the information from the airline. He says 
there wasnt a flight with that airline until the following day which  was too late when he 
needed to get to Italy urgently to see his father.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that if Mr F could have got an alternative flight  from the 
original airline he would have taken it, rather than do the convoluted journey he took. In the 
circumstances I think AXA has sufficient evidence and the claim must  be reassessed subject 
to the remaining policy terms.
The policy is clear that claims will be paid for costs that cant be claimed  back from any other 
source. Mr F told our investigator hed received a refund from the airline for his cancelled 
Ref: DRN65827652flight. He also confirmed hed received compensation for delay under the relevant EU 
regulation but didnt  say how much.
I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable for AXA to take into account the compensation 
Mr F received under the relevant EU regulation to offset the additional costs hes claimed.  
That compensation is for the inconvenience of the disruption the delay caused based on 
delay time,  not for financial losses. The Civil Aviation Authoritys website says care and 
assistance costs  are payable by the airline but those are specified costs  and dont include 
the costs Mr F claimed. 
AXA must reassess the claim in line with remaining policy terms, limits and excess.
AXA doesnt  need to tell me the outcome  of its reassessment in response to my provisional 
decision. It just needs  to tell me if it objects  to the reassessment, and if so why. Once  the 
reassessment had taken place if the parties  dont agree then ultimately Mr F can make a 
separate complaint to us.
further developments since my provisional decision
AXA agreed with my provisional decision  and reassessed the claim. It offered £31.68 to 
cover Mr Fs additional train and bus costs.  AXA told us Mr F had paid an excess waiver  so 
no excess was deductible.
Mr F confirmed he would accept £31.68  in settlement of his claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision AXA has reassessed the claim. The parties have  
agreed that Mr Fs claim  will be settled by AXA paying Mr F £31.68.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional findings  and these findings I uphold  this complaint. 
AXA must pay Mr F £31.68 in settlement of his claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr F £31.68 in settlement of his claim,  as the parties  
have now agreed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65827653
Ref: DRN6582765