K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  when 
he took out a credit  card in 2008  with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in June 2019,  setting  out why I thought 
the complaint  about the policy being  mis-sold  shouldnt be upheld.  I also explained  that Mr 
H had already been paid back  some money,  relating  to the commission Barclays got from 
the sale. 
I then asked both parties  to provide  any further submissions or information to me within  one 
month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It seems neither party wants to send in 
any new information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set 
out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
I therefore dont  uphold Mr Hs mis-sale  complaint. And I dont require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay any more compensation. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  Barclays Bank UK PLC has told me its already paid 
back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was above  50%
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69599232copy  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  when he took 
out a credit card in 2008 with Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this complaint and initially thought it could be one wed uphold. But 
Barclays sent in some  more information about the type of PPI it sold Mr H and our adjudicator took 
another look. This time they said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
In addition to this however, I can see Mr H has already  been  paid back  some money, for part of the 
commission and profit sharing Barclays received from selling him this policy.
Mr H disagreed with our adjudicator because he still thinks  the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place. So 
the complaint has now been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, I dont  intend to uphold the complaint  about  the mis-sale.  
By way of an explanation, I can see Mr H has had two PPI policies with his Barclays credit card 
account. The first relates to 2003  2008  when PPI was added to his card account  after he 
specifically asked  for it on his credit  card application form. There  were  two boxes about having this 
type of cover on the application form  a yes box and a no box. Mr H selected the first of these  and 
left the no option blank and the PPI was added.
Im not considering that particular policy here though because  Barclays says it has already agreed 
and paid to Mr H the full compensation  for him being mis-sold that PPI policy.
What Im now issuing is a decision on is the second PPI policy relating to 2008  2017.  It seems  this 
came about when Barclays  carried  out a financial review with Mr H in 2008.  This resulted in him 
being sold new PPI cover to replace the old policy.  But this time the PPI policy  was different;  it only 
covered him for accident  and sickness protection, rather than the more usual  PPI which also 
included unemployment protection as well.
I certainly dont doubt Mr H when he says he genuinely feels  this (2008) PPI was mis-sold to him in a 
similar manner to the first one. And I can fully understand why hed think that.
However, these events  were  a long time ago and I think that having already had PPI for 5 years, Mr H 
would have known about the type of cover he was being sold on this second occasion. Hed 
previously asked for this type of cover in 2003 and by 2008,  hed been operating a similar policy for 
some years with his card. He would  have also seen he was paying for PPI in the many monthly  
statements he would  have been sent and known what it was generally costing him.
It seems the financial review and PPI sale took place over the telephone in April 2008. We no longer 
have a recording  of the call, but weve seen quite few similar  sales to this one. As a consequence,  
weve looked very carefully into the type of processes Barclays used during these calls and the type 
of information it gave  to consumers.
Ref: DRN69599233We know, for example, that call-handlers were told to follow a specific telephone script  during which  
consumers were  given certain important pieces of information. Were  satisfied also that generally,  
consumers should have been  told the policy  was optional and not something they needed to buy. So I 
think its more  likely  that Mr H would  have known he had a choice and what  the PPI protection was 
for. And once  again, he would have been aware of the PPI charges showing up on his statements. If 
he hadnt asked for it, he would have wanted to know what the charges  were  for.
I therefore  think hes much  more likely to have agreed to the policy during that call.
Barclays concedes it recommended the PPI as part of an advised sale. This means it had a duty to 
make sure the policy was suitable  for Mr Hs situation. Overall I think  it was.
I say this because he was eligible  for the cover  and not caught by any of the major exclusions we 
tend to see in these policies.  I note Mr H was self-employed. Sometimes we do see situations where 
this can make claiming difficult and complaints,  like the one Ive mentioned above, do get upheld on 
this basis.  But thats for unemployment  situations and we now know  this policy was only for accident 
and sickness cover. Mr H would have been able to make a claim for those eventualities. 
The PPI would also have  been available  to pay off up to 10% of the outstanding  balance on Mr Hs 
credit card each month, if hed made  a successful claim. This wouldve  been in addition  to any other 
means he had in place at the time. But as a self-employed person,  I dont think hed have had any 
similar cover through his job. 
So my current  thinking  is that this 2008 policy, with only accident and sickness protection, was 
suitable for him.
Barclays had a responsibility  to make sure the information it gave Mr H was clear enough  for him to 
make an informed  decision. Obviously  I cant say it did everything right.  But I do think there would 
have been an exchange of information. Barclays also showed me its screen  shots from his account 
which tend to show there  was a discussion about the PPI and the answers he gave were  entered onto 
the computer  systm. So I think hes likely to have been able to make  an informed choice about what  
he wanted to do.
Which means I currently  think  that Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
H. But Barclays should  pay back some of the cost of the PPI to him because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and    profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Barclays 
didnt tell him, that was unfair.  
To put that right,  Barclays  has told me its already paid back  the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Barclays has a responsibility to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, with interest. I understand this has already  been done.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank  Plc has paid back to Mr H the commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I now invite  both parties to send in any further information they have by 17 July 2019.
Ref: DRN6959923