K821x#15complaint
Mrs K says Santander UK Plc (trading  as Alliance & Leicester A&L) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a loan in 2009.  Mrs K applied  for the loan 
and the PPI online and she paid monthly for the policy.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. A&L disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ks complaint because I dont think that A&L gave her clear 
enough information about the policy. And I think  that if Mrs K had been given better 
information its unlikely  she wouldve  taken  out the policy. Heres why I say this.
From information Ive been  provided with, I cant see that that the cost of the PPI wouldve 
been provided to Mrs K at any time before  she agreed to buy the policy.  It looks  as if she 
needed to use an online loan calculator to get a price for the PPI. But this wasnt an 
essential step in the online application so I dont  know  if Mrs K did this. And even if Mrs K 
had used it, A&L says the calculator wouldve  only provided an idea of the cost. 
A&L says that the cost of PPI was set out in a welcome pack sent with the credit agreement  
when the loan was approved. But by then, Mrs K had already been asked if she wanted to 
take out PPI, so she had already committed to buying it. 
I think that if Mrs K had been given information  about the cost of the policy,  it wouldve made 
a difference to her decision to take out the PPI. I dont think shes  likely  to have thought  the 
policy wouldve been good value for money taking into account  the monthly cost of the policy 
in relation to the cost of the monthly  repayments. 
So I think its unlikely she wouldve taken the policy out had she been given better 
information about the cost. 
And for this reason,  I think shes lost out because of what  A&L did wrong. 
Ref: DRN69849872putting things right
Mrs K should be put back in the position she wouldve been in now if shed taken out the 
loan without the PPI policy.  So A&L should:
Repay Mrs K the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, A&L can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
A&L has previously offered to repay a commission amount to Mrs K for the PPI sale. If that 
has already been  paid,  then A&L can deduct the sum already paid from the redress  now 
due.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires A&L to take off tax from this interest. A&L must  give 
Mrs K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc (trading as Alliance  & Leicester) to pay Mrs K as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6984987