K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that he was given unsuitable  advice by ICF Financial Services  Limited (ICF) 
to transfer his benefits from a defined benefit (DB) pension to a Self-Invested  Personal  
Pension (SIPP).
background
Mr M was an active member of his employers DB pension scheme with 37 years of service. 
He had requested  details  from his DB pension  and was sent information by the scheme 
administrators that showed a transfer value of £578,822.59.  His total annual  pension  in the 
DB scheme  was shown  as £14,328.96 per year plus a lump sum of £42,986.87 and a 
spouses pension  of £8,873.01. The normal  retirement age in the scheme was 60. Mr M was 
59 and was looking to retire when he was 60.
On 25 January 2017, he met with ICF to discuss his retirement provisions and have his DB 
pension reviewed. ICF filmed this meeting and have provided a recording  which  I have been 
able to watch.
A fact find recorded that Mr M was divorced, but he was living  with his long-term partner  who 
was financially dependent on him. He was also financially responsible for his 17-year old 
daughter who didnt live with him. Mr Ms assets were his main residence worth  £200,000, 
motor vehicles worth £40,000  and £20,000 in cash. Any assets  were  left to his partner and 
daughter in his will. He had no debts and no other investments or pension  provisions.
Mr M had a monthly net income of £2,622.  When asked by the adviser, he didnt  know the 
finer details of his expenditure but said overall it was about  £1,700  per month. His partner 
had no income. Mr Ms attitude to risk was recorded  as conservative and his capacity for 
loss as low.
Mr M told the adviser the majority of his colleagues had transferred their pensions  and 
everyone said the transfer was a no brainer, so Mr M said he was going with  the 
consensus. He also mentioned as he and his partner werent married, she might not get his 
spouses pension  from the DB scheme  if he died.  He had asked the trustees  about  this but 
hadnt been given a satisfying answer.
ICF sent Mr M a suitability  report  a couple  of days later recommending  him to transfer his DB 
pension to a SIPP for the following reason:
Your personal circumstances  would benefit from the flexibility provided by the pension
freedom legislation  at retirement.
The report  went on to say the alternative of taking benefits from the DB scheme was 
discounted because  Mr M would be unable to vary the income  that he took from the pension
and he wasnt able to leave his unused pension fund, with certainty,  to his partner and 
daughter.
A SIPP was recommended as it allowed Mr M to pass  on any unused  pension to his family 
and gave him control over his pension and flexibility on how to access his benefits.  Mr M 
agreed to ICFs recommendation to transfer  his DB benefits. In order  to transfer  Mr M had to 
withdraw active membership from the scheme  and had to give two months  notice. He would  
then become a deferred member.
Ref: DRN63959522In July 2017, ICF issued  a second  suitability  report which said should be read in conjunction  
with their first report. It repeated that it was important to Mr M that his partner and daughter 
could benefit from his unused pension, that he wished to take a variable income in a tax 
efficient manner and that he required a net income of £21,000 in the early years  of his 
retirement.
ICF recommended  to invest  his funds into a selection of Trustee Investment Plans (TIF) 
which would be held within a SIPP.  They recommended that about £180k  would be held in 
cash which would be used to pay Mr Ms income  requirements in the early years of his 
retirement and any fees and charges.  The rest was distributed to four different TIFs.
Mr M transferred out of his DB scheme and followed ICFs investment advice.
In 2018, Mr M complained  to ICF through a claims management company (R). R said Mr M 
was concerned that the advice to transfer  was inappropriate as ongoing costs werent clearly 
explained or illustrated. He thought he wasnt given sufficient and accurate information to 
make an informed decision about transferring his DB benefits to the SIPP. He also says he 
wasnt given a copy of the transfer value analysis report (TVAS). The complaint letter 
referred to Mr M having minimal knowledge  of markets and investments, not having taken a  
lot of risk in his past financial decisions and that his capacity for loss was low. R said Mr M 
believed he has paid for a suitability report which neither reflected his needs  nor correctly 
illustrated the ongoing costs and expenses. R wanted ICF to refund all adviser charges.
ICF addressed the charges  issue and rejected Mr Ms complaint on this basis. They  thought 
the charges had been clear. Mr M then referred  the complaint to this service. In his 
complaint form he said the advice was flawed. He was an unsophisticated  investor  and the 
real ongoing  costs of advice  and their adverse effect on investment growth werent 
explained. He said if he had seen the TVAS report he would have had more questions  and 
may have  chosen  a different option. R said in their accompanying letter to us that in 
hindsight Mr M would also question  the quality and accuracy of the advice given.
One of our investigators  considered the advice as a whole  and found  that ICF had given 
Mr M unsuitable advice. She thought Mr M should have stayed in the DB scheme and 
recommended ICF should compensate  Mr R in line with the regulators guidance on how to 
compensate unsuitable DB transfer  advice.
ICF disagreed. They were  concerned that Mr M initially only complained about charges 
which is what they addressed in their response  but that now the whole advice process is 
called into question. However, they subsequently  provided detailed submissions about why 
they thought their advice to Mr M was suitable.
The investigator didnt  change her mind and as no agreement could be reached  the 
complaint was referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63959523What is Mr Ms complaint about?
I understand ICFs concerns that Mr Ms complaint initially focussed mainly on charges, but 
now the whole advice process is being investigated. As a service  we have an inquisitorial  
remit to ensure we get to the heart  of a complaint and we can investigate the underlying 
cause to any concerns  that a consumer complains  about. The investigator  considered  whilst 
charges were at the forefront of the complaint, Mr M wasnt happy with the advice overall.
Nevertheless, to ensure  that I was considering the correct complaint,  I asked  Mr M to clarify 
what exactly he was unhappy  about. He confirmed  he was unhappy with the whole advice 
and thought he should have stayed in the scheme. He said he never was a big risk taker and 
he now understands he transferred into funds that didnt  suit him and charges were higher  
than he was led to believe. He said it didnt  suit him to lose guaranteed, index-linked 
benefits. He said the advice was flawed. He said his complaint focussed  on charges as he 
thought he wouldnt  get any more than that back as compensation. R later suggested  they 
could claim for more compensation.
No matter how the complaint evolved  and how much  Mr M might have been steered by R, 
its clear that Mr M wants to complain  about  the whole advice. ICF have submitted a detailed  
response about why they feel the advice  was suitable for Mr M, so Im satisfied they had a 
fair opportunity to defend  the wider advice complaint. So in this decision I have considered 
whether the advice to transfer his DB benefits  to a SIPP was suitable  in his circumstances.
Was the advice  to transfer suitable?
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. ICF should  
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was still in 
Mr Ms best interest.  (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied the transfer  was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
From the video recording from Mr Ms first meeting  with ICF, its clear that Mr M was keen to 
retire and was interested  in transferring his DB benefits as that is what  the majority of his 
colleagues had done. However,  it very much  comes across in the conversation that he 
wanted the adviser to tell him what was best.  
The reasons  why ICF recommended  the transfer were income flexibility and greater death  
benefits.
I first looked  at whether Mr Ms circumstances meant he had particular need for income 
flexibility. Mr Ms income needs in retirement werent  discussed in detail during this first 
meeting. Mr M said his outgoings were around £1,700, but its not clear what the breakdown 
of these outgoings was and it wasnt explored whether Mr M could  live on a lower  income for 
example. Instead  ICF concluded that Mr Ms expenditure of around  £1,700  meant he needed 
£21,000 per year in retirement. The adviser mentioned  how Mr M could take this income 
from a drawdown plan and then reduce his income  from his pension when state benefits 
started at age 66 which would be more tax efficient than receiving the same  income plus 
state pension  benefits. 
This was the only flexibility  that was really discussed and the subject was initiated by ICF 
and not Mr M. ICF didnt  demonstrate that Mr M really needed the flexibility  outside the DB 
scheme to vary his income  through retirement.  He seemed content with a steady income.
Ref: DRN63959524From what  I have  seen the option to receive this income by staying  in the scheme  wasnt  
explored. Whilst the starting  income  from his DB scheme was quoted as £14,328.96, Mr M 
also would  have been entitled to a tax- free lump  sum of nearly £43k. In the first meeting 
Mr M said he didnt  need  a cash lump sum for anything  in the short  term. So he couldve 
supplemented his fixed income  from the scheme with his tax-free cash to achieve an income 
of £21,000 per year if needed until he received his state pension. By the time ICF issued 
their second  report,  Mr Ms DB benefits were quoted as £15,556  per year and a lump  sum of 
around £46,700, so this was even more feasible.
Mr M would have lived on more tax efficient income  until state retirement age and I cant see 
that slightly lower tax payments after age 66 were more attractive  than having  a higher 
income going forward. So I dont think Mr M needed  the flexibility  of a drawdown plan and so 
it wasnt sufficient reason to transfer  Mr Ms pension away from the DB scheme and its 
guaranteed benefits which would increase every year. 
I can see that Mr M was worried his partner and daughter could miss out on death benefits if 
he died whilst in the DB scheme. As Mr M wasnt married at the time, his partner wasnt  
automatically entitled to his spouses  pension from the DB scheme. The DB members  guide 
stipulated that if a member didnt  have a husband, wife or civil partner the trustees may pay 
the pension to another dependant (which was defined  as anyone who in the opinion of the 
trustees relied wholly or partly on the members earnings). A member  could fill in a 
nomination form which  the trustees  would take into account, but they werent legally required 
to follow  those wishes.
Mr M confirmed his partner was on his nomination form.  Whilst there was a good chance 
Mr Ms partner  could  receive the benefits of the spouses pension  if Mr M died it wasnt 
guaranteed. It was dependant on the trustees discretion and whether they felt Mr Ms 
partner was a dependant. So I can understand that Mr M might  have wanted a bit more 
certainty around this. Its worth noting that, independent to the spouses  pension, if Mr M had 
died within  five years  of retirement, his full pension would have been paid for the remainder 
of the five years to the person on his nomination form as a cash lump sum, i.e. his partner. 
Similarly to the pension, the trustees werent  legally required  to pay the sum to the person  on 
the nomination  form but would have taken it into account  and as Mr Ms partner and 
daughter were also the beneficiaries in his will I think its very unlikely they wouldnt have 
received this sum.
Death benefits  are an emotive  subject and of course  when  asked most people  would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. So telling Mr M he could leave a large 
sum to his family when he died would have  sounded more attractive than the DB scheme in 
which ICF told him he was paying for a spouses pension that wasnt guaranteed. 
However, Im concerned  that it wasnt discussed  how much income Mr Ms partner and his 
daughter would have needed if he passed away. And whilst death  benefits might be 
important to people,  there  generally  shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this 
compared to the consumers  own retirement  needs. Mr M mentioned in passing that he had 
hypertension and his father had passed away at age 64, so thats why he wanted to retire  
early and enjoy  his retirement whilst  relatively young. However, he stated  his general health 
as good and based on a longevity  calculator ICF used, life expectancy  for half of the men 
of Mr Ms age was 93 and a quarter  would live to age 99. So more  focus  should  have been 
on ensuring Mr M would  receive his required income over a long period of time, rather on 
what would  happen  if he died within a few years. 
Ref: DRN63959525In the first meeting Mr M asked about  life insurance and whether he needed  it as when he 
was still working he had death in service benefits.  ICF referred  to his transfer value of £580k 
and that if he died the pension pot would go to his family. If Mr M didnt think this was 
enough he could  get life cover but ICF thought  it probably wasnt  really needed in his 
situation. If one of the drivers for a transfer  are death benefits then life insurance should be 
considered as an alternative. Mr M even mentioned life insurance and obviously was open to 
discuss this. Of course this would have  come at extra cost. But although Mr M mentioned he 
had hypertension,  he said he was generally in good  health and so I dont think a term 
assurance policy for a reasonable  amount of cover would have necessarily been 
prohibitively expensive.  
 
A life insurance policy could have been  adjusted to only cover what Mr M thought his 
beneficiaries really needed.  And it would have  been  guaranteed. Whilst the pension transfer 
value was high and if Mr M died within a few years after retirement  the death benefits would 
have been significant, these benefits  would have decreased every year by Mr M withdrawing  
income and could be further eroded by ongoing charges and possible low investment 
returns. Again I havent seen evidence that this was all properly explained. 
Mr M had no investment experience. His attitude to risk was conservative  and his capacity 
for loss was low as this was his only pension which would be the future income he and his 
partner relied on. He was advised  to transfer  into a drawdown plan which was costly  and 
exposed him to the risk of his new pension  plan not being able to support the same level of 
income that his DB pension would. So he was risking being worse  off in retirement.
R has put a lot of emphasis on the TVAS report and that this wasnt  provided. At the time of 
the advice, a TVAS  report was not a regulatory  requirement when a customer  was less than 
12 months from retirement which was the case here.  And these reports  are lengthy and 
contain lots of detail which is why the key messages are usually explained in the suitability 
report. I dont think  Mr M having not having a copy of the TVAS necessarily made a 
difference here. 
Having said that, when making a decision to transfer  DB benefits,  its fundamental a 
consumer knows what their benefits  might look like in their new plan to understand the 
differences. I appreciate that Mr Ms DB scheme would only issue a guaranteed  transfer  
value once Mr M had retired and had become a deferred member of the scheme,  but ICF 
could have given  him comparisons based on the non-guaranteed transfer value he was 
provided with to give him an idea of what his benefits could  look like in retirement.
Its unclear what exactly happened  after Mr M had accepted the recommendation to transfer 
in January 2017. ICF was only able to provide  a recording of the first meeting and the 
second suitability  report focuses on the investment recommendations, so Im not satisfied 
that the risks of drawdown were  properly explained. 
In relation to benefits Mr M could receive from the SIPP,  the first suitability report only 
mentioned that if Mr M lived beyond  his 90s, it was likely he would receive  more  benefits 
from the DB scheme than he would by transferring the pension  where  the fund could be 
exhausted by taking regular income  over a number  of years.  
I think this gave the impression that unless Mr M lived into his nineties he would be better off 
in the SIPP.  However,  this wasnt necessarily the case. How much income he was able to 
withdraw from his SIPP  and how long his funds  would last, depended  on investment returns. 
And it didnt  make it clear  that if he did live into his nineties, his funds could  run out 
Ref: DRN63959526completely at some point  or he might  have to significantly reduce his income. At that point 
there would also be no death benefits  left, which I think would have been another  relevant 
consideration given Mr Ms partner  was 14 years younger than Mr M.
ICF provided some cash  flow analysis illustrations which were produced  in May 2017, so its 
possible these were  shown to and discussed  with Mr M. However, even if this was the case,  
by this point Mr M had already been  given  the recommendation to transfer. Whilst he was 
still a deferred  member and so theoretically  could have decided  not to proceed,  I think any 
information he would have been given  after the first suitability report would have been seen 
by him in the light of ICF considering a transfer was the right thing  to do. Essentially  this sort 
of information  should have been provided  before the recommendation to transfer was given.
I also note that the SIPP  illustration that was produced in July 2017 before the second 
suitability report was issued showed projections of Mr Ms benefits, however instead  of 
assuming an income of £1,750 per month,  the illustrations showed how Mr Ms pension  
would develop with an income of £1,750 per year.  So the numbers shown would have been 
completely distorted showing Mr M incorrect higher  projections.
The cash  flow analysis  showed that if Mr M took a steady income  of £21,000 per year his 
pension funds could  last until age 103. However,  from age 77 onwards Mr M would be 
receiving a lower annual income  than if he had stayed in the DB scheme. And the analysis 
also assumed an investment growth rate of 4.25%. The regulators growth rates at the time 
were 2% for low growth, 5% for medium and 8% for high. Given that Mr M was a cautious  
investor there was a risk a 4.25% growth level would not be achieved particularly with £180k  
being recommended  to remain in cash, so the fund could be eroded  quicker than this and 
was unlikely to last longer or enable  higher  withdrawals.
In summary,  I think Mr M could have covered his income needs  with the benefits from his DB 
scheme and would have been  entitled to a guaranteed and secure income  which 
continuously increased with inflation.  There was a good chance that his partner  would 
receive the spouses pension, but he also could have bought  additional life cover  to make  
sure his partner and daughter were covered when he died if he wanted  this to be 
guaranteed. Mr M said he was planning to marry  his partner,  so if he did he could have even 
reduced the life cover  accordingly as she would  have  then been  automatically entitled to his 
spouses pension.  
I think it wasnt in Mr Ms best interest  to transfer  out of his DB scheme in order to have the 
same or less income  over the years with little chance to be able to receive more, only to 
have flexibility he didnt  really need  and different death benefits which  he could have secured 
in alternative ways.
I think if ICF had recommended Mr M to stay in the scheme and maybe  pay for reasonable 
life cover,  he would  have  stayed in the scheme until age 60 and then retired with his DB 
pension.
I appreciate that when  Mr M transferred he took a large sum of tax-free  cash and used this 
to purchase a buy-to-let  property which  he gifted  to his partner and which now provides a  
rental income of around £6,600 per year. ICF says he wouldnt have been able to do this if 
he had stayed in the DB scheme  and has now secured additional income for his partner and 
a further asset  shell  continue to have after his death. So they say hes better off by 
transferring.
Ref: DRN63959527Although Mr M says he would have  bought  a house anyway with or without the transfer, Im 
not convinced  he had the necessary liquid assets to do so without the higher tax-free cash 
the transfer allowed him to have. So I think its likely he wouldnt have bought  the property if 
he had stayed in the DB scheme  (at least not so shortly after he retired).  However, from 
what Ive seen Mr M didnt have this plan when he was recommended to transfer. The fact 
that he decided  to use the money available to him after the transfer doesnt mean he 
shouldnt have been recommended to stay in the DB scheme.
Mr Ms partner  now has an additional  asset  which at the moment generates  a good rental  
income but which wont necessarily always be guaranteed. And having  taken this tax-free 
cash, Mr Ms remaining  funds are now significantly lower and are even  more  at risk to run 
out or not being able to support his required income  over his lifetime. So Im not satisfied  
hes necessarily better  off in the long-term  than if he had stayed  in the DB scheme.  
putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr M as far as possible,  into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained an active member in the DB scheme  until age 60 and then taken his DB benefits. 
ICF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance  17/9: 
Guidance for firms  on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
When comparing the value of Mr Ms DB benefits  with his current  SIPP  value, ICF can add 
Mr Ms withdrawals  to date from the SIPP to its current  value.
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. ICF must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
ICF must re-run  the calculation within a month of the amended guidance being published  
ensuring that any shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly made up to Mr M. 
ICF need  only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments currently  planned  
by the FCA. ICF does  not subsequently  need to recalculate following any further 
amendments the regulator might later make. 
Alternatively, ICF may wait until publication of the FCAs amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr M in 
this case.
ICF may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain  Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
Ref: DRN63959528take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mr M within  90 days  of the date 
ICF receives notification of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes ICF to 
pay Mr M.
If ICF chooses to wait until publication of the FCAs amended Finalised Guidance before 
calculating and paying the compensation, the 90 days will start from the date the FCA 
publishes this amended guidance.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and request  ICF Financial Services Limited to pay Mr M the 
compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN63959529Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6395952