K820x#14complaint
Miss A and Mr B complain that Lloyds  Bank  Insurance Services Limited unfairly  voided  their 
buildings and contents insurance policy, treating it as if it had never  existed. Miss A and Mr B 
would like their policy to be reinstated,  the claim paid in full and compensation offered  for 
Lloyds poor handling of the claim. 
background
Miss A and Mr B made a claim  on their buildings and contents insurance on the 
22 September 2018 following a burglary at their home.
Lloyds said it cancelled  Miss A and Mr Bs policy for misrepresentation when it discovered 
the discrepancy in previous claims made. But it offered Miss A and Mr B £70 compensation 
for delays  during both claims. Lloyds said that Miss A and Mr B disclosed theyd had one 
previous claim within the past three  years  for contents insurance, but in fact theyd made two 
claims during this period. And they wouldnt have offered Miss A and Mr B the policy had it 
known about their claims history.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss A and Mr Bs complaint and didnt think  Lloyds
needed to do anymore. They contacted Lloyds to confirm whether the policy was voided
from inception  and Lloyds confirmed this was the case. They  also thought  the £70
compensation offered to Miss A and Mr B was fair.
Miss A and Mr B didnt agree with our investigators  outcome. Saying:
they acted in a clear  and transparent way and provided Lloyds with the information
they asked for throughout the process
their family suffered because Lloyds didnt make  satisfactory repairs to the property
after the burglary
they disclosed all of our previous claims to the best of our knowledge  including two
claims for laptops which occurred within a month  of each other
they had every reason to believe the two laptops were dealt with as one claim
they had no reason  to say there was one contents claim instead of two
Lloyds were willing to accept their money and suggest they were insured
As Miss A and Mr B didnt  agree with our investigators opinion the complaint was passed  to 
me for a decision. 
On the 2 December 2019  I issued my provisional  findings  in which  I explained Id reached 
the same  conclusion as the investigator but for slightly different reasons. I asked for 
comments from both parties by the 16 December 2019. 
Lloyds responded to say they accepted my provisional decision.
On the 17 December 2019 Miss A confirmed  theyd received my provisional  decision  and 
there were some points  they didnt agree with. Miss A asked for an extension to provide 
further information and this was agreed until the 24 December  2019. But, Ive not seen any 
further information from Miss A and Mr B.
Ref: DRN65740752my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In my provisional decision I said:
My role here is to decide whether Lloyds was entitled to void Ms A and Mr Bs policy  and not
pay their claim  for the burglary they reported.  In reviewing this complaint, Ive considered  the
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the
obligations of a consumer when entering  into an insurance contract  and the remedies
available to an insurer if a consumer fails to fulfil their obligations  if it can show they made
what the Act describes as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Firstly, Lloyds needs to show  that by answering this question in the way Ms A and Mr B did
they failed to take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation. I think  that Lloyds have
shown Ms A and Mr B failed to take reasonable care. I say this because one of the
considerations under CIDRA  is how clear  the question the consumer was asked was. On the
application for insurance Ms A and Mr B were  asked in the last three  years, how many  paid
contents insurance claims have you, or anyone  currently living with you, had? Ms A and
Mr B answered this as one occasion. Ive seen  evidence   and Ms A and Mr B have
confirmed  that they had two paid contents insurance claims over the past three years.
Lloyds have shown  that it wouldnt have offered Ms A and Mr B a policy on the terms they
received it. In my view this means  that Lloyds has evidenced there was a qualifying
misrepresentation.
CIDRA says a qualifying  misrepresentation  can be considered as careless, deliberate or
reckless. In this case Lloyds have indicated Ms A and Mr B made this misrepresentation
recklessly by voiding the policy from the date of inception. CIDRA  defines the qualifying
misrepresentation as either deliberate or reckless  if a consumer:
(a) Knew that it was untrue or misleading,  or did not care whether or not it was untrue  or
misleading, and
(b) Knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the
insurer or did not care whether or not it a relevant to the insurer.
Ive carefully considered  what Ms A and Mr B and Lloyds have told us, and Im persuaded
Lloyds has acted fairly in treating the misrepresentation  in this way. I say this because  Ive
seen evidence Mr B was sent a letter from his previous insurance company, Ill call A,
notifying him of the two claims. And Ive seen a copy of Ms A and Mr Bs bank statement at
the time the claims  were settled by A. In this statement its clear  that two payments were
made to Ms A and Mr B, under two claim references  with the excess  deducted. Im
persuaded enough that Ms A and Mr B knew or ought to have known theyd had two
contents insurance claims within the past three years. In these circumstances I think it was
reasonable for Lloyds to void the policy, retain  the premiums and not settle  Ms A and Ms Bs
claim.
service issues
Ive thought about the service issues Ms A and Mr B have  raised. But, as Im satisfied it was
fair for Lloyds to void their policy from inception, Im agreeing that Lloyds  can treat the policy
Ref: DRN65740753as though it never existed. In doing so I cant assess whether Lloyds met their obligations
under a policy which didnt exist.
I understand that the £70 in compensation Lloyds previously offered is still available  to Ms A
and Mr B. If theyd like to accept this then they will need to contact Lloyds directly. 
As Lloyds  accepted my provisional decision and Ive not received any further representations 
from Miss A and Mr B I see no reason  to change the outcome I reached  in my provisional 
decision. 
I realise will be very disappointing to Miss A and Mr B, but I dont think  that Lloyds need  to 
do anything further  here.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above my final decision  is I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 January 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6574075