K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limiteds dealt with his claim made  under his 
former employers private medical insurance policy.
All references in this decision  to Aviva include its administrative agents.
background
Mr Ps former employer held a private medical  insurance policy  to cover certain employees, 
also known as group  members. While employed, Mr P made a claim for a medical  
condition that required treatment over a period of time. 
When Mr Ps employment ended in April 2017, Aviva continued to pay for his treatment until 
October 2017 when  it realised it had made  a mistake and explained that it should  have 
stopped the claim  once  he was no longer employed by the policyholder, as per the policy 
terms.
Mr P was unhappy since hed made his claim when he was employed by the policyholder  
and was covered  by the policy. He believed Aviva  should continue  to cover treatment for the 
condition in its entirety. 
Aviva apologised to Mr P for its mistake and offered to pay him £500 as compensation for 
his loss of expectation or to continue to cover him on an individual basis and waive  all 
backdated premiums.
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, Mr P brought his complaint to us. After  our adjudicator 
looked into the complaint and recommended that it shouldnt be upheld, Mr P asked that his 
complaint be reviewed afresh by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that Aviva made a mistake  by continuing to deal with Mr Ps claim after his 
employment with the policyholder ended. I say that because the policy  terms say, among 
other things:
Claims may only be made for treatment actually  given  during a period of cover  and 
benefit will be available only for expenditure incurred prior to the expiry or termination  
of such a period  of cover. 
The policy terms also say the policy will cover group members  defined  as an employee  of 
the policyholder  who is designated as being  eligible  for inclusion in the group in accordance  
with the terms of the agreement.
With this in mind, I dont agree with Mr P that Aviva should  cover his ongoing treatment, for 
all aspects of the medical  condition,  to its conclusion. Instead, I believe the policy terms 
Ref: DRN64828272allowed Aviva  to stop further claim payments  for treatment received after his employment  
ended.
 
The mistake  Aviva made was that it didnt stop the claim once Mr P left his former employer. 
Rather it continued to pay the claim for a time despite what the policy terms said. This 
mistake was compounded  by the fact that it wasnt discovered until just before Mr P was due 
to undergo surgery  surgery  that Aviva had already authorised. 
 
So the issue  Ive considered is whether Avivas  acted fairly in putting things right for Mr P as 
a result of its error. After careful  consideration, overall I think  it has. 
Essentially, once Aviva realised its mistake it apologised  to Mr P and, in November 2017, 
offered one of two options. Either he could: 
accept £500  as compensation for his loss of expectation and for his impending 
surgery not being covered by the policy; or
obtain a quote for his cover to continue on an individual basis, with Aviva waiving all 
backdated premiums  and with Mr P only paying the premiums from November 2017 
onwards. His surgery would then be covered under the new policy.
I realise the news from Aviva would  have come as a great disappointment to Mr P, not least  
because he received it after his surgery was authorised.  But Id emphasise  that Avivas  error 
meant it covered  Mr Ps treatment between April and October 2017 which  otherwise he 
wouldnt have received privately  or which hed have  had to pay for himself   either directly 
with the provider or indirectly via an individual policy.  
By accepting  the first of the above  options,  Mr P would have received £500  as compensation 
for either having  to undergo surgery through the NHS or to put towards funding it privately. 
By accepting  the second option, Mr P would have had his surgery covered under a new 
policy and wouldnt have  had to pay any premiums dating back  to before November 2017.
In the circumstances, and despite the points Mr Ps raised, I believe the two options  offered 
by Aviva represented a fair response  to the problems he was caused. As such,  I dont 
believe Avivas treated Mr P unfairly overall.     
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6482827