K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that UKI Limited (UKI) avoided her car insurance  policy  after her car was 
stolen. And that it activated her cars tracker without her prior agreement.  
background
Mrs J took out insurance for her car, which Ill refer to as a RR brand. She applied for the 
policy online  through a comparison website. And accepted RR Sport as the type of car she 
was insuring. When answering the application questions Mrs J was asked: Has the vehicle 
been modified  in any way? and she answered No. 
After the first year, Mrs J renewed  her car insurance with UKI. During  the second year, 
Mrs Js car was stolen. She contacted UKI and at this point it became aware that Mrs Js car 
had been modified by a company which I will refer to as O. UKI told Mrs J it doesnt insure 
cars with this type of modification.
Mrs J said she didnt know the car had been modified by its previous owner  and said hed 
not told her anything about this. She said she thought O was a type of RR model  and 
didnt know this wasnt a standard type of car. She said her car had O badges, TVs and 
other extras which she thought were all related to it being an O model.  
UKI said by not disclosing  the modifications when  taking  out the insurance, Mrs J had made 
a reckless misrepresentation  and it avoided her two policies  from inception. 
Mrs J complained. She said shed answered  the questions to the best of her knowledge and 
using her cars log book.  She said she didnt know shed done anything  wrong  and thought 
she should have  been asked whether her car was a different type of RR. She said it felt as 
though she had been treated like she had made a fraudulent claim and that this had upset 
her significantly. Mrs J also said she was unhappy that her cars tracker  had been  activated 
without her knowledge or permission. 
UKI said it accepted  Mrs J was unaware  that her car had been modified and that she thought 
O was the model  of the car. However, it said when  applying  for the policy, Mrs J had 
selected RR Sport as the type and model of her car. It said that if she believed her car was 
a RR Sport O she should  have made contact to query this, as the car description didnt 
match. UKI said Mrs J hadnt mentioned her car was an O before she reported it stolen. 
And if shed  done  so, it would have been  unable  to provide cover. 
UKI said it still believed  Mrs J had been reckless  in failing  to ensure shed declared all of the 
correct information  in her application. And because  of this it thought it was entitled to avoid  
her policy.  
In regards to the tracker,  UKI said that activating  a tracker is normal  practice  when a car has 
been stolen. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. 
Mrs Js stolen car was later tracked down and returned to her. She said she paid £660 in 
recovery and repair costs.  She said she was so upset by both the theft and the issue of the 
avoided policy, that she sold the car at a loss after it was repaired. 
Ref: DRN64910872And so its for me to make a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
When reviewing this complaint I considered the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA sets out the roles and duties of the consumer 
and insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer  under  a 
duty to take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation (such as giving untrue or 
misleading answers). 
Modifications to the car 
Mrs J incorrectly  answered No to the insurers question about  modifications, as her 
car had been  modified. After the first year, Mrs J renewed her insurance with UKI. It 
seems the documents it sent referenced Mrs Js car as an RR sport  in line with the 
original application.  
I said I thought it was unlikely that someone  whos not a car enthusiast or expert 
would know O indicated after-market  modifications without being told. So I accepted 
Mrs J didnt know her car had been  modified.  
Mrs J applied for her policy online.  She said she thought the information  was correct, 
as shed entered her licence plate number  and the car description generated 
matched the information on her cars log book. So I said I was satisfied Mrs J took 
reasonable care by checking the information against her log book, and making sure 
the details matched.  I didnt think UKIs  suggestion she should have checked further 
was reasonable.  
I accepted that UKI doesnt provide cover  for RR cars modified by O. However, 
I said as I didnt  believe Mrs J knowingly failed to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation,  I didnt think UKI had shown  there  was a qualifying  
misrepresentation under CIDRA.  Because of this, I didnt think  UKI was entitled  to 
avoid Mrs Js original policy. And I didnt think UKI was entitled to avoid Mrs Js 
second policy from renewal. 
I said this meant UKI shouldnt have avoided either of Mrs Js policies or refused her 
claim. Mrs Js second policy should have continued. And if it had and Mrs J had had 
her claim accepted, UKI would have assessed it and established the repair  costs 
were minimal. Mrs J has said that since finding  out the cost of recovering and 
repairing the stolen  car was relatively low, she wouldnt have continued with her 
claim. 
What needs to happen next?
Due to the avoidance  of the two policies, UKI issued Mrs J with a refund of her 
premiums. I said Id established that I didnt think the policies should have been 
avoided, so Mrs J will need to return the premium  refund to UKI.
Ref: DRN64910873I said after Mrs J returns the premium refund, UKI should  provide her with a letter  of 
correction confirming  that her policy was avoided  in error. Mrs J can provide this 
letter as evidence to her current insurer. 
UKI said it hasnt recorded the avoidance  of Mrs Js policies on any external 
databases. However, I said it should  check  this, and remove any entries on internal 
or external databases about  it. And if UKI has recorded a claim against  Mrs J in 
relation to the theft of her car, this should  be amended on both its own and any 
external databases  to show  notification only. 
I said I recognised Mrs J was caused  considerable distress  due to UKI avoiding  her 
car insurance policy. And before  the car was recovered, she had potentially lost its 
total value. So in these circumstances, I thought shed experienced significant 
distress and inconvenience. And in light of this, I said UKI should pay her £500 in 
compensation. 
Activation of the tracker 
I thought it was reasonable that UKI activated the tracker, as this was done  with the 
intention of recovering the car. However,  I thought it should have communicated  
more clearly with Mrs J about what was going to happen. 
the response to my provisional  decision
UKI responded to my provisional decision. It said it agreed Mrs J didnt know  her vehicle had 
been modified  and had acknowledged this in its final response letter.  However it said it 
disagreed that Mrs J had insured the correct type of car, to the best of her knowledge. It said 
it had a call recording in which Mrs J had said shed called on numerous occasions in the 
past to advise her car was an O model.
Mrs J also responded to my provisional  decision. In summary she said: 
she thinks its unfair for her to have to repay the premiums as UKI made an error  in 
avoiding her policy; and
she lost a significant amount of money  when selling the car, and sold it because she 
was so distressed  about the avoidance  of the policy.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of the responses to it.
I asked UKI to send  me a recording of the call it referred to. The call took place shortly after 
Mrs J had first reported her car as stolen. After  hearing she wasnt entitled to a courtesy car, 
Mrs J said she wanted to check that UKI had a record  of her car being  an O and that it 
would be valued  as such if the car couldnt be recovered. She said: Im looking on my policy  
and theres nothing relating to (O) extras  I can prove Ive got (O) extras. And she said:  
Ive spoken and told when  Ive been  renewing  that its got all the (O) extras. 
Ref: DRN64910874UKI said it has no record of Mrs J advising  it that her car was an O in any calls prior to 
notification of the theft of the car. So it seems most likely that Mrs Js recollection of advising 
UKI the car was an O at renewal was incorrect. 
The content of the call recording UKI provided  hasnt changed my mind. Mrs Js testimony 
about the type of car she thought she owned has been consistent. And nothing Mrs J said 
during this call persuades  me that she was aware  of the discrepancy in the description of her 
car on the policy, prior to the car being  stolen. 
Ive considered what Mrs J has said about  having  to repay the premiums  UKI previously 
refunded to her. I determined in my provisional  decision  that I didnt think  UKI had shown  
that Mrs J had made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. And CIDRA sets out that 
if theres no qualifying  misrepresentation,  the insurer cant  take any action, even  if the 
information it was provided with was incorrect. 
Because of this, I said I didnt think UKI was entitled to avoid Mrs Js policies. This means 
the policies would have remained in force. And had Mrs J continued  with her claim for 
recovery and repair costs,  UKI would have been  required  to assess it in line with the terms of 
the policy. So as Mrs J had the benefit  of cover, it wouldnt be fair for her to keep the 
premium refund.
Mrs J has reiterated the distress she experienced due to the avoidance. I was aware of this 
and had taken  it into account when I issued  my provisional decision.  
Mrs J said she sold her car at a considerable loss due to the avoidance. Ive considered this 
together with what Mrs J had said previously  about  how she felt about sitting  in her car again 
due to it having been stolen. And based  on this, I think its most likely Mrs J would still have 
sold her car, even if UKI hadnt  avoided the policy.  
Ref: DRN64910875The points UKI and Mrs J raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision  and summarised  above.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint and direct UK Insurance  Limited  to pay 
Mrs J £500 in compensation for distress  and inconvenience. And, subject to Mrs J repaying  
the premiums which were refunded to her, I direct UKI do the following:
reinstate the policies  retrospectively; 
remove all references to the avoidance from its records and any external databases; 
amend any record of Mrs Js claim for the stolen car to notification  only on its 
records and on any external databases;
and provide a letter  to Mrs J confirming her policy was avoided in error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6491087