K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002  in one of the banks 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Mr T applied for the credit  card.  It 
gave him protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint  because:
 Mr T says he was told he had to have PPI. I cant  know what  was discussed in the 
meeting or how the PPI was presented  to Mr T. But Ive thought  carefully about his 
comments and looked at the available  paperwork from the sale. Mr T indicated that he 
wanted PPI on the application form, and the option  to decline it was set out with equal 
prominence. Mr T has said the bank completed the form,  he just signed  it. But I think  
its reasonable to expect he would have read the form before signing it. Overall, I think  
Lloyds made Mr T aware the PPI was optional and he chose to take it.
 Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr T, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. Mr T says he was entitled to 
statutory sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 
months. It also gave him up to 12 months  redundancy cover. So, overall, I think  PPI 
wouldve been useful to Mr T if he lost his job or was sick and unable  to work.
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Mr T chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mr T wouldve made  a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think  he would  still have  taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr T has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
Ref: DRN60346072my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6034607