K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Zurich Assurance  Ltd took the decision in November 2018 not to 
reinstate a 25-year  term assurance policy he held since 2006 because  his monthly premium 
payments had been outstanding for more than 90 days. 
He says the original  policy  terms and conditions  allow the policy to be reinstated up to 13 
months after premiums stopped. But Zurich  changed this feature of the policy following the 
introduction of the European Union Gender Directive in December 2012 without notifying  him 
at the time or since. This is not fair.
If his policy  cannot  now be reinstated, Mr K has requested Zurich to refund all the premiums  
hed paid to this policy, plus the excess cost of a brand-new policy he will need to take out, 
expiring in 2031 based on his current age.
background
In January 2006, Mr K took out a 25-year  term assurance policy providing life cover and 
disability benefit,  indexed in line with the Average Earnings index, at an original monthly  
premium of £121.84.
With regard to payment  of premiums, the policy terms  and conditions  state  that:
If you do not make  Payments when  they are due,... , cover will stop after 30 days  
(known as the Days  of Grace). The Plan will then end without value.
Given the nature of this complaint, its important to set out the timeline events, as follows.
Mr K says the premiums  to this policy were paid from his mothers bank account until April 
2018 when it fell into arrears because she changed her account  and Mr K temporarily moved 
abroad. He says that, due to the foreign exchange control  policy adopted by his host 
country, funds he periodically  transferred to his UK bank account didnt arrive  in time to meet 
the premium payments.
Accordingly, the direct debit instructions  (DDIs) to his bank for the April and May 2018 
premiums were rejected  and they remained unpaid until 31 May 2018 when Mr K paid 
£353.60 by bank giro credit. In the meantime, Zurich sent him fresh DDI and Declaration of 
Health (DOH) forms to his then current email address to reinstate  the policy and pay future 
outstanding premiums. 
On 5 June 2018, Zurich  wrote to Mr K at the UK address he gave on the DDI, acknowledging 
receipt of these forms. It agreed to change the premium collection date to the 14th of each 
month, although the premium due date would  remain the 1st of the month. It would, 
therefore, collect the next two premiums due on 1 June  and 1 July 2018,  on 14 July.
On 14 July 2018, Mr Ks bank rejected  the new DDI and Zurich  wrote to him at his UK 
address to explain that, as policy premiums were now outstanding for more than 30 days, 
cover provided by his policy had lapsed. If he wished to reinstate the policy,  he needed  to 
pay £353.60 by cheque and complete a fresh DOH. 
On 12 September  2018, Zurich wrote to Mr K again  to confirm that it hadnt heard  from him. 
It would, however, consider reinstating  his policy within 90 days of the first missed premium, 
Ref: DRN63107442subject to receipt of a DOH  and payment of the outstanding premiums. The 90-day time limit 
had already expired on 29 August 2018.
Its evident that Mr K received this correspondence  because, on 27 September  2018, he 
emailed a newly-completed DDI form (again, quoting  a UK address) to Zurich  inviting it to 
correspond with him at this new email address, and quoting his previous email  address. In 
the meantime,  he paid the two premiums for June and July 2018 by bank giro credit.
On 3 October 2018, Zurich wrote to Mr K again advising that it would  collect  the premiums 
due for August, September and October on 14 October 2018. Once payment cleared, his 
policy would be reinstated. 
Otherwise, if payment  failed, the option  to reinstate the policy  would end. This time, it 
explained that reinstatement of his policy could be considered  within 90 days after the last 
payment made and warned that, if payment wasnt made this time, Mr K would need to 
speak to your adviser to arrange replacement cover. The DDI was again rejected by Mr Ks 
bank and his policy premiums for August,  September and October  2018  remained 
outstanding. His policy therefore lapsed with no option to reinstate it.
On 31 October 2018, Mr K emailed Zurich to confirm that hed paid two premiums  on 
27 September and that only two premiums were  outstanding. In taking £530.40  for three 
premiums on 14 October, Zurich had exhausted  the funds in his account and the DDI was 
again rejected  for these  payments.
On 1 November  2018, Mr K called Zurich and was told he couldnt  reinstate his policy. He 
complained and referred to the policy condition that confirms he can reinstate the policy 
within 13 months. On 5 November 2018,  Zurich registered his current email  address,  
updated his address for correspondence  to his temporary residence abroad  and explained  
the policy terms and conditions meant  the policy will lapse and couldnt be reinstated after 90 
days since the first unpaid premium.
On 15 November 2018, Zurich reconfirmed that the policy  had lapsed  and that it considers 
reinstatement within 90 days of the first unpaid premium. But it was too late by then because  
the premium that was due on 1 August 2018  remained unpaid.
Zurich rejected Mr Ks complaint on 20 November 2018 and explained again  on 7 December 
that it had streamlined its reinstatement  process in accordance with the EU Gender 
Directive directives so reinstatement wouldnt be considered a reassessment of the life cover  
that required the policy to be rewritten on gender neutral rates.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ks complaint and didnt think  he could uphold it. 
Briefly, he concluded  that:
Zurich hadnt  done anything wrong in cancelling Mr Ks policy.  It attempted  to contact 
him throughout June to September 2018 to keep him informed  of the premium 
arrears and its requirements to reinstate the policy;
he appreciated that Mr K worked  abroad, and his family  had to forward  his post. But 
he didnt update his contact details  until November  2018,  so the investigator couldnt 
reasonably say that Zurich was wrong to send correspondence to the address on its 
records;
it was Mr Ks responsibility to keep  Zurich notified of any change  of address and bank 
details;
Ref: DRN63107443each time a new direct debit  instruction  was setup,  requests for premiums were 
returned as unpaid. Zurich has shown that it notified Mr K it would reinstate his policy  
as a goodwill  gesture in October 2018, even though  the 90-day  time limit had 
expired, if the outstanding premiums could  be collected on 14 October;
the original policy  terms and conditions state that the policy  would lapse 30 days after 
the first unpaid paid premium. The 13-month period of grace to which  Mr K referred is 
a key feature of the policy, not a policy term;
in setting a 90-day  limit, Zurich wasnt breaking  the terms of the policy - there was 
never any guarantee that it would agree to reinstate  the policy;
it was unfortunate  that Mr Ks payment arrangements with his employer meant he 
lacked funds in his UK bank  account to meet  the policy  premiums. But our service  
doesnt have the power  to require Zurich  to waive the policy  terms, especially as it 
hasnt broken those  terms.
In response, Mr K disagreed with the investigators  findings and said that:
  
if Zurich didnt register his email address until November 2018, he wondered  how it 
had sent him the DOH and DDI forms in May 2018. He returned the forms completed 
to Zurich by fax on 31 May 2018;
he had contacted Zurich by telephone on several occasions to notify it of his contact 
details and they werent noted  on his policy records;
Zurich has admitted that he was provided incorrect information  by one of its 
representatives some time before November 2018  in a telephone call on mobile 
phone with a foreign  telephone number. On the balance of probabilities, Zurich did 
not send relevant correspondence to his last known address;
Zurich has misinterpreted EUGD  Reinstatement legislation from December 2012. It is 
not relevant to his policy.
Zurich added that, while Mr K might  argue  that Zurich ought  to have communicated  its 
change of policy on reinstatement to him in 2013,  it certainly did so in correspondence with 
him in September and October  2018 when it was material  to his situation.   
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review. 
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments that are material  in deciding whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the problems Mr K experienced  in his policy premiums failing to be paid 
coincided with his move to work abroad  and the delays in money being transferred to his UK 
bank account  due to foreign exchange  controls. 
But it is important to emphasise that it was his responsibility to ensure that the premiums to 
his policy  were kept up-to-date and Zurich wasnt legally obliged  to notify him when it twice 
found it couldnt collect his premiums for April and May 2018. 
Zurich nevertheless did warn him of these premium  arrears and sent fresh  DOH and DDI 
forms to his previous  email address, which  Mr K duly returned to Zurich by fax on 31 May 
2018.
Ref: DRN63107444Mr K hasnt disputed that, since  he temporarily  moved abroad, he experienced funding  
issues with his UK bank  account that caused  his policy premiums  to fall into arrears from 
April 2018. He also accepts that, by 12 September  2018, premiums  had remained unpaid for 
more than 90 days once  the payment due on 1 June 2018 remained outstanding. But that 
isnt his complaint.  
The issue  for him is whether Zurich was entitled,  without prior warning, to alter the terms and 
conditions of the policy that reduced the time limit for reinstating his policy  from 13 months  to 
90 days from the date of the first unpaid premium.
Specifically, he maintains  that:
Zurich wasnt treating  him fairly  he complied  with the policy  terms and conditions  
that stated the policy can be reinstated within 13 months of the last payment being 
received and on provision  of satisfactory  evidence of health; 
it hasnt provided him correct information under the EU Gender Directive of 2012, as 
its grounds for non-reinstatement  arent  allowed to change his contract;
he didnt receive  the letter dated  03 October 2018. On 27 September,  his bank 
advised him by telephone that it couldnt pay the August and September  premiums - 
the October premium  was not due at that date;
he quoted  a UK address for correspondence  on the DDI form at his banks 
insistence;
his premium arrears in October 2018  were  well within  the reinstatement period of 13 
months.
13-month reinstatement request period
The terms and conditions  of the policy provide that it will lapse, and that cover will end, 30 
days since the date of the first unpaid premium. The General Provisions also state that:
the Terms and Conditions may be amended by us [Zurich] to the extent necessary to 
enable  the Plan to continue and/or to stop the illegality, and/or to reduce or eliminate the risk 
to Zurichs  insolvency.
.  the actuary will act reasonably, having regard to his professional  duties and will 
balance  the interests of Zurich and the reasonable expectations of Planholders.
Notwithstanding the above, the key features of the Lifestyle Plan from 2006 quote  the terms 
and conditions that, if Mr K stopped making payments, his cover and plan will end after 30 
days and he wouldnt get any of his payments back. They  do go on to inform  him that:
You can ask us to start the plan again  up to 13 months after your payments  stopped.  To 
help us consider your request, we will ask you to complete  a Declaration of Health form. If 
we agree  to reinstate  your plan, you will need to send us a cheque for the payments you 
have missed.
But, contrary to what Mr K has said,  this 13-month  time limit is not a term and condition  of 
the policy. Mr K wasnt entitled to have his policy reinstated after up to 13 months premiums 
remained unpaid and there was no guarantee that reinstatement would be granted. The 
terms and conditions provided for the policy (and the cover  it provided) to end 30 days  after 
the date of the first unpaid premium. Thereafter, reinstatement is granted  at Zurichs 
discretion. 
Ref: DRN6310744590-day reinstatement  period 
Accordingly, Zurich  allowed  Mr K to reinstate his policy after he paid the outstanding April 
and May contributions on 31 May 2018.
Following the introduction  of the European Union Gender Directive in December 2012, this 
policy term didnt change. Policyholders could still ask for Zurich to reinstate their policy with 
no guarantee that it would  do so. For actuarial reasons, Zurich  decided that it could reinstate 
the policy within 90 days of the date of the first unpaid premium, subject to underwriting and 
payment of the outstanding premiums,  without being expected  to reassess the risk and re-
write policies  on gender neutral terms. 
But this discretionary period of grace is not part of the terms and conditions  of the policy, 
which remained unchanged from outset.  In other  words, Zurich  has not worsened the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ks policy from December 2012.
I do understand why Mr K might argue that Zurich  ought to have communicated this 
discretionary change to its reinstatement  policy to policyholders at the time. But Zurich 
wasnt obliged to do so in these circumstances, as the policy terms and conditions 
themselves werent  changing, even though it might not be considered  fair for policyholders  
still to believe they could request their policy to be reinstated up to 13 months  since the first 
unpaid premium when  Zurich wouldnt allow reinstatement more  than 90 days since  then.
But, in any event, Zurich  wrote to Mr K on 12 September  2018 notifying him that cover it 
provided had now ended  (as premiums were outstanding for more  than 30 days). It also 
informed him that:
We will consider  reinstatement of this Policy within 90 days  from the first missed premium. 
The reinstatement  will depend  of your health  at that time and payment  of the missed 
contributions.
So, even though the 90-day grace period for reinstatement  had already expired  on 
29 August 2018,  Mr K was notified  on 12 September that his policy  could still be reinstated. 
Its evident that Mr K did receive this letter because, on 28 September, he made  two 
separate payments by bank giro credit and returned  fresh DDI and DOH forms to collect the 
third months payment [for August 2018]  from the attached account. 
Notwithstanding that Zurich might  have led Mr K to believe (with reference  to the 90-day 
rule) that only two premiums were outstanding as at 12 September,  his email of 27 
September indicates he knew three monthly premiums  were  overdue. 
Even so, although premiums had been  in arrears for 119 days, Mr K paid the premiums  due 
for June  and July 2018 by bank giro credit on the understanding  that his policy could now be 
reinstated given  the first unpaid premium  was now the one due on 1 August 2018. 
At that point, Mr K really should have paid Zurich £707.20 to clear  his premiums  arrears and 
he paid half this amount,  leaving  two premiums  still outstanding for August  and September 
2018. Zurich did agree in a letter to Mr K dated 3 October 2018 to reinstate his policy, 
providing it could  collect the three premiums due for August, September and October on 14 
October. But Zurich  made it clear this time that, once these payments cleared, Mr Ks policy  
would be reinstated.  Otherwise, it warned Mr K that:
Ref: DRN63107446If this payment fails to collect, the option to reinstate  will no longer be available  and your 
cover will end. This is because we can only usually  reinstate 90 days  after the last payment 
made. Although  we originally had your request within  this time, it is now over 90 days. If you 
still require cover, you would need  to speak to your adviser  to arrange replacement cover.
Mr K may argue that Zurich was wrong  to say that his policy couldnt be reinstated if the DDI 
failed on 14 October 2018  because the 90-day deadline for reinstatement expired on 
30 October 2018 once  hed paid the outstanding premium for July 2018. 
Mr K says he didnt receive  Zurichs letter dated  3 October 2018.  But he did email a 
response on 31 October complaining that Zurich  had tried to collect  three  premiums  on 
14 October with the DDI he submitted on 27 September, when he only expected it to collect  
two premiums. He might  have assumed on 12 September that only two premiums  were 
outstanding because he was still being  offered  the option to reinstate the policy  even though 
three premiums for June, July and August were outstanding. 
And, although he made two payments by bank giro credit on 28 September, he must have 
known from previous correspondence  that these only settled the premiums outstanding  for 
June and July 2018, and that the premium  due on 1 August remained unpaid. Zurich  did 
confirm on 3 October 2018 that it would collect three premiums for August, September and 
October 2018 on 14 October  2018 to bring premium payments  up-to-date and enable his 
policy to be reinstated.  
By October  2018,  it was reasonable for Zurich to set a deadline of 14 October  2018  for Mr K 
to settle all premiums arrears. The policy terms and conditions state that cover would end 30 
days after the first unpaid premium and Mr Ks policy first lapsed  on 31 July 2018. It lapsed  
again on 31 August  2018  and has remained so ever since. Zurich  allowed Mr K to reinstate 
his policy  if he cleared the premium arrears within 90 days  of the first unpaid  premium and 
he hasnt done  so to-date. And, in paying  some, but not all, outstanding premiums since  
September 2018, I dont think Mr K could expect  Zurich routinely to extend  the 90-day  
deadline each  time he paid a premium even though it still didnt  bring his policy up-to-date.
  
If Mr K had paid the three outstanding premiums by 30 October 2018, Zurich  might have 
allowed his policy to be reinstated.  But he didnt  respond until 31 October 2018 when the 90-
day deadline  definitely expired. 
The policy terms and conditions state that cover  provided by the policy ended 30 days after 
the first unpaid premium  on 1 August 2018.  The original key features document  (KFD)  did 
confirm that he could request his policy to be reinstated within  13 months of the first unpaid  
premium. But this was not a term and condition of the policy  Zurich could exercise its 
discretion at any time as to whether it would allow him to do so. 
As it was, Zurich confirmed to Mr K in writing  twice - in September  and October  2018  - that it 
would be prepared to reinstate his policy subject to underwriting and premiums not being in 
arrears for more than 90 days. 
And, notwithstanding what the KFD entitled  him to do, its evident that Mr K responded to the 
concession on 30 days by attempting to pay the premium arrears when they arose.  That he 
was unable to do so in time due to problems with funds failing to reach his UK bank  account  
and correspondence  by post and email being delayed cant be attributed to Zurich.
Ref: DRN63107447decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6310744