K822xcomplaint
Miss G complains  about four instalment loans she took with Stagemount Limited (trading  as 
Quidmarket). She says the loans were unaffordable. 
background
Quidmarket provided  Miss G with four payday loans between January  and March  2014. 
Before coming to the service, Quidmarket offered to uphold Miss Gs complaint about loans 
3 and 4 and it offered to refund any interest and charges shed paid.  
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and agreed  that Quidmarket hadnt done  anything  
wrong when providing  the first two loans  to Miss G. But they also thought  that Quidmarket 
shouldnt have provided loans 3 and 4 to her.  But Miss G didnt accept the offer and asked 
for an ombudsmans  review. So, the complaint  was passed to me to issue a final decision 
on. 
Miss G hasnt  responded directly and disagreed with the redress  offered for loans 3 and 4.  
So this decision is only looking at whether Miss G should have been provided with loans 1 
and 2.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I think that what Quidmarket has already agreed to 
do put things right for Miss G is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. So, 
I dont think Quidmarket has treated Miss G unfairly  or that it should  pay her any more 
compensation. Ill explain why.
Miss G was provided with high-interest loans, intended for short-term use. So Quidmarket 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Quidmarket needed  to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Miss G before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Quidmarket says it relied on what Miss G said about  having a monthly disposable income  
which was enough  to comfortably make the repayments to loans 1 and 2. And based on all 
of this it thought  it was reasonable  to provide these loans. 
Ref: DRN64565412Its important to note that when Miss G applied for her first two loans, she had no previous  
borrowing history with Quidmarket. And I cant see anything to suggest that Quidmarket had 
reason to question  the information Miss G had provided. 
Overall, I dont  think that the pattern of lending had become demonstrably unsustainable  or 
harmful  such that I could reasonably say that the facts spoke for themselves by the time of 
loan 2. In my view,  there might have  been some warning signs,  especially given the fact 
Miss G borrowed again  from Quidmarket the day after shed repaid loan 1. But I think that its 
only by the time of loan 3 that Quidmarket ought  fairly and reasonably to have realised that 
Miss G wasnt managing her money and was likely  to be struggling financially.  
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything, Im not upholding the complaint 
about loans 1 and 2. And it follows that Im satisfied that what  Quidmarket has already 
agreed to do (in terms of putting things right for loans 3 and 4) is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Miss Gs case.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think what Stagemount Limited  has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Miss G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6456541