K821x#15complaint
The complaint is about the suitability of the advice Mr K received from Anthony Feeney 
Financial Services (AFFS).  That advice  was to transfer his existing  Phoenix  Life personal 
pension policy and invest the money in a Store First unit and other funds.
background
Mr K met with an adviser in 2010. A record of his financial circumstances was completed  
and set out in the Financial Planning  Report.  It noted:
Mr K was 48, married  with no dependants and in good health.
He was self-employed earning  £20,000 a year.
He had a number of pension contracts and properties  abroad.
His retirement age was noted as 65.
That report  stated Mr K had an infrequent knowledge  of investments and that he liked the 
control that a Self-Invested Pension  Policy (SIPP)  would give him. This would allow  him to 
take a more active approach in choosing what you deem suitable investments rather than 
traditional funds you have in your existing plan.
It noted Mr Ks attitude to investment risk was adventurous meaning: you prefer  to invest in 
more specialised  stock-market  linked investments, in return for the potential  for increases 
capital. Again, investment values will fluctuate according to market  conditions, however, 
these fluctuations will be more pronounced.
The transfer value  of a with-profits policy was £24,412.  The report  set out details about 
charges and features of the proposed investment.
The adviser highlighted the comment I recommend  that your fund is not placed within one 
asset class and should form part of a diversified  portfolio across  a number of asset classes.
The application form for a SIPP was signed on 6 December 2013. It confirmed £18,750 of 
the £24,400 being transferred would be invested  in the Store  First pods.
AFFS wrote again, on 19 March 2014, advising  Mr K to transfer and re-invest £4,825.11  from 
the trustee  account  into the Vanguard  Life-Strategy 60% Equity Fund  via a trustee 
investment plan with Nucleus  held within the SIPP.
Mr Ks financial circumstances were  reviewed in 2016. He then complained  to AFFS.
AFFS did not uphold  the complaint. It said the advice  was suitable; met Mr Ks requirements 
at the time;  and that he was provided  with enough  information to make an informed choice 
about transferring  into an asset class he was familiar with.
The complaint was referred  to this service. One of our adjudicators investigated the 
complaint and thought it should be upheld. He noted  that in January 2013 the regulator 
issued an alert about firms transferring pensions to SIPPs without assessing the suitability of 
the underlying  investment to be held in the SIPP.
Ref: DRN60162992That alert specifically stated unregulated investments are diamonds,  overseas property  
developments, store pods, forestry and film schemes, among other non-mainstream  
propositions.
The Store First investment was a store pod investment was an unregulated investment. 
The adjudicator thought that it was an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). 
The promotion of a UCIS is restricted under sections 21 and 238 of the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000  relating to UCIS.  
So the advice  could only have been made to consumers  who were Qualified Investors 
within the meaning of Section  86(7)  of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000. The 
term Qualified Investors was defined in Directive 2003/71/EC of the European Parliament 
and of the Council  of 4 November 2003,  which for sake  of clarity meant the terms under 
definition 1.
Irrespective of its classification,  the adjudicator concluded these funds were  unlikely  to be 
suitable for Mr K. The adjudicator noted there was no evidence  that at the time of the advice 
any of the exemptions  would have applied to Mr K. It was not evident the consumer was a 
sophisticated or experienced investor  given the bulk of funds that were  placed in his SIPP  
came from the transfer of another pension policy for a modest amount.
The adjudicator referred  to COBS 9. This required an adviser to consider the suitability of the 
proposed investment. The risks of the investments would not have been related to the SIPP  
itself, given that the whole point of having  the SIPP would have been so it could also hold 
these investments. He did not see it was possible to assess if the consumer was able to bear 
the related investment risk without considering the risks of the proposed  investment. If the 
risks of the investment  were too high, the SIPP itself was unsuitable. In his opinion  the 
adviser would  be required to advise  on the suitability of the underlying investment.
It was accepted that generic information about  risk was set out. But that didnt make it 
suitable for Mr K. The adviser specifically noted  the consumer had an infrequent  knowledge 
and had properties abroad but this information  was not quantified  to justify  a risk rating of 
adventurous. Mr Ks income would not place him as a high net worth investor, nor do any of 
the noted investments make him experienced. He held a generic personal  pension and a 
property abroad  but what  type of property  wasnt specified.
If the property was a buy-to-let owned by Mr K it would not be comparable  to the Store  First 
investment held within a SIPP. So having  property abroad would not meet the criteria to 
make the investment suitable.
AFFSs representative replied. In summary  they said:
Mr K was referred to AFFS as a client seeking to take pension benefits  and invest in 
UK commercial property. He was advised  to set up a SIPP and access 25% tax free 
cash, which was in line with information provided  by Mr K in his fact find.
Mr K expressly did not seek advice  about  the suitability of the investment and stated 
he understood the risk.
AFFS is aware of the FCA alert (18 January 2013) and as a result  conducted  suitable  
due diligence  on the proposed investment.
AFFS relied on a September 2013  surveyor report. It was assured the investment 
was not a specified one under  the RAO, nor a designated  investment  and it has 
never been classified as a UCIS.
Ref: DRN60162993AFFS evaluated Mr Ks risk profile as adventurous  as he had invested £20,000 in 
overseas property and saw Store First as a good  investment.
AFFS invited Mr K to query or question the firm about the information or content of its 
reports to him but he did not do so.
Any detriment caused to Mr K was as a result  of his own fully informed and free 
choice to enter into an arrangements after our client had expressly advised him about 
the risks 
If requested AFFS and its representative were willing to participate  in an oral hearing.
They disputed that the investment fell within the scope of the regulated activity rules 
and that the investment did not meet the provisions for COBS9 to be applicable.
As the adviser  expressly  stated  the proposed investment fell outside Mr Ks needs, 
no personal recommendation  was ever made to Mr K.
The adjudicator responded confirming he had read the response. But felt the issues raised 
were not new material  evidence had been  submitted  that would change  his conclusions.  
Further responses were received from AFFSs representative. This included  a note from 
Nicholas Peacock QC arguing that Storage Pods  are not collective investment schemes. 
That note reassured  AFFS  that they were not a specified investment under the RAO or a 
designated investment but rather a commercial  property investment.
I issued my provisional decision. My findings  were:
our jurisdiction
AFFS was giving advice  to start a SIPP. That is a regulated activity. We can therefore 
consider a complaint about the advice to start the SIPP. It does not matter whether the store 
pods are a UCIS or not. This is a complaint  that we can consider.
the relevant rules
The rules  that firms  had to follow are set out in the regulators  handbook. The advice had to 
take account of the relevant rules whether or not store pods were regulated. The regulations 
required the advice  to be suitable. To do that AFFS had to obtain  enough information about 
Mr Ks circumstances.
what should the adviser have done?
The adviser was required to give suitable advice.  To do that the adviser had to have enough 
information to know his client. 
The risks of this transfer were almost entirely about  the intended investment. I cannot see 
how suitable advice  can be given without thinking about that investment. Thats  the key 
message from the regulators alert issued in January 2013. 
AFFS knew that Mr K intended to invest in store pods. They should have considered 
whether that was suitable for him.
The adviser did set out some  risks of investing  in store pods  in his suitability report. These 
were:
Ref: DRN60162994Investment in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large  part of a 
scheme's assets brings  considerable  risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
The adviser went on to say: I recommend  that your fund  is not placed within one asset 
class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a number of asset 
classes. However, in my view this does not go far enough. 
Im satisfied that the investment  store  pods  were a high risk investment. They were not 
regulated whether or not they were  a UCIS. The investments were potentially  illiquid  and 
unsuitable for Mr K. I think if Mr K had been advised  not to invest  in store pods that he would 
have followed that advice.
An adjudicator called  Mr K to ask about how he found out about store pods. His memory was 
far from clear. It appears that he was called  by a third party; and also mentioned someone at 
the pub had done it. I dont think Mr K had any strong feelings about  the investment. I am 
satisfied that he thought  it would improve the pension he would receive.  I think if Mr K had 
been advised not to transfer to the SIPP that he would have followed that advice. A 
recording of that call will be made  available.
I think suitable advice  should have been not to invest  in store pods. If that advice had been 
given I do not see any reason  why Mr K would have  transferred to a SIPP. I think that given 
a realistic assessment  of his attitude to risk as balanced, or medium, that a standard 
personal pension  would  have been  suitable for his needs. I think the extra charges normally 
associated with a SIPP were not justified.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision. AFFSs representative  acknowledged receipt of my 
provisional decision and asked for more time to respond.  I have  not received any substantive  
response to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that the advice given to Mr K was unsuitable  for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision and set out above.  The investment in store  pods was high risk and 
Ref: DRN60162995unsuitable for Mr K. Im satisfied that he would not have invested in store  pods of transferred 
to the SIPP  if he had been  given  suitable  advice by AFFS.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr K into to the position he would  probably now be in if he had been given 
suitable advice.  I think Mr K would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done, but Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr K's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  AFFS do?
To compensate Mr K fairly,  AFFS  must:
Compare the performance of Mr K's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Mr K's pension  plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount 
paid should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
I think its unlikely AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr K's pension 
plan. So, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income  when he takes the benefits. 
Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced  to notionally allow  for any income tax 
that would otherwise  have been  paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr K's expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. I think Mr K is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement.  The 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr K would have  
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
It is very likely that Mr K will have to maintain the SIPP  for a period of as the store 
pods cannot be sold, which  will prevent the SIPP from being closed. If AFFS is 
unable to buy the store pods from the SIPP provider,  they should  pay Mr K five years  
worth of SIPP fees to compensate him for these  costs.  
Pay Mr K £250 for the distress caused by the loss to his pension  funds.
Ref: DRN60162996AFFS must  add interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr K how much has been taken off. 
AFFS should give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple a 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
payment 
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. AFFS 
should take ownership of the store pods by paying  a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance  
paid as I set out above.
If AFFS is unable to buy the investment the actual  value  should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. AFFS may require that Mr K provides an undertaking to pay AFFS 
any amount he may receive from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must  allow  
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
AFFS will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr K wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr K's circumstances and risk attitude.  
Ref: DRN60162997my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Anthony  Feeney Financial Services  should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6016299