K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company  Limited  (LV) has declined 
a claim hes made under  his car insurance  policy. Mr M has been represented in his 
complaint by a family member. For ease,  Ill refer to most things as though Mr M has said 
them himself.
background
Mr Ms property  was burgled sometime over the Christmas/New Year  period of 2018. Along 
with other  items, the spare key to Mr Ms car was stolen. Mr M reported this to his insurance 
broker about three weeks later. Its response was to suggest that Mr M contact the brokers  
claims team to discuss the possibility of a claim. Mr M didnt do this.
About two weeks later, Mr Ms car was stolen from outside his property. It was found  shortly 
after but had been damaged. Mr M claimed on his insurance policy for replacement number 
plates, damage to the car and replacement  locks. LV declined the claim for the damage to 
the car saying that the key stolen during the burglary was used to steal  the car. As a result,  
LV said Mr M failed to safeguard his car from loss or damage, which  is a condition of his 
policy. It also said that replacement number plates arent covered by Mr Ms policy and a 
separate claim could  be made for replacement keys and locks.  Mr M complained but this 
wasnt upheld by LV.
Mr M remained dissatisfied and complained  to us. Our investigator looked  into what had 
happened and concluded that LV hadnt  proved the spare key had been  used  to steal the 
car. In view of this, he didnt feel the fact Mr M may have breached the abovementioned 
policy condition had made any difference. And this meant he didnt think it was appropriate  
for LV to rely on the breach to reject Mr Ms claim.  He proposed that LV pay the claim for the 
damage to Mr Ms car, as well for replacement locks  and keys, less any policy  excesses.
Mr M accepted the investigators view, but LV didnt agree and asked  for the case  to be sent 
to an ombudsman. LV says because the car doesnt have keyless technology, the thief 
would have to enter  the car and hot wire it in order to steal  it. Had this happened,  LV say it 
would expect to see damage to (or tampering  with) the cars  ignition barrel, steering column, 
dashboard and locks.  LV has provided  photographs of the car which it says show the car 
isnt damaged in this way. It concluded that the spare key was used to steal the car. 
The complaint was passed  for me to consider. I reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator but was considering a different redress. So, I issued a provisional decision on 
28 January 2020  to allow both parties  to consider  my provisional findings and have the 
opportunity to comment.
In that decision  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
As theres  no disagreement that Mr Ms car was stolen, I can focus on LVs reasons for 
declining Mr Ms claim. And I need to consider whether LVs decision to decline the claim is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN63291242I think it could be argued that by not having the locks changed on his car or parking it away 
from his accommodation  after his key was stolen,  Mr M failed to take reasonable care to 
safeguard his car. I appreciate  hed contacted  his broker, who didnt suggest either of these 
things, but that doesnt mean  Mr M couldnt have realised the need to do something himself. 
But I dont think this is enough for LVs decision to decline his claim to be reasonable. 
LV has to treat Mr M fairly. And, as a result of this and the regulations  its meant to follow 
when settling claims, it needs to show that Mr Ms breach  of the condition  to safeguard his 
car was connected to the loss Mr M is claiming for. In other words,  it needs to show the 
spare key stolen from his property was used to steal his car. 
I am surprised by LVs comments  about  hot wiring,  as this method of stealing cars effectively 
ended with the introduction of immobilisers. And there are several  methods a thief could use 
on a standard  car with entry via a remote fob without having  a key that wouldnt result in any 
obvious damage inside the car. I accept  a thief would still need to get into the car first to be 
able to use these  methods  and this could cause some damage externally. But once the thief 
had got into the car, there are a number of devices that can be used to overcome  the 
immobiliser and start the car without  the need to interfere with the steering column,  
dashboard or ignition barrel.  
Ive seen the photographs  of the car sent by LV. One photograph in particular suggests that 
some force may have been used on one of the doors. Its possible this may have happened 
when the car was stolen. So it could also have been how the thief got into the car. 
Having seen this photograph, which could show forced entry, I think  it would have been 
reasonable for LV to have arranged for an engineer to inspect the car and for the Engine 
Control Unit (ECU) on the car to be interrogated. Mr M asked for the car to be inspected, but 
LV didnt do this because  it felt that the photographs didnt show the damage it would expect 
had the car been hotwired. But this ignored  the various ways modern cars can be stolen 
without a key and the fact that it may have been  possible to read the ECU on the car. And 
this may well have shown whether the last key used to start it was the spare  one stolen from 
Mr Ms accommodation. LV didnt  do this, so I dont think it has done enough to show  the 
spare key was used  to steal Mr Ms car. This means  I dont think  its shown his failure to 
safeguard his car is connected to the loss hes claiming for. 
Had LV checked  the ECU on Mr Ms car it may well have  been able to show  the spare key 
was used to steal  the car. But it chose not to do so. And this means  I dont think it would  
produce a fair and reasonable  outcome to this case if I allowed LV to rely on Mr Ms breach 
of the policy  condition requiring him to safeguard his car to decline his claim. So I think  the 
fair and reasonable outcome is for LV to settle the claim in accordance with the remaining 
policy terms.
Mr M has asked  to be refunded for a number  of costs hes incurred in repairing the car. For 
clarity, I set out below what  LV should  and shouldnt pay. 
Replacement number plates are not specifically excluded by the policy  and, as they are 
part of the car, I consider their replacement is covered. Mr M has asked for £25.95  to 
cover the cost of replacement number plates which LV should pay.
Mr M has asked  that the cost of a new V5 (£25) be paid. Its not clear why a new V5 is 
needed, but this isnt covered by the policy and need not be paid by LV.
Mr M has already arranged for the locks  and keys to be replaced. Mr M has asked that 
he be refunded £494  which he says is the cost of replacing these items. Ive looked  at 
Ref: DRN63291243the invoice which Mr M has provided.  I think this is a reasonable amount which  LV 
should pay less the policy excess of £100  as set out in Section K of the policy  schedule.  
Mr M has asked  that recovery fees of £170  be paid. LV has confirmed that, were it to 
settle a claim in full, it would normally  pay recovery fees.  In this case I think  its 
reasonable that LV pay these  recovery fees.
Mr M has already had the damage to the car repaired at a cost of £700 (+ VAT)  £840  
in total. Ive looked at the invoice provided by Mr M and I think  this is a reasonable 
amount for the repair, which LV should pay (less any policy excess).
Ive also considered how LV should compensate Mr M for the loss of use of the car. Mr M 
was without his car for 40 days,  from when it was stolen to when it was repaired. Had LV 
agreed Mr Ms claim  as I think it should have done   Mr Ms car would most likely  have  
been repaired by an LV approved repairer. Mr Ms insurance policy  allows for repairs to 
begin immediately  after theyve been authorised by LV. Once the theft had been  reported, I 
think two weeks is a reasonable period to allow for LV to assess  the damage to the car and 
arrange for the car to go in for repair. This gives a period  of 26 days  when Mr M was without  
a car when he should have had one. Under  Mr Ms policy, he would be offered  a courtesy 
car for the period that his own car is being  repaired.  But because his claim was declined,  he 
didnt have the use of a courtesy car.
The approach our service  takes is that a customer who isnt able to use a car due to an error 
by the insurer  should be paid an amount for each day for loss of use. The amount depends 
on the consumers  alternatives.  And it looks like Mr Ms only alternatives were walking, 
cycling or public  transport. So, in the circumstances of this case, I think  £10 per day is 
appropriate. I think its reasonable  that LV pay £260  to Mr M for loss of use of his car. 
Ive also considered the impact of the case on Mr M. Mr M is a student and says that he has 
been left in considerable debt by having  to pay for the repairs, replacement locks  and 
recovery fees when  he didnt have to. This comes to nearly  £1500, which is a considerable 
amount of money  for a student and I can understand the disappointment and anxiety caused 
by LV declining  his claim. Ive noted  also that he says hes become increasingly  stressed  
and worried about  his finances  whilst at university.  Taking everything into account, I think 
£200 compensation is reasonable in the circumstances of this case for the distress  and 
inconvenience of this.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
refund  the costs  Mr M has incurred as Ive set out above;
pay £260 to Mr M for the loss of use of his car; and
pay £200 to Mr M for distress and inconvenience  he has suffered.
Both parties  responded accepting  my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN63291244my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Im satisfied with the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.
As both parties agreed to my provisional  findings,  I see no reason to alter the outcome I 
gave in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  I uphold this complaint. I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited to:
refund  the following  costs Mr M has incurred
o£25.95 to cover the cost of replacement  number plates
o£394 for replacement  locks and keys (this is £494 for replacing the locks and 
keys less £100 policy excess)
o£170 to cover the cost of recovery fees
o£490 for the repair costs for the damage to the car (this is £700 plus VAT  a total 
of £840 - less £350 for the compulsory and voluntary excesses)
pay £260 to Mr M for the loss of use of his car; and
pay £200 to Mr M for distress and inconvenience  he has suffered.
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited should pay the compensation with 28 days  of 
us telling it Mr M has accepted my final decision.  If it pays  later than this, it should  add 
simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision to the date it makes  
payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6329124