K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his mother in law Mrs M about excess  miles FCE Bank Plc 
trading as Ford Credit  charged.  Mrs M would like the excess  charges reduced  to £100.
background
Mr A says Mrs M took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Ford Credit in 2015. Mr A says 
the car was for himself.  As he was unable to get credit Mrs M took out the agreement.
Mr A says he agreed the details of the agreement by computer and over the phone. And that 
he agreed to a 12,000 yearly mileage allowance.
He says when  he handed the car back in 2018 he expected there to be a small bill of around 
£100 for exceeding the mileage allowance. However Mrs M got a letter  from Ford Credit  
saying the outstanding amount was £1,894  as the mileage on the contract was 6,000 not 
12,000 miles.
Ford Credit said that the agreement clearly stated 6,000 not 12,000 miles and so its charges 
were correct.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  She was unable to get a copy  of a phone call 
Mr A had with the business in which Mr A said he agreed to 12, 0000 miles on the contract. 
She found the contract clearly  stated a mileage allowance  of 6,000 so didnt think  Ford 
Credit was wrong to charge for this.
Ford Credit accepted  this view but Mrs M didnt. Mr a pointed out the anomaly between the 
contract stating excess miles would be charged  at 8p per mile. And the final response letter 
from Ford Credit stating the rate was 6p per mile.
Our investigator considered this point but it didnt change her view. She clarified  with Ford 
Credit that the correct  charge was 8p per mile. The figure stated in the final response  letter  
had been an administrative  error.  She calculated the amount owing her and confirmed that 
£1,894.66 was the correct  amount.
Mrs M did not accept this further  view. Mr A said that he only agreed to a contract with 
12,000 miles. He said at the time he asked for email confirmation of the deal with this was 
refused. 
He said the agreement was mailed to his Mrs M  he never saw the agreement and just 
believed it to be as he had agreed  over the phone and by computer. He said when he 
collected the car the mileage wasnt discussed  which he felt was a deliberate  act to hide the 
change in mileage  from him. Finally  he said the administrative error by Ford Credit in stating 
a charge of 6p per mile in its final response  letter  would not cost Ford Credit anything as it 
had been able to still go ahead and charge  the correct amount of 8p per mile. Yet Mr As 
mistake of trusting a car salesman cost hi £1,894.66 which  he didnt feel was fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN68857372I appreciate it must have  come as quite  a shock to Mrs M , and to her representative Mr A to 
get an unexpected bill for over £1,800 at the end of Mrs Ms Hire Purchase  Agreement. So I 
appreciate they are going to both be disappointed that I have reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator.
Mr A is adamant he agreed to a contract  with 12,000 miles not 6,000 miles.  He says he 
made the agreement  over the phone and by computer. He asked us to listen  to a call he 
made in 2015  where he says he agreed  the mileage. We asked for this but unfortunately its 
no longer available. And as Mr M hasnt given us any evidence  from his computer records I 
assume there is nothing  there that would help with this complaint.
Its very difficult  when a consumer relies  on a verbal agreement to prove  at a later date what  
was agreed. And I do appreciate that. Mr A has told us he asked for an email to confirm  what  
he agreed but the salesperson refused to give him this. 
But I am surprised if Mr A didnt get the email  he asked  for confirming what  he had agreed 
that Mr A then didnt  check the contract when Mrs M got it to ensure it reflected what he 
agreed.
Mr A has told us he never saw the paperwork as that went  direct  to Mrs M  which  it would 
have done since  the finance  agreement was hers not his  but  Mr A could have asked  to 
see it and checked  it reflected  what he had agreed.  Had he done so he could have queried 
the mileage in the contract and/or asked Mrs M to exercise her 14 day right to withdraw from 
the agreement.
Mr A has told us the mileage allowance  wasnt  discussed when they collected the car. But 
Mr A could have raised this himself and checked it was as he thought he agreed.  Again 
given he didnt get the written confirmation  he asked for I am surprised he didnt  think to do 
this when he collected the car.
I have looked  at the Hire Purchase Agreement Mrs M signed.  It clearly states on the first 
page the annual mileage  allowance  of 6,000  miles and there would be a charge for miles in 
excess of that amount.
I think its unfortunate that Mr A set up the agreement but Mrs M took out the finance  
agreement. I can appreciate  Mrs M may not have read the contract and just assumed it 
would reflect what Mr A agreed. But it seems  neither party checked the finance agreement 
so missed the opportunity to query the mileage  allowance.
I have to consider  if Ford Credit has done anything  wrong and I dont think it has. It has 
correctly charged the excess miles due according to the contract. So with no evidence  to 
support that the agreement should have been  for 12, 0000  not 6,000  miles I cant reasonably 
ask Ford Credit to reduce the charges  down  from £1,894 to the £100 Mrs M expected  to be 
charged for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Ref: DRN68857373Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6885737