K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained that they were  mis-sold a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Bradford & Bingley plc (B&B).
background
Mr and Mrs K took out the PPI when they applied for a mortgage  with B&B in March 1991.  
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr K only at a monthly 
cost of £10.00.  The monthly  benefit was £200.00. If Mr K had made  a successful claim, the 
policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed, and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
B&B sent in copies of the mortgage application  form from 1991. As the sale took place in a 
meeting, I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI. But I can see from the mortgage 
application that theres a section headed  payment protection insurance, which shows  
answers to eligibility  questions, the level of cover chosen (Mr K could have had a policy that 
covered accident  and sickness only)  and the amount of benefit. The section didnt need to 
be completed if PPI wasnt required  I cant see anywhere where it suggests the PPI had to 
be taken. From the details  on the form I think its likely there  was some discussion about the 
PPI and Mr Ks personal circumstances, so as to be able to complete that section of the 
application. So overall I think Mr and Mrs K were  aware of the PPI and chose to take it in    
Mr Ks name only. Although I can understand why they may not remember this as it was so 
long ago. 
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs K so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for 
Mr K. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs K got the information they needed  to decide if 
it was right for him. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ks circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr and Mrs Ks repayments for up to 24 months  per claim if 
Mr K became too ill to work, or if he became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition to 
any sick pay or savings he had and for longer than his sick pay lasted. And it wouldve paid 
Ref: DRN61111322out on top of any redundancy payment he may have got if he lost his job. And as there 
couldve been serious consequences  of not keeping up repayments  on a debt secured 
against their home, if Mr K couldnt  work or lost his job then the PPI meant their monthly 
mortgage payments  wouldve been  met. And any other means  he had could be used for 
other expenses. So I think  the PPI policy couldve been helpful  to them.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs K have  said but these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6111132