K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company  Limited unfairly  added  interest  charges 
to his catalogue account. He wants the charges refunded and his credit  file corrected.
background
Mr S tells us he had a catalogue account  with a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) option.  In order 
to avoid interest being added he says he logged into his online account  and paid the balance  
which was showing on the screen. He says he was unaware there  was still a BNPL balance 
remaining. And that this would  result in an interest  payment being applied. He says when he 
made a later payment this had also been  put against  a later BNPL item and not against an 
earlier purchase on his running account. As a result he says hes now been charged further 
interest which he doesnt think is fair.
SDFCL told us that Mr S had ordered several  items  using the Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL)  
facility it offered. It explained that if a customer paid the full price of an item before a fixed 
date then no interest would be applied. It said that as Mr S hadnt paid the full cost price of 
the relevant item (£249.99) by the scheduled  date of 9 March 2018  interest  had been 
applied. Subsequently  it said hed made  a payment  on a different BNPL item but had later 
asked for this to be unpicked. When he didnt pay off that item in full it said the interest 
charge had been applied  in accordance with the terms and conditions.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said the account 
statements had explained when the BNPL periods ended and that interest would be charged 
after this date. And she observed that Mr S had previously  used the BNPL  option and repaid 
debts on time. She felt this showed  he was aware of how the option  worked  and the effect of 
not making full payment.
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S would be disappointed  to find that interest had been  charged when 
he thought hed taken sufficient action  to avoid this. And Im not without  empathy  for him 
regarding the situation which has now arisen.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Mr S explains that he was aware that he needed to pay off a BNPL  balance  by 9 March  
2018. He says he made a payment of £170  from his personal bank account and asked his 
partner to pay the balance. She later logged into his catalogue account and paid what  she 
thought was the remaining balance  of £20.04. When the £20.04 was paid it still left the 
shortfall from the original  BNPL balance  (£249.99).  And this is what led to the interest charge 
of £270.44 being applied.  Mr S believes this is an error on the app and says the £20.04 
balance showing referred to a minimum payment option which doesnt apply to BNPL. 
Ref: DRN67447232Ive seen account statements dated 20 January (statement 20) and 17 February 2018 
(statement 21). Both statements contain  the following message:
Important Information For Buy Now Pay Later  Item(s) Charged On This Statement.  Buy 
Now Pay Later Item(s) Including Interest Have Been Charged To Your Account. You Can 
Still Avoid The Interest  Of £270.44 By Paying The Outstanding Cash  Price  Of £249.99  By 09 
Mar 2018.
Alternatively, You Can Spread The Cost Of These  Item(s) As They Will Be Included In Your  
Minimum Payment  Request On Your Next Statement. (my underlining).
Statement 21 also indicates the minimum payment required by 9 March is £20.04.
Its up to the account  holder to be aware  of what sums are owed and by what  date payments  
are required  to avoid  interest. Given the two earlier account statements I find Mr S knew, or 
ought reasonably  to have known, the BNPL  balance which  needed to be cleared on 9 March 
2018 was £249.99. As hed just paid £170 it mightve been expected that he would have 
specified that a further £79.99 was needed to be repaid. I infer he didnt advise  his partner of 
the exact sum that was required to clear the balance otherwise I cant  see why shed have 
paid the lesser amount.
On a balance  of probabilities, I think whats most  likely  happened  is that upon logging into 
the account his partner  saw the reference  to £20.04 (being the minimum payment). And 
presumed this is what she needed  to pay. Im not persuaded there was any error on the 
account app or that the information was incorrect. I think  the earlier account statements 
made clear that Mr S had a choice.  Namely pay the full BNPL  balance  and avoid interest. 
Alternatively, he could  spread the cost and make the minimum payment which  in this case  
was £20.04.
Ive no doubt that Mr S intended to pay off the full balance and that he had the funds to do 
so. It would make no sense to incur  interest  charges of £270.44 if they could be avoided by 
paying £59.95 extra. But we are all prone to make  occasional errors. And in my opinion,  its 
more probable than not that any misunderstanding arose because Mr S wasnt sufficiently  
clear about  the sum which he asked his partner  to pay in order to clear the full BNPL  
balance.
In April 2018, Mr S made a BNPL payment of £119.99 in respect  of another  item (a watch);  
But when he discovered that interest  was being  applied to his running  account  as a result 
of the failure to make the full 9 March BNPL payment - he tried to have matters (as he saw 
it) put right. 
He contacted SDFCL to query the charges  which had been applied to his running account.  
Ive listened to a recording  of a phone conversation which took place on 11 May 2018. 
During the course of this call he explains that he would have preferred the earlier BNPL 
payment (watch) to have  been credited to his running account and avoided  charges on that 
account.
He mentioned that in order to avoid interest  on the BNPL item he had until November 2018  
to pay if off and that he could do so before then. And he requested the earlier  payment be 
transferred to his running account.  The call handler said she would refer the matter  to 
another department to see if this could  be done. I can see this adjustment was made later.  
But when Mr S didnt  pay off the BNPL  balance in November 2018 the interest of £129.81 
was reapplied.
Ref: DRN67447233Ive previously sent Mr S a copy of the calculations and SDFCLs explanation of how his 
current balance of £484.20 was reached. I cant see any errors  were made by SDFCL.
In summary:
£249.99 was due to be paid in full by 9 March  to clear one BNPL account. Only £190.04 was 
paid which  left a £59.95  debit balance. This triggered an interest payment of £270.44. These 
sums were transferred to the running account leaving the sum outstanding of £330.39.  
There was a separate BNPL balance of £119.99 due to be paid by November 2018.
A late payment fee of £12 was applied in April so the running account  balance became 
£342.39. Mr S paid £119.99 which  was initially credited to his BNPL  account and cleared 
this. But upon  his request to unpick the payment it was transferred to his running account 
and left that at £222.40. It also meant  that nothing had been  paid on the BNPL  item.
As no further  payments were received the cost price £119.99 and interest of £129.81 on the 
BNPL item was re-applied in November 2018 leading to a balance  of £472.20. And later a 
£12 late payment charge was added leaving the balance  at £484.20. Other  charges were  
waived as a gesture of goodwill.
In summary,  Im not satisfied that there  have been  any errors on the part of SDFCL  either 
relating to the online app or the calculation of Mr S account. In line with the terms and 
conditions it was entitled to apply the interest  when the BNPL balances werent repaid.
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6744723