K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Allianz Insurance Plc, as the insurer, should  accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to Allianz as the seller in my 
decision.
Mr P says Allianz mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a charge card that Mr P took out in 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why. 
Allianz had to make Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his card. I cant be certain  what was said when Allianz  sold the PPI to Mr P so 
Ive based my decision on the information available from the time.
Allianz has provided a copy  of the application form Mr P completed when he applied for his 
card and PPI. The form had a separate section  for PPI where the option to take the policy  
has been selected. The form has also been signed in agreement with the information on it. 
So with the information available I think its likely Allianz made  it clear  the PPI was optional  
and Mr P chose to have  it.
From what  Ive seen I dont think Allianz  recommend  the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr P got the information he needed  
to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out knowing the other means he had of making his 
repayments, which included generous  sick pay. The PPI would have paid out in addition  to 
Mr Ps sick pay, and for longer than he would have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. And it looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, including that he was in secure  employment  
when he took the policy. But the PPI covered unforeseen circumstances and I think Mr P 
could have benefitted from having the policy, so this point doesnt change my decision.
Ref: DRN62356672my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6235667