K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2005. Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
This complaint is about two credit  card PPI policies taken out in 1996. The policies cost 70p 
per £100  of the outstanding card balance and covered Mrs C in the event she wasnt 
working due to accident, sickness or unemployment.  Following a successful claim, they 
would repay  10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months. 
The policies would also pay the outstanding  balance  in the event of Mrs Cs death.
Barclays says one of Mrs Cs credit  card accounts,  the MasterCard was closed before 2000  
and the PPI covering that account finished  at that time also. The other,  a Visa card account  
and the PPI policy closed in 2010.
Mrs C has told us that at the time of taking out PPI she was working, was entitled  to sick pay 
from her employer, and had savings.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. She said she thought Mrs C had lost out because  she 
was not given enough information about  the PPI. She said Mrs C had a medical condition  
that was excluded by the policy, and so would not have found the PPI useful if she had been 
fully informed and so wouldnt have bought it. The adjudicator felt that Barclays should pay 
back all Mrs Cs premiums with appropriate interest.
Barclays disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ill first consider the medical condition that Mrs C says she had at the time of the sale as that 
was the basis  of our adjudicator upholding the complaint, and Ill then go on to consider all 
the other aspects of the sale.
 
The PPI that Mrs C bought excluded any medical  condition she knew  about or had been  
treated for in the 12 months before she bought  it. Mrs C initially said that she didnt have  any 
medical conditions  at the time of the sale. She later said she had been diagnosed with back  
pain in 1968. I can understand that over 23 years later its difficult  for her to recall. However 
she also told us that she had not had time off work  due to the back  pain and it had not 
affected her day to day life in the years before she bought the PPI. So I dont  think  the level 
of back pain she had at that time was in the front of her mind. And therefore I think  its more 
likely than not that Mrs C wouldnt have been  put off buying the PPI, even if she had been 
aware of the medical condition exclusion.
Ref: DRN61973612And I will take this forward into my consideration of the sale overall below.
Ive provisionally  decided that in this case the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
do so. I say this because Barclays has provided  a copy  of Mrs Cs credit card postal 
application form which shows  a tick by the PPI on the form indicating she has chosen  to 
take it out, and she has signed  the application form. There was another box on the form 
to say no, she didnt want  the PPI, and that is unticked. 
Barclays and Mrs C agree this was a non advised sale, by which I mean  that Barclays  
didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C or advise her to take it out. So Barclays  was only 
required to provide Mrs C with enough  information  about the policy  so she could make 
an informed decision about  whether  or not to buy it herself.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. I say 
this because she only had 2 months full pay and 2 months half pay entitlement from her 
employer if she got sick. And although  she had some savings to fall back on, her total 
resources were  less than the equivalent of 6 months pay. The PPI would have paid out 
in addition to her sick pay and for up to 12 months. It also paid out if she lost her job and 
she wasnt affected by any of the policy  exclusions based on my conclusions  above. At a 
cost of 69p per £100 of the balance,  it also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
This means  my provisional conclusion is that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C. 
what else have I considered?
The Supreme Court decided a case  that involved the commission  on a PPI policy   Plevin v 
Paragon Personal  Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre  looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes  need 
to give consumers back some of the commission  paid on certain  PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements  
taken out before then which were still running  on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, your MasterCard credit agreement doesnt fit into these dates  and so I dont think 
Barclays has to refund any of the commission you paid on your PPI policy related to this.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C related to her Visa card 
because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and my provisional conclusion is that I think  that is 
fair in this case.
Ref: DRN61973613Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - but these  points  dont change  my view.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mrs C nor Barclays sent any further substantive comments to me by the date I set.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs C and Barclays provided no further  evidence or arguments  my conclusions  remain 
as outlined in my provisional findings  above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is that Mrs C hasnt suffered loss as a result 
of taking out PPI to the extent that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs C.
But my decision is also that Barclays Bank  UK PLC does have to pay back  to Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I do not award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6197361