K821x#15complaint
Mr B instructed Allay  Claims Ltd to make  a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI). The claim was successful  but Mr B is unhappy with the fee hes been  charged.  
background
Mr B instructed Allay  to make a claim  for mis-sold PPI in June 2018. Allay  had a two stage 
process  a free PPI check followed by a claim  and worked on a no win no fee basis. Their 
fee for any successful claim  was 36%.  Mr Bs claim was successful  in October  2018,  and 
Allay invoiced  for their fee. Mr B paid the fee in January 2019  after Allay had threatened him 
with legal action.
Mr B has complained that Allay didnt contact him after the free PPI check, so they didnt 
give him the opportunity to make  the claim himself. Hes also complained that Allay didnt 
give him advice on the offer he had from the PPI provider; and that their terms and 
conditions werent  clear. Because of this, he doesnt  think that Allays fee is justified.
This complaint was originally accepted for investigation by the Legal  Ombudsman, but was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies. The investigation  
was completed by a Claims  Management Ombudsman investigator.  
Our investigator found Allay had dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably. He thought their 
terms and conditions were clear and they followed their process. Because  of this he thought 
their fee was due. But, the Claims Management  Regulator (CMR) had introduced a fee cap 
for PPI claims in 2018,  and the investigator said Allay hadnt complied with this. So he said 
Allay should  apply the fee cap to Mr Bs claim,  and refund him the difference between  what 
they shouldve  charged,  and what they did charge him.
Mr B agreed with the investigator,  but said he was concerned that Allay may be doing the 
same to other customers. Because of this, he would  like Allay to be referred to the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).  He has also said that the Legal Ombudsman  passed his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service but he hasnt received anything from the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  He would like confirmation that all of his issues  are being 
dealt with by the Claims Management Ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen that Mr B signed a Letter of Authority with Allay on 20 June 2018, and Allays 
Terms of Engagement were printed on the back of this. Ive looked at these terms, and I 
cant see that anythings  misleading  Allay  made  their fees quite clear and provided 
examples of how these  would  be calculated.  They also explained that they could add fees 
and interest to any unpaid invoice, and had the right to take recovery  action if necessary.
Ref: DRN62919842Ive also seen that Allay  told Mr B on 26 June 2018  that theyd sent off his free PPI check  
and would tell him when  they had an answer. Allays case  notes show  that in early  July they 
spoke to Mr B about his claim, chased him for a PPI questionnaire (which  they would need  
to be able to make a claim), and to let him know his claim  had been  submitted. This shows 
me that Allay told Mr B that he had PPI, and they processed his claim for him. So I dont 
think Allay failed to follow  their process.
The PPI provider told Allay that the claim had been successful on 13 September, and Allay  
spoke to Mr B about this the following day. Ive listened to this call and Allay explained the 
award to Mr B. While Allay didnt specifically say to Mr B that they advised him to accept the 
offer, its clear from the call they were doing this. And Mr B accepted the offer made by the 
PPI provider after speaking to Allay. So I dont think Allay did anything wrong.
Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon  the amount of work they 
actually undertook. This means any work done  on any unsuccessful  claims would be done 
for free. Where a claim was successful,  Allays fee may be more  or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just 
because Allays fee is higher than the value of the work they have done for Mr B doesnt  
make their fee unjustified.
Mr B is unhappy about Allays attempts to recover their fees. Because  he didnt think  the 
fees were justified, he would find any attempts to collect them unwanted and unacceptable. 
But Allay  were entitled to charge their fees, so they were also entitled to attempt  to try to 
collect them.
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 required the CMR to introduce a fee cap for 
PPI claims.  The fee cap came into force on 10 July 2018. From this date,  claims 
management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success fee of more  than 20% plus VAT.
But, on 11 May 2018, the CMR issued guidance  to all claims management companies. This 
said from  the date of this guidance you should  inform  all new or potential  clients of the 
upcoming change  to the fees you can charge. In December  2018, the CMR  told the Legal 
Ombudsman that, once the guidance  had been  issued, we expected  businesses  to inform 
all new or potential clients of the change to the fees that could be charged.
I wouldve  expected  Allay to have clearly  told Mr B in June 2018 that the fee cap came into 
force on 10 July 2018. But I havent seen that they did this. Ive also not seen anything to 
show me that Mr B wanted his claim to be progressed as fast or as soon as possible. Had he 
known of the fee cap, its likely he wouldve waited until after this came into force before 
instructing Allay. He would then only have had to pay a fee of 20% plus VAT.  Because  of 
this I agree with the investigator that applying the fee cap to Allays  fees is a fair and 
reasonable remedy in the circumstances.
I would like to reassure  Mr B that the Claims Management Ombudsman  is part of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  and that we have considered all of the issues hes raised. 
We also share information about complaints  with the FCA.
Ref: DRN62919843my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. Allay Claims Ltd must refund 
Mr B the difference between their fee charged  at 36% including  VAT and the fee cap amount 
of 24% including VAT; plus 8% simple interest  for the period  from Mr B paying  Allays invoice 
to the date of the refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6291984