K820x#14complaint
H, a limited company,  has complained National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt refunded it for 
the costs of a timeshare  membership bought in 2012. It claimed under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  that the membership had been misrepresented.
background
In 2012 when Mr G, a director of H, was abroad, he bought a timeshare membership  from 
Club Class. He only did this after a number of hours of high-pressure  sales.  He paid 
£1,027.22 on Hs NatWest business  credit  card. Mr G calculated, based on what  hed been  
told by the timeshare company, hed make £3,000 worth of savings by booking  holidays over 
a four year period.
After getting back  to the UK, Club Class told him hed not been  approved  for credit  so he had 
to pay the full subscription upfront.  Mr G wanted to cancel but was told this wasnt possible. 
He paid a further £3,000 in three online transfers. When  Mr G tried to book holidays and get 
the discounts hed been promised over subsequent years, he was never able to. He then 
realised that everything  hed been told was a lie. He made a claim to NatWest  under 
section 75 for a refund of what hed paid Club Class. NatWest told Mr G they wouldnt refund 
the money. Hed made the initial credit card payment on Hs business credit  card.  This didnt  
fall under section  75.
Mr G didnt agree and brought Hs complaint to the ombudsman  service. Our adjudicator 
reviewed the complaint  but agreed  with NatWest and their interpretation  of the legislation.
Mr G asked an ombudsman to consider Hs complaint. He also pointed out that H was not a 
limited company at the time of the transaction.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator. Ill explain  why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to claim a refund  of money 
they paid to a supplier  when entering  into an associated credit agreement, like Hs credit 
card agreement. There are circumstances  that apply before we consider whether there is 
enough evidence  to show, for example,  the supplier, misrepresented  the contract or broke 
the terms of the contract.  
When we consider complaints that a business  has not paid out on a section 75 claim, we 
dont formally decide that businesss liability under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
We certainly take into account the relevant law and that includes what  section 75 states.  But 
were deciding whether  the business acted  fairly  and reasonably  in declining the claim. And 
in doing that we consider  whether theres  been a misrepresentation  or a breach of contract.
To help me decide whats right here, Ive looked  at what  section  75 says. Ive also seen that 
the business credit card is in the name of H. Although  Mr G told us H was not a limited  
company at the time of the transaction, he has since agreed  it has always  been a limited  
company. And thats certainly what Hs Companies House records  which  I re-checked   
Ref: DRN60567482state. H was incorporated as a limited company on 27 June 2003 and its status has 
remained the same since  then.
Section 75 confirms that if the debtor (H in this scenario) has a claim against the supplier for 
a misrepresentation,  then H has a like claim against NatWest.  Under  the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974,  the debtor means the individual receiving credit under a consumer  credit  
agreement. The definition of an individual includes: (a) a partnership consisting  of two or 
three persons not all of whom are bodies corporate; and (b) an unincorporated body of 
persons which  does not consist entirely  of bodies corporate and is not a partnership .
The Consumer Credit  Act does not apply to a limited company. Therefore the protection 
offered under section 75 falls away when a limited company carries out the transaction,  as 
happened here. I know Mr G feels strongly  there was a misrepresentation here.  I dont 
dispute that. Its just that as H made the credit  card transaction  and held the underlying  
credit agreement  it would not have a like claim against NatWest.  I cannot therefore ask 
NatWest to refund the money paid out.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Hs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6056748