K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
alongside a loan.
background
In 2009 Mr D applied  for and took out a loan during a phone call with Lloyds. At the same 
time he also took out PPI. The policy was a regular premium policy and was designed to 
protect Mr Ds loan repayments in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.
The policy cost around £16 a month.
Mr D told us that at the time he was entitled  to sick pay  six months full followed by six 
months half pay - as well as redundancy pay. He also said he was in good health at the 
time.
Mr Ds loan ran to term, so it closed in 2011.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  the evidence showed  Mr D 
chose PPI by ticking  and signing for it on the loan paperwork. And he went  on to say the 
policy was suitable  for Mr D, so it didnt  appear  hed been mis-sold. But he did say Lloyds 
had to pay Mr D back some  of the commission it received.
Mr D disagrees  the policy  wasnt mis-sold,  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Both parties  agree this was an advised sale where Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr D. 
This means  Lloyds had to take reasonable steps  to ensure the cover was suitable  for Mr D. 
And it had to give him enough clear and timely  information about the recommended product 
so he could decide whether to go ahead with it. Ive kept this in mind in deciding  this 
complaint.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr D PPI was optional?
Mr D says he wanted his loan application approved so he took out PPI  he says he was 
unfairly pressured to take it because the adviser said they preferred lending  to consumers 
who took out protection. Lloyds says it gave Mr D a choice. Ive therefore considered this 
point carefully.
Lloyds says it hasnt  got a call recording of the phone call Mr D had with it. And neither does 
it have a call script.  Its perhaps not surprising Lloyds no longer has a call recording given 
the loan ended several years ago. But this means  I dont know  for certain what was 
discussed or what Lloyds  intended to discuss with Mr D about PPI.
Ref: DRN62286742However, Lloyds has provided  a copy of the loan agreement  it sent to Mr D after the phone 
call as well as a Demands and Needs statement in relation to the advice given about PPI 
during the call.
Looking at the loan agreement, there is a separate section for PPI at the bottom, headed 
Loan Protection Insurance  Statement  of Price, which asked Mr D to tick a box to say he 
wished to take out the cover. And it required  Mr Ds signature. I can see Mr D did both. The 
section also said the cover was optional and it set out the cost of the PPI  both monthly  and 
the total assuming the loan ran to term - separately from any of the loan figures. 
The other document  the Demands and Needs   I can also see said:  
Having considered our advisors recommendation and having  been advised that Loan 
Protection is optional  and not a condition of taking out this loan, you have chosen to take 
Loan Protection insurance.
Im mindful these documents came  after the phone call. But given the way the loan 
paperwork set out and described  PPI, I think it unlikely it was described  as something else 
during the phone call or that the adviser deliberately  or inadvertently  described PPI as 
something Mr D must have. The adviser was recommending Mr D take it out, but Ive not 
seen enough to persuade  me that the adviser went further than that and pressured Mr D into 
taking it out.
So overall I think on balance Lloyds made  it clear  to Mr D that he had a choice and that Mr D 
agreed to take out PPI knowing he didnt have to and without any undue  pressure.
did Lloyds do what it should  have  done?
if not  to what extent  has Mr D lost out?
In summary  Mr D says the adviser didnt ask him any questions about  his existing means 
such as sick pay and savings. And he didnt tell him about the cost and the circumstances in 
which the cover would or wouldnt  pay out. 
Ive already said I dont  know  exactly what the adviser discussed with Mr D or the precise 
steps he took to establish whether PPI was suitable  for Mr D. But looking at the Demands 
and Needs document it seems to me there  was a discussion  with Mr D about his existing 
means because it records  his answers  to some questions about them  for example Do you 
have any existing insurance, employee benefits, savings or other means  to cover your loan 
commitment if you become unemployed? which was recorded as No.
So the adviser appears to have taken some  steps  to establish if Mr D had a need for cover  
and whether it was suitable. I also think Mr D was given  a broad sense of what the cover  
provided  the Demands and Needs  described  it as covering his loan repayments should  his 
financial circumstances change because of accident, sickness or unemployment. I also think 
he was told the cost of PPI  it was set out clearly on the paperwork he signed and I think 
more likely than not it was given to him during the telephone call. I dont think  Mr D would 
have agreed to it on the phone without knowing something about  how much it cost.
But the exact details of Mr Ds existing means  arent recorded. And the evidence doesnt  tell 
me whether the adviser considered the exclusions and limitations of cover and how they 
might affect the policys suitability  for example did Mr D have any health  issues? 
Ref: DRN62286743Its also not clear to me that the adviser  told Mr D clearly about the key features, significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover before he agreed to take it out.
So it appears there were  gaps in the advice  and information process  it doesnt appear Mr 
D was treated entirely fairly and reasonably  in this regard.
But that doesnt mean Mr D should be automatically compensated for the things Lloyds did 
wrong. I need to go on and consider  if, and to what extent, Mr D has lost out as a result of 
these failings. And having done so, I am not persuaded he has. I say this because  I think 
PPI was ultimately suitable  for him. And I dont  think there was anything  about the policy,  
which would have put him off taking it out had he been told more  about them. For example:
Mr D was eligible for the cover and its benefits.
he chose to take it out, so I think its reasonable to assume he was interested  in this 
type of cover.
he appears to have had a need  for cover  while he had some  existing means,  the 
PPI would have  paid out alongside  this and for longer if necessary, so I think it would 
have provided  a useful benefit  to him if any of the insured events happened.
Its not clear Mr D was told the policy would  only pay out for 12 months per claim for 
unemployment (it could have paid out for the whole term for disability.) But given his 
circumstances at the time I think Mr D would  have still considered a policy that paid 
out for this length of time would have been useful to him  particularly given the 
relatively short loan term.
the cost appears  to have been affordable and so suitable. Ive already said I think  Mr 
D was clearly told the cost.
he was employed  and in good  health, so he wasnt  affected  by any of the significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover  for example around existing medical conditions.
the policy provided flexibility because it was a regular premium policy payable 
monthly  so it could  be cancelled at any time and without penalty if it was no longer 
needed or wanted.
I can see Mr D has referred to the policy not having  a pro-rata refund. But this is only 
relevant for single premium policies. And Ive already said this wasnt  what  Mr D 
bought - so this isnt a relevant consideration here.
So overall, I think the policy was suitable  for Mr D for the reasons above;  it was sufficiently 
close to what he thought he was getting  based on the information and advice he did receive; 
and so I am not persuaded he would have acted differently  and declined  PPI had Lloyds 
done anything  more. 
It follows that I dont think Mr D has suffered loss to the extent that he should  get back  
everything he paid for the policy.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
to put that right,  Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN62286744my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr D has not lost out to the extent that 
he should get back everything  he paid for PPI.
But Lloyds does  have  to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6228674