K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains that Virgin Money  Plc unfairly  applied a late payment fee to his account.  
Hes also unhappy that his account was closed. 
Background
In 2018, Mr P opened a credit card account  with Virgin  Money. 
In September  2018, Mr P made a payment towards  his credit card balance. A couple  of days 
later, Mr Ps credit card statement was produced which asked  him to pay at least  the 
minimum payment before  4 October 2018.  As Mr P had made a payment a couple of days  
before, he didnt make an additional payment. So Virgin Money applied a late payment fee to 
Mr Ps account and removed the promotional rate applied to the credit card. 
Mr P complained to Virgin Money. He said it was unfair that it had charged him a late 
payment fee because  hed made  his payment  outside the statement dates. 
Virgin Money investigated Mr Ps complaint. And on 10 October  2018,  it wrote to Mr P to let 
him know it was satisfied theyd applied the late payment fee correctly.  However,  it thought 
Mr P had likely  made an error  by paying a couple  of days early.  To try and resolve  things, 
Virgin Money agreed to refund the late payment fee and reinstate the promotional offer on 
the account. It also applied a two-month  waiver interest and made sure no adverse 
information was recorded on Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P remained unhappy.  He maintained that Virgin Money shouldnt have applied the late 
payment fee. He says Virgin Money are upset that they are not making  any money  from his 
account because  he always  clears his balance before interest is applied. He said 
Virgin Money didnt  make it clear what would  happen if he made a payment before the date 
of his statement. And said transactions had appeared on his credit  card account which he 
wasnt aware of  in other words transactions which he hadnt authorised. 
Following receipt of Virgin Moneys response  to his complaint, Mr P was still unhappy that 
Virgin Money had applied the fee to his account. So, Mr P decided  to contact Virgin Money  
again. Between 10 October and 21 November  2018,  Mr P made numerous phone  calls to 
Virgin Money, which included him speaking to several members of Virgin  Moneys executive 
team. Mr P says that throughout his communications with Virgin  Money, he was firm  and 
put his points across  strongly. Mr P says at no time did he use any inappropriate,  
threatening or abusive language. And he didnt  raise his voice. 
Virgin Money responded to Mr Ps further concerns and explained that the terms and 
conditions of his credit card account explained that the minimum payment must  reach  the 
account by the date on the statement. They also provided a breakdown of the transactions to 
confirm no unauthorised transactions had been  made.
On 21 November 2018, Virgin Money  issued  Mr P with an immediate closure  notice. They 
explained they had made the decision to close the credit card account under  section  17.3 of 
the terms and conditions due to Mr Ps behaviour which stated it could end an agreement  
with a customer if you have been abusive or threatening to our staff.
Mr P remained unhappy.  So, he brought his complaint to our service.  He said Virgin  Money 
had continued  to send him marketing promotions  despite their decision to close his account. 
Ref: DRN61325342Mr P also said Virgin  Money had been rude to him. And that one of their members  of staff 
said they didnt  need to do anything  because theyre not making  any money  from him. Mr P 
suspects that the reason his account was closed is racially motivated. 
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. He didnt make  a finding on whether the 
late payment fee was applied correctly or not. But felt Virgin Money had put Mr P back  in the 
position he would have been in had the fee not been  applied. He suggested Virgin Money  
pay £100 to Mr P because there wasnt any evidence that Mr Ps behaviour had been 
abusive. And the immediate closure  of the account  meant Mr P had less time to sort out a 
new credit  card.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators view. He said £100  doesnt cover the stress and 
damage hes been put through. He says hes now too concerned  to apply for a new credit 
card for fear of further abuse. He also wasnt happy the investigator didnt comment on what  
Virgin Money had said about not making  any money  from him. And that Virgin Money  
refused to follow its own process when dealing with his complaint.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr Ps complaint was passed to an ombudsman  to 
review. 
ombudsman Wests provisional findings  and the parties responses
Ms West came  to a different conclusion to that of the investigator and didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. In her provisional decision she said Virgin Money  hadnt  done anything wrong 
when it applied the late fee to Mr Ps account.  And it had acted in accordance  with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  She also said she was satisfied that Mr P ought reasonably to 
have been aware  of the consequences  of not making a payment  when  he shouldve 
because the terms  of Mr Ps credit  agreement were clear. 
Ms West acknowledged Virgin Money  had refunded  the late payment fee to Mr P as a 
gesture of goodwill. And there was no evidence  to suggest Virgin  Money or any other  third 
party had authorised transactions which Mr P wasnt aware of. 
Ms West also set out what she thought about  Virgin Money closing  Mr Ps account   which  it 
said was as a result of Mr Ps behaviour. In doing  so she noted  that Virgin Money  hadnt  
been able to provide any call recordings of conversations it had with Mr P  during which  
Virgin Money said Mr P was abusive. So, she based  her conclusions on what  she thought  
was more likely in the circumstances on the available  evidence. 
Ms West said Mr P had contacted senior  members  of Virgin Money  on their mobile numbers 
 and that was why no recordings  of his conversations  were available. Ms West said whilst 
she couldnt be satisfied  Mr P had been abusive  towards Virgin Money  staff,  based on the 
comments from both Virgin Money  and Mr P it was clear that the relationship between  them 
had broken down.  So, she didnt think it was unreasonable that Virgin  Money had relied on 
the term it had to close Mr Ps account  immediately. 
Ms West said that there wasnt  enough evidence to conclude that Virgin  Money told him 
they didnt need to do anything for him because they dont make any money from him. And 
she thought Virgin Money had complied  with its processes when  dealing  with Mr Ps 
complaint.
Ref: DRN61325343Ms West also commented on the marketing  promotions sent by Virgin Money  to Mr P. She 
said Mr P should unsubscribe himself from the emails he received from Virgin Money.  And 
said Virgin Money should remove Mr P from its mailing list. 
Mr P didnt accept Ms Wests provisional  decision. In response he confirmed hed spoken to 
senior members of staff at Virgin Money  via mobile  phone numbers. And acknowledged  he 
didnt have a great  relationship with Virgin Money. He said during his conversations with 
Virgin Money he was firm, but wasnt inappropriate, threatening or abusive.  And he was in 
no way aggressive. He says it was in fact Virgin Money who was rude and aggressive. So, 
he thinks Virgin Money were wrong  to close his account in the way it did. 
Ombudsman West is on maternity  leave.  So, the matter was passed to me to consider. In 
October 2019, I issued  a provisional decision,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  why Id decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint about the 
closure of his account. I was satisfied that its likely  some of Mr Ps comments  wouldve been 
unpleasant for Virgin Money to hear and to read, in particular, when Mr P accused 
Virgin Money of being racist and stealing from him, but I wasnt satisfied that Mr Ps 
behaviour was threatening or abusive.  Equally I couldnt say as Mr P had suggested that 
Virgin Money staff were rude, threatening and hung  up on Mr P when  he called. There  were  
no call recordings  of the phone calls Mr P had with Virgin Money. So, I simply hadnt seen 
enough evidence  to conclude that this is what happened.
However, from looking at the available, I was satisfied  that Mr Ps relationship with 
Virgin Money had broken  down. And ultimately  the service  Mr P was expecting wasnt one 
that Virgin Money could  provide. I said this because  Mr P didnt accept Virgin  Money hadnt 
done anything  wrong when it applied  the late payment fee to his account.  So, I didnt find it 
unreasonable that Virgin Money decided to end its relationship with Mr P. But from looking at 
the terms of the account, I thought Virgin Money shouldve provided  Mr P with 60 days  
notice of its intention  to close his account instead  of closing it immediately. I was satisfied 
that Mr P had been put to some trouble and upset as a result of the immediate closure and 
said Virgin Money should pay him £100 compensation.
Regarding Mr Ps other complaint points I said Virgin Money hadnt done anything  wrong  
when it applied the late payment fee to Mr Ps account. And it had done  so in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. I also said I hadnt seen any evidence  of any 
discrimination on the part of Virgin  Money.
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision.  Virgin Money  accepted my provisional decision.  Mr P didnt 
accept my provisional decision. In summary he said:
he never instigated  calls to Virgin Money  senior executives mobile numbers. And it 
was Virgin Money  staff who intentionally  called  him from mobile numbers. Mr P says 
this shows Virgin Money werent following basic complaint handling methods;
Virgin Money have  lied to the ombudsman about  the content of the calls it had with 
him;
Virgin Money chose  to start making  calls off the record and were abusive  towards  
him in the calls and
£100 compensation doesnt adequately reflect the lies and abuse hes suffered
Ref: DRN61325344My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr P for his submissions and Ive thought carefully about what hes said. 
Its not in dispute  that phone calls took place between Mr P and senior executives at 
Virgin Money via mobile phone numbers. And that these calls werent recorded. 
Virgin Money has explained that its executives  called Mr P using their mobile phones  in an 
attempt to resolve his complaint after it had been escalated  to them.  And Ive not seen any 
evidence to suggest as Mr P suspects that that this was done  deliberately  to avoid  the calls 
being recorded.
Mr P says Virgin Money staff was abusive  towards him during the calls. And it was not him. 
Ive already addressed this issue in my provisional  decision, so I dont intend to rehearse 
what Ive already said. So, whilst I recognise  the strength of his feeling, Ive not seen any 
evidence to show that this was the case. 
Mr P also complained that Virgin Money didnt investigate how its staff spoke to him. I accept 
its possible Virgins conduct wasnt as professional  as it shouldve been, just as its possible 
that Mr P may have been abusive over the phone as Virgin assert.  But without  there being 
evidence to determine what happened beyond what either  party has said Im unable to make 
a conclusion on this point. I simply dont have enough evidence.
Finally, for the reasons  Ive already  explained  in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that 
Virgin Money havent done anything  wrong when it applied the late payment  fees to Mr Ps 
credit card. So, I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint on this particular point. 
Overall, having looked  at the available evidence in this particular  case, I think  Virgin  Money 
should have given Mr P more notice that it was closing his account.  I can see that this 
caused Mr P some  inconvenience  because he had less time to make  alternative 
arrangements to secure another credit facility. So, I consider  that Mr P is entitled to some 
compensation. And I think Virgin Money  should  pay him £100  compensation for closing his 
account immediately.  
I acknowledge Mr P says that this doesnt  reflect the amount of distress  hes suffered. And 
the time and effort hes spent  trying to sort things out. But hes not provided any clear or 
compelling evidence  in support of why the compensation should be so much higher. So, I 
think that £100 fairly reflects  the level of distress  and inconvenience caused  to him. And 
although I accept  Mr P will remain  unhappy  with my views, Im satisfied that this decision 
brings to an end what we in trying to sort out this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. Virgin Money  Plc should 
pay Mr P £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by closing his account 
immediately. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Ref: DRN61325345Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P complains that Virgin Money plc unfairly  applied  a late payment fee to his account.  
Hes also unhappy  that his account was closed. 
background
In 2018, Mr P opened a credit card account with Virgin  Money. 
In September 2018, Mr P made a payment towards his credit card balance.  A couple  of days later, Mr 
Ps credit card statement  was produced which asked him to pay at least the minimum payment 
before 4 October 2018. As Mr P had made a payment a couple  of days before, he didnt  make an 
Ref: DRN61325346additional payment. So Virgin Money applied  a late payment fee to Mr Ps account  and removed the 
promotional rate applied to the credit card. 
Mr P complained to Virgin  Money. He said it was unfair that it had charged him a late payment  fee 
because hed  made  his payment outside the statement dates. 
Virgin Money investigated Mr Ps complaint.  And on 10 October 2018,  it wrote  to Mr P to let him know 
it was satisfied theyd applied the late payment fee correctly.  However, it thought  Mr P had likely  
made an error by paying  a couple of days early. To try and resolve  things, Virgin Money  agreed to 
refund the late payment  fee and reinstate the promotional offer on the account. It also applied a two-
month waiver interest  and made sure no adverse information was recorded  on Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P remained unhappy. He maintained that Virgin Money  shouldnt have applied the late payment 
fee. He says Virgin Money are upset that they are not making any money from his account because 
he always clears his balance before interest is applied. He said Virgin  money  didnt make it clear 
what would happen  if he made  a payment  before the date of his statement. And said transactions had 
appeared on his credit  card account which he wasnt  aware of  in other words transactions  which  he 
hadnt authorised. 
Following receipt of Virgin Moneys response to his complaint, Mr P was still unhappy  that Virgin 
Money had applied the fee to his account. So, Mr P decided to contact Virgin Money again. Between  
10 October and 21 November 2018, Mr P made  numerous phone  calls to Virgin  Money, which 
included him speaking to several members of Virgin  Moneys executive team. Mr P says that 
throughout his communications with Virgin Money, he was firm  and put his points across  strongly. 
Mr P says at no time did he use any inappropriate, threatening  or abusive  language. And he didnt  
raise his voice. 
Virgin Money responded to Mr Ps further concerns and explained that the terms and conditions of his 
credit card account explained that the minimum payment  must reach  the account  by the date on the 
statement. They also provided  a breakdown  of the transactions to confirm no unauthorised 
transactions had been made.
On 21 November  2018,  Virgin Money issued Mr P with an immediate closure notice.  They explained  
they had made the decision  to close the credit  card account under section 17.3 of the terms and 
conditions due to Mr Ps behaviour which stated  it could  end an agreement  with a customer  if you 
have been abusive or threatening to our staff.
Mr P remained unhappy. So, he brought his complaint to our service. He said Virgin  Money  had 
continued to send him marketing promotions despite their decision  to close his account. Mr P also 
said Virgin Money  had been rude to him. And that one of their members of staff said they didnt need 
to do anything  because theyre not making any money from him. Mr P suspects that the reason  his 
account was closed is racially motivated.  
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He didnt make  a finding on whether the late 
payment fee was applied correctly or not. But felt Virgin Money  had put Mr P back in the position he 
would have been in had the fee not been applied.  He suggested  Virgin Money pay £100 to Mr P 
because there  wasnt any evidence that Mr Ps behaviour had been abusive. And the immediate  
closure of the account meant Mr P had less time to sort out a new credit card.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators  view. He said £100 doesnt cover the stress  and damage 
hes been put through. He says hes now too concerned to apply  for a new credit card for fear of 
further abuse.  He also wasnt happy the investigator didnt comment  on what  Virgin Money had said 
about not making  any money  from him. And that Virgin Money refused to follow  their own process 
when dealing  with his complaint.
As no agreement could  be reached, Mr Ps complaint was passed to an ombudsman  to review. 
Ref: DRN61325347ombudsman Wests provisional  findings and the parties responses
Ms West came  to a different  conclusion to that of the investigator  and didnt uphold  Mr Ps complaint. 
In her provisional decision she said Virgin Money hadnt done anything wrong when it applied  the late 
fee to Mr Ps account. And it had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the account. 
She also said she was satisfied that Mr P ought reasonably to have  been aware  of the consequences 
of not making a payment  when he shouldve because the terms of Mr Ps credit agreement were  
clear. 
Ms West acknowledged  Virgin Money had refunded the late payment fee to Mr P as a gesture of 
goodwill. And there  was no evidence  to suggest Virgin Money or any other third party had authorised  
transactions which Mr P wasnt aware of. 
Ms West also set out what she thought about Virgin Money closing Mr Ps account   which it said 
was as a result of Mr Ps behaviour. In doing  so she noted that Virgin Money hadnt been able to 
provide any call recordings  of conversations it had with Mr P  during which Virgin Money  said Mr P 
was abusive. So, she based  her conclusions on what she thought was more  likely  in the 
circumstances on the available evidence. 
Ms West said Mr P had contacted senior members  of Virgin  Money on their mobile numbers   and 
that was why no recordings of his conversations were available. Ms West said whilst she couldnt be 
satisfied Mr P had been abusive towards Virgin Money staff,  based on the comments  from both Virgin  
Money and Mr P it was clear  that the relationship between them had broken  down. So, she didnt 
think it was unreasonable that Virgin  Money had relied on the term it had to close Mr Ps account 
immediately. 
Ms West said that there wasnt enough evidence to conclude that Virgin  Money  told him they didnt 
need to do anything for him because they dont make  any money  from him. And she thought  Virgin 
Money had complied with its processes  when dealing with Mr Ps complaint.
Ms West also commented on the marketing promotions sent by Virgin Money  to Mr P. She said Mr P 
should unsubscribe himself  from the emails  he received from Virgin Money. And said Virgin Money 
should remove Mr P from its mailing list. 
Mr P didnt accept Ms Wests provisional decision. In response he confirmed  hed spoken to senior 
members of staff at Virgin Money via mobile  phone numbers. And acknowledged he didnt have a 
great relationship with Virgin Money. He said during his conversations with Virgin  Money  he was 
firm, but wasnt inappropriate,  threatening  or abusive.  And he was in no way aggressive. He says it 
was in fact Virgin Money who were rude and aggressive. So, he thinks Virgin  Money were wrong to 
close his account  in the way it did. 
Ombudsman West is currently on maternity leave. So, the matter has been passed to me to consider.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, (as 
some of it is here) Ive reached my conclusions on the balance of probabilities   that is, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened considering  the available evidence  and the wider 
circumstances.
late payment  fee
Mr P has explained he avoided having  to pay interest on his credit card balance by making payments  
every 30 days. So, I can understand that he wouldve  been quite surprised when  he realised Virgin  
Money had applied a late payment fee to his account  - especially as hed  made  a payment a couple 
of days  before his credit  card statement  was issued. But having looked  at the terms and conditions  of 
Ref: DRN61325348Mr Ps account, Im satisfied that Virgin  Money didnt  do anything wrong when it applied the late 
payment fee. Ill explain why.
The terms  and conditions set out that the minimum payment must  reach  a customers account  after 
the statement date and by the payment date shown  on the account  statement. And that if it isnt 
received within these  timeframes, Virgin Money will apply a late payment default  charge. Im satisfied 
that the terms of the agreement, which both Mr P and Virgin Money  had to comply, are clear. And that 
Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware of the consequences  of not making a payment when he 
should. 
I can see that Mr P made a payment of £194.51  on 12 September 2018. But his statement  wasnt  
produced until 14 September  2018.  And this set out that he was required to make his minimum  
payment of £13.14 by 4 October  2018. As Mr P made a payment before 14 September  (statement 
date), the payment reduced  his balance  but didnt count towards his minimum payment. Mr P didnt 
make any payments between  14 September 2018  and 4 October  2018. So, Im satisfied, Virgin  
Money correctly  charged Mr P a late payment fee of £9.00.
When Mr P complained to Virgin Money about the fee being applied,  it recognised that Mr P had 
simply made a genuine  error when he made his payment  too early. So as a gesture of goodwill, it 
refunded the late payment charge, applied  a two-month  interest waiver to the account and reinstated  
the 0% interest offer on Mr Ps account. It also made sure no late payment  markers were  recorded  on 
Mr Ps credit  file. So even  if I were to conclude that Virgin Money had applied the late payment fee 
incorrectly, Im satisfied Virgin Money has put Mr P back in the position he would have been in had it 
not been  applied.  And done enough to put things right. 
transactions
Mr P says Virgin Money has stolen  from him. So, Ive looked at Mr Ps account  statements 
between September 2018 and November  2018 in order to identify any unauthorised transactions. 
Having done so Im satisfied that the transactions which  appear on the statement  coincide with the 
events which led to this complaint  that is the payment Mr P made on 12 September, the late 
payment fee and the refund  of the late payment  fee. 
Im not aware Mr P has disputed any specific transaction  apart from the late payment fee, which 
has already  been refunded. And Ive not seen  any evidence that, as Mr P has suggested Virgin 
Money has stolen from him. So, I think its more  likely than not that all the transactions which  appear 
on Mr Ps statements are genuine.
response to Mr Ps complaint
Mr P says Virgin Money staff were rude and aggressive  to him when he called  to complain about the 
late payment  charge. And says Virgin Money havent investigated how its staff spoke to him. Its 
possible Virgins conduct  wasnt as professional as it shouldve been,  just as its possible that Mr P 
may have been abusive over the phone as Virgin assert.  But without there being  evidence to 
determine what  happened  beyond what either party  has said,  Im unable to make a conclusion  on this 
point. I simply dont have enough evidence.
closure of account
Mr P is unhappy  that Virgin Money closed  his account due to his behaviour. Hes consistently said 
whilst he put his point of view across strongly to staff, his behaviour wasnt abusive or threatening.  He 
suspects that he has been the victim of racial  discrimination. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr P thinks hes been the victim of discrimination. I can only imagine how 
distressing he may find that thought. However, whilst I recognise the strength of his feelings, Ive not 
seen any evidence to show any form of discrimination on the part of Virgin Money.
Ref: DRN61325349A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer  may close an account  with a 
bank. But before  a bank closes  an account,  it must do so in a way, which  complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account. These state that Virgin  Money could close Mr Ps account immediately  
under certain circumstances. And in other circumstances by providing him 60 days  notice. Virgin 
Money says it closed Mr Ps account immediately  because Mr Ps behaviour was threatening and 
abusive.
Its not in dispute that Mr P spoke to several members of Virgin Moneys executive team about his 
complaint. Unfortunately, Virgin Money has not been able to provide any call recordings of its 
conversations with Mr P. So, I dont  know the exact details of what was discussed. However, it has 
provided a copy of its complaint review notes detailing  the contact it had with Mr P. And copies of 
emails it received from him. So, Ive looked at this evidence, along  with Mr Ps submissions when  
deciding whether  Virgin  Money was entitled to close  Mr Ps account  immediately.
Whilst I can understand its likely some of Mr Ps comments wouldve been unpleasant for Virgin 
Money to hear and to read, in particular, when Mr P accused Virgin  Money  of being racist and stealing 
from him, Im not satisfied that Mr Ps behaviour was threatening  or abusive. Equally I cant say 
Virgin Money staff were  rude, threatening  and hung  up on Mr P when he called. I simply havent seen  
enough evidence  to conclude that this is what happened.
However, from looking at whats gone on here, Im satisfied that Mr Ps relationship with Virgin 
Money had broken down. I think Virgin Money  tried its best at a very high level to help Mr P. But 
ultimately the service Mr P was expecting isnt one that Virgin Money provide.  I say this because  Mr 
P doesnt accept Virgin Money hadnt  done anything wrong when it applied the late payment fee. So, 
I dont find it unreasonable that Virgin  Money decided to end its relationship with Mr P. But from 
looking at the terms of the account, I think Virgin Money shouldve provided  Mr P with 60 days notice 
of its intention to close his account instead of closing it immediately.
Mr P says the closure of his account caused him stress and inconvenience. And that he will now have 
to go to the trouble of applying for another account, which  may impact in his credit  rating. Im satisfied 
that Mr P hasnt lost out financially by Virgin Money closing his account  immediately. And I havent 
seen any evidence that Mr Ps credit rating has been adversely impacted by this. I can see that Mr P 
regularly used  his account  so I can appreciate  Mr P wouldve have been put to some inconvenience 
when his account was closed without notice. Im therefore of the opinion that the £100 recommended  
by the investigator fairly compensates Mr P. So, I dont intend to ask Virgin  Money to do anything  
more. 
my provisional  decision
I now invite  Mr P and Virgin Money  Plc to give me any further information theyd like me to consider  
before I make my final decision.
Ref: DRN6132534