K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz), as the insurer, should  
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to Allianz as the seller 
in my decision. 
Mrs P says Allianz mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs P took out with a charge card in 1990. It was added  
to her account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
her and Ill explain my reasons why.
Allianz had to make  it clear  to Mrs P that the policy was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could  be applied  to the account.  Allianz  has said the optional  nature of the policy  was 
made clear. Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. In this section there is a box to tick if PPI is 
required and on Mrs Ps form the box has been  ticked. If Mrs P didnt want  to take out the 
PPI, she could have  left this box blank. Mrs P has signed the overall application which 
suggests that she agreed with everything  that had been entered.
So, on balance, I think Allianz  made  it clear  the policy was optional  and Mrs P chose to take 
it, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
Allianz didnt recommend  the policy to Mrs P. This means it didnt have to check if the policy 
was right for her. But it did have to give her clear enough information  to enable  her to decide 
for herself if she should take the policy.
Its possible  the information Allianz  gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But even if Allianz had given her better  or clearer  information, I dont think it 
would have made a difference.  I still think she would have taken the policy. I say this 
because Mrs P was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations to the cover,  such as having unusual working arrangements or 
suffering from a medical condition of which she was already aware.
Mrs P has said she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. But 
this policy  would pay out until she was able to return to work or until the outstanding balance 
was paid  whichever came first. And this would  be in addition  to, and potentially for longer 
Ref: DRN69006322than, any sick pay she may have received. The policy would also have provided cover  for 
the same  term if she was to lose her job. As Mrs P has told us she didnt have any savings 
or other means with which to meet her repayments if she wasnt earning, I think  this policy  
could have provided her with a useful benefit if something had gone  wrong.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think Mrs P has lost out as a result  of 
anything that Allianz may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6900632