K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Mrs M opened  a store  card account  in a shop in 2000. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Ms store  card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included life cover  and purchase cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ms application  for the store card. It includes a section on 
Account Cover (a form of PPI). It instructs  the applicant only to sign if they require  the 
cover. Mrs M has signed specifically  to indicate  that she wished  to take the cover. I think  
that it would  have been clear  to Mrs M from the way the form was set out that the PPI 
was optional. And given that she signed specifically to take the cover,  I think  she decided  
to take it, knowing  that she had a choice-  although I can understand why she may no 
longer remember this, so many years later.
FICL didnt advise  Mrs M to take out the policy. So it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. But it still needed  to make  sure it gave  Mrs M enough information to 
enable her to decide  for herself  if she wanted PPI, knowing  what  alternative means shed 
have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
Ref: DRN65751132Mrs Ms told us shed have been  entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay from her employer if shed been  off sick. But if shed made a successful claim on 
the PPI, it would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her store  card. 
And it would have  done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or she 
returned to work, or the outstanding balance had been repaid- whichever was the 
earliest. So it would potentially  have covered Mrs M for longer than shed have been 
entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition  to any 
payments she received from her employer. So I think the policy  could have been useful 
for Mrs M, especially as shes told us she didnt have any other means she could have 
used to make her store  card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job.
Mrs M says she wasnt given  enough  information to make an informed decision about 
whether the policy  was suitable for her. I accept that its possible the information FICL  
gave Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.  But Ive concluded  
that she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if 
shes understandably forgotten that now. She was eligible for the policy,  and doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things it didnt cover (for example 
provisions about unusual working  arrangements or existing medical conditions). Im 
satisfied that it would have been  clear from the application  form that there would be 
monthly premiums to pay for the cover. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the policy  
was unaffordable for Mrs M.
Taking everything into account,  Im not convinced  that better information about  the PPI 
would have put Mrs M off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result  of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ms comments,  including what  shes  said about  not having  
been told she had the option of looking elsewhere for an alternative policy.  But FICL wasnt 
obliged to tell Mrs M about products that might have been available from other  providers. So 
this doesnt change my conclusion.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6575113