K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Newcastle Building  Society mis-sold  them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs M took out PPI alongside  a mortgage in 1999. The policy protected  their 
mortgage monthly repayments in the event  that Mr M couldnt  work as a result of accident  or 
sickness.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with our adjudicators view so the complaint  has been passed  to 
me. They mainly say that Newcastle Building  Society told them  it would look at their 
mortgage application very favourably  - but only if they took out PPI. And they feel they didnt 
really need PPI in view of the benefits Mr M wouldve  got anyway from his job if he was ill or 
injured.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint. 
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage and the PPI during a meeting at a Newcastle Building 
Society branch.  
Its understandable  that Mr and Mrs M mightnt be able accurately to remember in detail 
everything that happened in 1999 when they arranged their mortgage  and the PPI. And after 
so long there are no notes  available to show me what was discussed. So what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint. I have to decide  what I think  is 
most likely, taking into account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances. 
On balance I think Newcastle Building  Society probably made Mr and Mrs M aware that the 
PPI was optional  and that they chose to have it to cover Mr M.
I can see that theres a section on their signed mortgage application headed PAYMENT 
PROTECTION PLUS INSURANCE (ACCIDENT, SICKNESS & UNEMPLOYMENT 
COVER).
Just below this on the form it asks Would you like this valuable cover? and offers Yes and 
No tick box options.
On Mr and Mrs Ms completed application  the Yes box is ticked  and theyve selected the 
type of cover  required  accident and sickness only.
They also completed  a form confirming that they had been offered this insurance. This form 
offered them  various options  the first one mentioned was We do not require this insurance 
. 
Ref: DRN69951602Or they couldve chosen the option that said they were arranging  insurance elsewhere. 
Both these  options  are crossed through on the form Mr and Mrs M signed  and theyve 
chosen the option which says: We would like to take Payment Protection Plus offered by the 
Newcastle Building  Society. Please send us an application form.
I dont know precisely what was said about the PPI. But I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve seen 
that they had the option to decline  PPI if they hadnt wanted to take it out. And although 
Newcastle Building  Society may well have encouraged them to decide to have the PPI, Ive 
not been shown that what  it said and did clearly amounted to unfair pressure to do so.
The mortgage deal they chose offered them a discounted rate if they also chose to take out 
certain insurance offered by Newcastle Building  Society. This particular deal gave them a 
choice of having PPI as one of the qualifying policies.  
Taking out policies  that offered buildings and contents insurance were also possible choices. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage application I can see that they didnt want to take out 
the buildings  and contents insurance  that Newcastle  Building Society offered  they 
indicated that they already had cover  arranged elsewhere. 
The mortgage was still available  without the discount if they hadnt  wanted to have PPI. 
But I can see why Mr and Mrs M mightve  wanted to take advantage of the benefit of having 
a discounted rate on their mortgage as this reduced the overall  cost to them.  And I think  its 
likely that they chose the PPI as this was one of the available insurance options  in order  to 
qualify for the discounted rate on offer.
Having to take out the PPI as one of the conditions of this mortgage  doesnt mean that the 
PPI was mis-sold. It was open to Mr and Mrs M to take the mortgage without PPI, paying a 
higher interest  rate, or to look around  for a different mortgage deal which didnt include PPI 
in order to get a preferential  interest  rate.
Taking all this into account, I find the mortgage  paperwork does  make  it clear that it was up 
to Mr and Mrs M to choose if they wanted to take out the policy with their mortgage  and 
that they opted to take out cover for Mr M at the time.
Newcastle Building  Society says it didnt recommend the policy  to Mr and Mrs M. And even if 
Mr and Mrs M feel that the PPI was recommended  to them,  I dont think a recommendation 
to have PPI wouldve been unsuitable   so this doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. 
But Ive looked  carefully at whether Newcastle  Building Society gave Mr and Mrs M enough 
information to make a proper decision  about  whether PPI was right for them   and if it didnt 
do this, Ive thought  about  whether that makes any overall  difference  to what  happened.
Mr M has told us he had excellent work benefits. But if he made a successful claim on the 
policy for accident or sickness  it wouldve paid out on top of any work  benefits. As Mr M 
mightve also had some  additional  costs if he was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled,  
I think this couldve been a useful benefit  at a difficult time  especially  as it looks  like Mrs M 
was only working part time. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs M say they had some savings. But there was no 
guarantee when  they took out this mortgage  that they would always  have  savings to rely on. 
Ref: DRN69951603Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs M could also keep  any savings secure  in the long term as 
they wouldnt have  been forced to use this money  to pay the mortgage. 
The policy provided Mr and Mrs M with long term protection as Mr M couldve made  
repeated claims on it. And they were borrowing a large amount over a potentially long 
period, secured against their home, so failing  to keep up the repayments couldve  had 
serious consequences for them.
So I think its fair to say that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M, they couldve  
benefitted from having it and I can see why they mightve wanted this protection. 
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont  think its likely 
that being told more information about  things the policy didnt  cover  wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Ms decision to take out the policy to cover Mr M for accident  and sickness. He 
wouldve been able to claim on the policy in all the circumstances  he couldve reasonably 
expected. 
Its possible some of the information  Newcastle Building Society gave  Mr and Mrs M about  
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  I dont  know  if they knew what  the PPI would 
cost at the time they applied for the cover.  But the monthly premium  appears on their 
mortgage offer, so Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  able to see what  it was going to cost them 
each month. Ive seen  nothing to suggest that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums. 
Overall its possible there  were some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd  been  better  informed as the 
policy gave them useful  additional protection in their particular situation.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments about the way another PPI claim hes made  was 
dealt with. We look at all cases on their own merits, taking into account the particular  
circumstances which apply in each individual case. I am concerned here just with 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about  the PPI Newcastle Building Society  sold them  with their 
mortgage. So this information doesnt  change my conclusion. 
I would also just mention  that Newcastle Building  Society wasnt required to provide 
information about other PPI sellers.
Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs M have said so far, including the 
comments made in response to our adjudicator. I appreciate they feel very strongly about 
this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment.  In this 
decision Ive dealt with all the main points raised  that have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN69951604what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Ill briefly summarise the main points  that Mr M made when  speaking  to us after receiving my 
provisional decision. Mr M told us that there  was a lot of pressure on him and his wife for the 
mortgage to go through  and taking out PPI would reduce  their risk if anything happened to 
him. He said that he told the adviser  at Newcastle Building Society  that he would still get 
paid even if he got injured. 
Newcastle Building  Society hasnt  made  any further  comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs M are certain about everything theyve told us. But I cant  
uphold their complaint  just based  on what they say  I have to look at all the available 
information and the wider  circumstances when reaching my decision. And where theres  a 
dispute about what happened, or incomplete information, I have to decide  what  I think is 
most likely overall. 
After taking carefully into account  everything thats  been said in response to my provisional 
decision, I still dont  think that Ive seen  enough  to be able to say that Newcastle Building 
Society mis-sold  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. I dont know  what  Newcastle Building Societys 
adviser said to Mr and Mrs M about the PPI. But I think the way that information was set out 
in their mortgage paperwork made it clear that the PPI was an optional feature  and they 
chose to take it out. If they hadnt  wanted the PPI, they could still have had the benefit of the 
discounted mortgage rate if theyd chosen different  insurance instead  or they couldve had 
the mortgage without the discount. I also think that the PPI offered them  a useful benefit, 
even taking into account Mr Ms sick pay from his employer. So I still think its fair not to 
uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained  in more detail my provisional decision.  
Looking at what Mr M said to us in response  to my provisional decision, Im not sure if 
Mr and Mrs M also wish to complain that Newcastle Building Society  mis-sold  them  their 
mortgage (not just the PPI). But if so, then they will first need to complain to Newcastle 
Building Society about this so it has a chance to comment. If they do that and they feel that 
complaint isnt resolved satisfactorily  then they will be able to complain to us about it. But 
I cant comment further on this in my decision here as it isnt something  Newcastle  Building  
Society has yet had any opportunity to respond to. In my decision Ive just dealt with 
Mr and Mrs Ms PPI mis-selling complaint. 
Ref: DRN69951605 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN6995160