K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Temple Finance Limited  (trading  as Perfect Home)  visited  his home 
without consent.
background
Mr S has an account with Perfect Home  a credit  provider. When Mr S set up his account 
he selected his preferences to ensure he wouldnt have any home visits. However,  in March 
2019 he received  a text message which said he would be receiving a home visit the 
following day.
Mr S complained as he had opted  out of home visits and he found the message threatening. 
He called Perfect Home.  It explained to Mr S that when he updated his phone number on his 
account, his preferences defaulted back to allowing  home visits. It changed his preferences 
immediately but explained that it could take 24 hours to update. As he had called  the same  
day as his home visit was scheduled, the home visit was likely to still happen as the systems  
wouldnt update  in time.
Mr S was unhappy with this and referred  his complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt 
think his complaint should be upheld.  She explained  that the home visit happened because  
Mr Ss preferences  defaulted to home visits when he updated his account, and this was 
changed as soon as he called Perfect  Home. The home visit was also scheduled in because  
Mr S was in arrears. The investigator  also explained that Mr S explained  his circumstances 
to Perfect Home during a phone call and it put things in place to take into account his short-
term financial difficulty. So she didnt  think  it had done anything  wrong.
Mr S disagreed. He explained that he specifically  opted out of home visits, and when he 
spoke to Perfect Home  he explained  he didnt consent to the home visit, so if it went ahead 
then it would be deemed as trespassing. So he believes this home visit shouldnt have 
happened. He asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint so it has been  passed to 
me. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr S opted  out of home  visits, so I can understand why he was upset when he received a 
text message from Perfect Home explaining that it would be visiting his home the next day. 
When he spoke to Perfect Home it explained what had happened. I understand that when 
Mr S updated his phone  number  his preferences defaulted to allowing home visits. Whilst 
this must have been frustrating for Mr S, I dont think Perfect Home as done  anything wrong. 
Mr S could have reviewed his preferences  when he updated his account to prevent this from 
happening  and when he contacted Perfect  Home  I can see that it updated his preferences 
immediately. Unfortunately this was on the same day as the scheduled visit so the agent  that 
was in the area wouldnt have been  notified.  So the home visit went ahead. And as the home  
visit was scheduled  it because Mr S was in arrears, I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Perfect Home to have  organised this in the first place  in line with his account preferences  
at that time. Perfect Home  explained that it can take 24 hours  for the system to update  and 
the agents wouldve been given their home visit lists prior to the update happening. So there 
Ref: DRN62653042was no way of calling off the visit. So although I can see why that is frustrating for Mr S, I 
dont think Perfect  Home acted unreasonably.
Ive listened to a telephone conversation between Mr S and Perfect Home where he 
explained he was in temporary financial difficulties.  Perfect Home  took account of this and 
made changes to take into account Mr Ss situation. This is what Id expect it to do so I think  
it has acted fairly.
I do understand that it must have been  frustrating and upsetting for Mr S to have received 
the text message and home  visit during a difficult period. But this doesnt mean that Perfect 
Home has done something  wrong. The preferences changed when Mr S updated his 
account, this is how Perfect Homes  system  works. And as soon as Mr S told Perfect Home 
he didnt want home visits  it updated  his preferences  on the system  again. Ive seen the text 
message, and I dont  think  the language  is threatening. And I think  Perfect Home acted 
reasonably when Mr S noticed the change, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6265304