K822xcomplaint
Mr R1 complains  on behalf  of his parents Mr and Mrs R that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  
Limited mis-sold them  a home insurance  policy  which was excessively priced and had 
unnecessary cover.
background 
In 2009 Mr and Mrs R took out a home  insurance  policy at their local bank branch. The 
policy continued, with the premium increasing by 72% by the third renewal  in 2012. Mr R1 
has explained that his parents are elderly  and vulnerable. Hes advised us that his father in 
particular has suffered from ill health from 2012 which has worsened over the years. As a 
result, he hasnt been able to look after the family finances. His parents didnt have access  to 
the internet.  It was only in 2016  that his mother was able to express  that she was concerned  
about the very high cost of the policy. The 2016 renewal price was £1,086.77.  
Mr R1 was able to find similar insurance for them online for a very much lower price.  In 
particular when he enquired about the high cost of the policy with Lloyds, he was told that it 
included cover for high  risk DIY. He explained  that it would have been obvious  when selling  
the policy that neither of his parents were  in a position to do DIY.
Lloyds said that the policy was sold in the bank branch  in 2009 and there were no records of 
the sale. However it said the policy  was correctly priced and that it had invited renewal  each 
year. It wasnt aware of Mr Rs illness until 2016. It further explained that the high risk DIY 
cover was in fact cover for extended  accidental damage.
On referral to this service  Lloyds agreed on a goodwill basis to refund some premiums plus 
interest for the policy  years 2013  to 2015  inclusive. This was based on refunding  100% of 
the amounts paid in each of those  years in excess of the 2012 premium (£946.42). Our 
adjudicator asked Lloyds to pay £200  compensation. It agreed  to this. The final offer was 
then a refund of £467.15 plus net interest  of £106.65, with the aforesaid compensation.
Mr R1 rejected the offer. He felt that his parents  had been sold unnecessary cover and had 
been charged excessive premiums.  He also felt that Lloyds  shouldnt have used introductory 
discounts to draw his parents into a policy. He has clarified with me that he is seeking  a 
payment of at least £5,000, based on what he considers to have been a reasonable price for 
a home  insurance  policy against the amount charged by Lloyds.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly the fact that Mr R1 has been able to find much cheaper  cover for his parents doesnt  
mean that Lloyds has overcharged them. Insurers can charge very different  prices for what  
seems to be very similar cover.  Its up to the insurer how much  risk it wants  to attach to the 
cover it provides. In Mr and Mrs Rs case they were sold a five star policy. It had unlimited 
cover for both contents and buildings. Although the actual premium  is based on the risk 
address   the likely  value  of the contents  and rebuild cost.  Unlimited  cover  does save the 
customer from the risk of being  underinsured, and not having  a claim paid in full. Additionally  
Ref: DRN60476232the policy had extended accidental damage  cover. This wasnt  high risk DIY cover. It would 
have covered DIY accidents but also any accidental damage to either contents or the 
building.
We dont generally  tell insurers what they can charge in what is a competitive market.  But we 
are concerned to see that they charge each  customer  fairly within  their own pricing criteria. 
So any customer in a similar position  is charged  a price within a reasonable range for the 
same risk criteria. Taking into account the nature  of the policy  (as Ive set out above) and the 
information given  to us by Lloyds,  I am satisfied  that it has charged  for the policy  fairly within 
its own pricing criteria for the risk presented.
Mr R1 believes the policy was missold to his parents. Unfortunately as the sale of the policy 
goes back to 2009 there are no records of the actual sale in the bank. But I think  it fair to 
assume that Mr and Mrs R chose the policy they wanted. I dont think  it would be fair to 
assume that the accidental damage cover  was unnecessary. So I dont think the policy  sold 
to them  was inappropriate.
The policy did go up in price quite  a lot  by the 2012 renewal it had increased  by 72%. But 
the policy did have  an introductory discount.  And despite Mr R1s misgivings about it, we 
dont think such discounts are unfair. The policy may well initially be priced  below cost price 
and its fair that the insurer will seek to move the policy  to a more realistic  economic price 
over the first few years.
However, an insurers ability to change the price  does of course depend on the consumer 
being able to check that the premiums are reasonable and affordable. And unfortunately in 
Mr and Mrs Rs case, they weren't able to check their premiums after 2012. And, whilst  
Lloyds couldnt  be expected to know about  Mr Rs health, it would have known his age and 
that customers like him are less likely to engage  with it over the premium (they can be 
described as inert customers).  So I think that in Mr and Mrs Rs case,  given they couldnt 
properly engage  and that Lloyds should  have taken  greater care to ensure that they could, 
its fair to peg the policy back to the 2012  premium. So I think  that Lloyds should refund all 
the amounts charged over and above  the 2012  price up to and including the 2015 renewal, 
plus interest to date.
I understand Lloyds  point  that its only recently  that the regulations have changed  so that the 
insurer has to tell the customer at the fourth  renewal  of the likely availability of policies 
elsewhere. But the regulations have always required the insurer to treat its customers  fairly. 
And if a policyholder  doesnt engage  with it after several years  it would be fair to expect the 
insurer to ensure the customer is aware of their right to consider whether the policy/premium 
is still appropriate. And to ensure that more vulnerable customers  who are less likely  to 
engage are catered for.
In this case our adjudicator proposed  that Lloyds pay £200 compensation. Lloyds has 
agreed to this, although on a goodwill basis. I think in the particular circumstances of this 
case, that it is fair to ask it to make that payment.
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has already made an offer to resolve  this complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited should:
Ref: DRN60476233pay to Mr and Mrs R a total of £467.15  by way of refund of premiums.
add interest to the refunded portion of each instalment from the date each was paid until 
the date this award is paid at 8% simple  per year*
pay Mr and Mrs R £200 compensation.
*Lloyds is required  by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr and Mrs R, or Mr R1 on their behalf,  request it, Lloyds should provide them with a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R1 on behalf of 
Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6047623