K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  has not allowed him access to his account. 
He wants an apology  and full answers to his questions, He wants  it to update its website and 
give its staff proper training. 
background
In June 2018 a credit of over £1,000 was paid into Mr Ts account. But Nationwide  blocked 
his account in line with its policies under money  laundering regulations.
Mr T said he has a number of unanswered questions about the decision making process  
behind the blocking  of his account. He told us Nationwide has failed to respond to his 
requests and complaints despite  him contacting it 13 or 14 times  a month. He said it 
unreasonably withheld information, its website is difficult to navigate  and its staff are poorly 
trained. And he believes Nationwide has failed  to understand and properly implement the 
relevant regulations.
Nationwide said Mr Ts account  had an ID required  flag on it. And this triggered a block on 
the account after the credit of over £1,000. It wrote  to him and asked for the required  ID 
documentation. But he said he couldnt  provide  any of the documentation  it requested.  
Nationwide explained  that it has set ID requirements but it does have an exceptions list 
which it offered to discuss with Mr T. But he wasnt happy about this. It said it blocked Mr Ts 
account in line with its policies and procedures which cover  the relevant regulations on 
money laundering. 
Our investigator said he couldnt  look into Nationwides internal process and the legalities of 
the relevant regulations. Those concerns, he said, should be raised with the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). He confined his findings to the block Nationwide placed 
on Mr Ts account in June 2018  and whether itd acted unfairly when it did that. His 
conclusion was that Nationwide had followed its legal and regulatory obligations and so he 
didnt think Nationwide  had been unfair. 
Mr T didnt  agree with those findings. He didnt  accept that this Service has a limited role and 
couldnt investigate  Nationwides internal processes  or its staff training. He asked for specific 
answers to his questions  about Nationwides decision  making  process and the logic and 
rationale of its relevant  legislative  and regulatory obligations. He said the issues of internal 
process, staff training  and regulatory  compliance  etc. are central to his complaints.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive carefully considered  Mr Ts full 
and detailed response to our investigator. But having done  so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. And theres very little I can add to 
what hes already  said.
Ref: DRN62109142I know Mr T doesnt  agree but we cant make  any findings about Nationwides internal 
policies and procedures.  And we cant tell Nationwide  to change them. Thats  because  our 
role is limited. We try to sort out individual complaints between  consumers and financial  
institutions where the consumer thinks theyve lost out. We cant comment on processes 
which apply to all its customers.  Thats the role of the FCA. But we can look at Mr Ts 
experience with those  processes and see if anything has gone  wrong  that has caused  him to 
lose out. In other words  we look at whether Nationwide applied  those internal procedures 
and policies fairly to Mr T. And for the reasons I give below I think it did.
I can see from the email correspondence  Mr T had with Nationwide,  it explained that after an 
update in May 2008, further identification was required  for his account. And it put an ID 
required  flag on it. It said it attempted to obtain  acceptable ID in the past from Mr T. But 
because it wasnt able to do this the flag remained on his account  which triggered the block  
after the credit of over £1,000.
Nationwide didnt have  sufficient identification on Mr Ts account. Mr T says it shouldve 
made its own checks. But as thats  part of its internal procedures its not for us to tell 
Nationwide how it obtains the ID it requires. Mr T says he isnt able to provide any of the 
required documents on the list of acceptable ID. But Nationwide has offered to work with him 
to find alternatives.  I cant fairly ask it to do more than that in its attempt to resolve the 
problem of the block on Mr Ts account.  
Mr T wants answers  to a number of questions he has about the decision making process 
behind Nationwide  applying  the block. I know he wont agree with me but looking at all the 
email correspondence  I think its done  its best to reasonably answer those questions.  And 
looking at all the correspondence I dont think its unreasonably withheld any information. Mr 
T has asked us to comment on the rationale behind the money laundering legislation and 
how Nationwide has implemented it. But as Ive already said thats a matter for the regulator, 
the FCA. Its not for this Service to provide answers  about Nationwides decision making 
process or about  the legislative and regulatory obligations it has to follow. 
Our investigator explained that there are some areas this Service  cant  look into such as the 
way the website is set up and how Nationwide  trains its staff. Mr T doesnt accept our role is 
limited in this way. But the rules we follow are set by the FCA. And they dont allow us to 
make any findings on Nationwides administration of its website or its staff training. So we 
cant tell it to change  these processes.
I can see how strongly Mr T feels about  this so I know  he will be disappointed  with my 
decision. But for the reasons Ive given I dont think Nationwide has done  anything wrong.
Ref: DRN62109143my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6210914