K820x#14Complaint
Ms B complains  that Capital One (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit 
card application  and gave her a credit limit of £1,000. 
Background
On 6 May 2016  Ms B applied online for a credit card with Capital One. Ms B told Capital One 
she was living with her parents  and employed  with an income of £19,000 per year. The 
application was approved  and Ms Bs credit card had a limit of £1,000.  The credit card was 
defaulted in December 2018.  
Ms B complained to Capital One and said it should  have taken the fact she had defaulted  on 
two commitments  shortly before her credit card application into account  before deciding 
whether to lend.  Capital  One didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint  and said it had considered  all 
the available  information before deciding to proceed. 
Ms B referred her complaint to this service  and it was passed  to an investigator. The 
investigator thought  Capital  One had dealt with Ms Bs complaint fairly and didnt find that it 
had lent irresponsibly. Ms B didnt accept  so her complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms B has experienced financial difficulties and wasnt able to maintain the 
payments on her Capital  One credit card which led to it being defaulted. Ive looked at her 
concerns about  the affordability  of the credit  card but I dont agree that Capital One lent 
irresponsibly based on what  it knew about Ms B. 
Ms B complains  that at the time she applied she earned around £850 a month and had 
benefit income of around £875. Ms Bs also told us that her rent was £695 a month and she 
had other  costs of £989. In addition, Ms B has pointed to two defaults on her credit file from 
February 2016 (around three months  before she applied  to Capital One).  Ms B feels that all 
of the above information  should have been sufficient to show her credit card application 
wasnt affordable. But, lenders  can only assess an application based on the information 
available. And, whilst I dont doubt  what Ms B has told us in the complaint form, its not the 
same information that was given to Capital One in the application. 
Ive seen a copy  of the application which says Ms B was employed  with an income of 
£19,000 and living with her parents. The income is broadly the same in both the complaint 
form information and application but Ms B didnt say she was renting in her application  to 
Capital One. 
Capital One also completed a credit  search and Ive been passed  the results  to review. Ive 
seen a more recent  credit  file from Ms B which shows the two defaults from February 2016. 
But the credit search Capital One completed on 9 May 2016  didnt  pick up any recent 
defaults. The only default Ive seen on the Capital One credit report was recorded around 
three years before Ms B applied and the lender appears to have taken this into account  
Ref: DRN67068622when deciding whether to lend. I dont know why the two recent  defaults werent showing but 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Capital One wasnt aware of them when Ms B applied. 
Lenders need to complete proportionate checks to ensure the credit being applied  for is 
sustainable for the borrower. In this case, Capital One asked  Ms B for information in an 
online application and checked her credit  file. Based on what Capital One knew about  Ms B 
it decided to approve a credit limit of £1,000. I know Ms B feels the decision to approve her 
credit card was irresponsible but I havent  found  that to be the case. Im sorry to disappoint 
Ms B but Im satisfied Capital Ones decision to approve Ms Bs credit  card application was 
reasonable based on the information available.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.  
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6706862