K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (the CCA).
Background
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020  concluding that Mrs Ms complaint should  be 
upheld. I also set out what Shawbrook should do to put things right.  I attach a redacted 
version of my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I invited further comments  from both parties  before  I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time. Both Mrs M and Shawbrook accepted my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  overall  conclusions as set out in my provisional  
decision. Both parties have agreed to what I require Shawbrook to do to put things right,  
which I have set out below.
1.Refund the extra Mrs M paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2.Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs M receives  her refund.
3.Refund the extra Mrs M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs M receives  her refund.
5.Pay Mrs M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount  she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I require 
Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
allow Mrs M to keep  the solar panels,
follow the approach  I have described above to calculate the refund Mrs M is entitled 
to,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the payment until 
the date of the settlement; and,
pay Mrs M £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much  it has taken off. If should  also 
give Mrs M a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN62084452Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62084453Provisional decision
Complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following  a claim 
against it under Section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Background
Mrs M was contacted  by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems. Ill refer to it as 
P. Following a sales  meeting, Mrs M agreed to enter into a contract with P for it to supply and install 
a solar panel system at her home. To pay for the system, Mrs M also agreed  to enter into a 15 year 
fixed sum loan agreement  with Shawbrook.  
Mrs M made  a claim under Section 75 (s75)  of the CCA  via her representative. The representative  
said that H had told Mrs M that the solar  panels would be self-funded and that the monthly  loan 
repayments would be more than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. But that hadnt happened. 
Instead, the monthly  loan repayments had been much higher than the income  Mrs M had received.
As Mrs M didnt receive a final response from Shawbrook, she referred her complaint to this service.
Following our involvement, Shawbrook made an offer to resolve Mrs Ms complaint. It said it had had 
worked out the potential savings and income to Mrs M from her solar  panel  system over the term of 
the loan. It offered to restructure the loan so that she wouldnt pay any more  than this over the 15 year 
term of the loan. It also offered Mrs M £200 for the trouble  and upset caused.  
Mrs M, via her representative, didnt accept the offer. The representative said that Mrs M had 
refinanced the Shawbrook loan when  she realised it wasnt  self-funding. She did this as she was able 
to secure a significantly lower interest rate. The representative said that Shawbrook should also 
refund Mrs M the interest she was charged on the loan she used to settle her Shawbrook loan. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint.  She though that in addition to its offer to make the 
solar panel  system self-funding  over the 15 year term of the loan, Shawbrook should  also refund the 
interest charged on the loan used to settle the Shawbrook loan. She also thought Shawbrook  should  
pay Mrs M £200 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Shawbrook didnt accept  the investigators views. In summary it said:
It thought  its current offer was fair as it would make  the solar panel system  self-funding  
based on the amount  that Mrs M borrowed when she took the loan out.
It didnt  think it should compensate Mrs M for the interest  she was charged on the new loan 
as it couldnt be held liable  for any decision  Mrs M made after the entered into the contract for 
the fixed  sum loan agreement.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs M says she was cold-called by P, and during a subsequent sales meeting at her home  told that 
her solar panel system would be entirely  self-financing.  As neither  Shawbrook nor Mrs M dispute the 
benefits of the solar panels  were  misrepresented by P, my decision will deal with what I consider to be 
fair compensation.
Shawbrooks current offer is to make Mrs Ms solar  panel system self-funding over the original term of 
the loan. To do this, it has calculated the expected income and savings to her over the original term of 
Ref: DRN62084454the loan and has said it will restructure the loan so she would pay no more  than this over the 15 year 
term. Usually, I would consider this to be fair and reasonable as it would mean that the system  would 
be cost neutral to Mrs M over the term of the loan.
Shawbrook has calculated that the income and savings that Mrs M will receive over the 15 year fixed  
sum loan agreement will be £7,372.98. It has said it will refund her the difference between the 
expected benefits she should receive  and what she has paid plus compensatory  interest at 8% to 
recognise where she has been deprived of her money. 
However, here Im not satisfied that this provides a fair and reasonable outcome. Mrs M has said that 
when she realised  that her solar panel system wasnt self-funding she decided to refinance the 
Shawbrook loan to a lower interest rate to reduce her losses. By not taking into account the 
refinanced loan and associated interest, Mrs M will have ended  up paying more than the overall 
income and savings  that Shawbrook  said that she will receive. This will mean that her solar panel  
system wont be cost neutral and she will pay more than the £7,372.98 Shawbrook has calculated. 
So, the current offer from Shawbrook doesnt make Mrs Ms solar panel system  self-funding  and 
therefore, I dont consider  it to be fair.
Shawbrook has said it cant be liable for the impact of Mrs Ms decision to refinance her loan. I 
disagree. Mrs M refinanced  her Shawbrook loan to a lower interest rate and I would consider this to 
be a reasonable decision for her to have made. I think, on the balance of probabilities, Mrs M decided 
to refinance her Shawbrook loan as it was clear that the financial benefits she was receiving from her 
solar panels  werent sufficient to meet  her contractual monthly loan repayments. Therefore, she was 
trying to reduce her losses by refinancing  to a different loan provider  at a significantly lower interest 
rate. 
As Shawbrook has already  accepted that it was the misrepresentations  made by P to Mrs M that the 
solar panel  system would be self-funding  that induced her into entering the contract with P, Im 
satisfied that it is liable  for the additional  costs Mrs M incurred by trying to reduce her losses, by 
borrowing money  elsewhere to refinance her Shawbrook  loan.
For the reasons  Ive given above Im satisfied that Shawbrook should take into account  Mrs Ms 
refinanced loan when calculating  its offer to make Mrs Ms solar panel system  self-funding. Ill now 
move on to what I consider  to be fair compensation.
Fair compensation
Ive reviewed the figures that Shawbrook  has provided  to this service. It has said that Mrs M paid a 
lump sum of £9,453.96 to settle the loan and 11 monthly payments of £102.10 (£1,123.10).  This 
means she paid a total of £10,577.06. Ive set out below  the approach  Shawbrook should follow  to 
reach an outcome  that I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Mrs M borrowed £18,478 (including and other fees and interest) to pay for the solar panels.
Mrs M made  11 payments of £102.10  to this loan plus a deposit of £100.
Shawbrook has calculated that the total achievable  benefit of the system over the 15-year 
term of the loan is £7,372.98. Therefore,  the monthly payment should  have been £40.96 
(£7372.98 divided by 180).
This means Mrs M paid an extra £672.54 in total.  Shawbrook needs to refund this with simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date of each payment  until Mr M receives her refund, to 
compensate her for being out of pocket.
Mrs M refinanced her Shawbrook  loan with a new loan (Loan 2). She borrowed £10,099.80 
(including any other fees and interest).  To settle her Shawbrook loan Mrs M paid £9,453.96, 
so all of Loan 2 was for the solar panels (the capital  borrowed was £9,400)
The term of Loan 2 is five years (60 months) and we are currently 32 months into the loan.
To repay Loan 2, Mrs M must pay £168.33 every month. All of this is for the solar panels.
Ref: DRN62084455When whats left of the total achievable benefit is adjusted to reflect  the term of Loan 2, the 
monthly payment should  be £113.71.  
o(The total achievable benefit is £7372.98. £550.56 has been  already been accounted 
for [£40.96 multiplied  by 11 plus the £100 deposit], which means  £6,822.42 is left. 
The term of Loan 2 is 60 months  £6,922.42 divided  by 60 is £113.71.)
This means Mrs M has paid an extra £54.62 when she made  her Loan 2 payments  so, 
assuming she made all contractual payments to date,  Mrs M has paid an extra £1,747.84 in 
total with Loan 2. (£54.62 multiplied  by 32 months)
Shawbrook needs to refund this with simple  interest at 8% per year from the date of each 
payment until Mrs M receives her refund, to compensate  her for being out of pocket.
Assuming Mrs M made their contractual payments, she still has 28 months to go and still owe 
£4,713.24 on Loan 2
Mrs M should be paying £113.71 a month  so the outstanding  loan balance  should be 
£3,183.88 (£113.71 multiplied  by 28, the remaining loan term).
This means the business should pay Mrs M £1,529.36 to reduce  it. (It doesnt need to pay 
simple interest  on this amount.)
In simple terms, to put things  right Shawbrook  needs to:
6.Refund the extra  Mrs M paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
7.Add simple  interest from the date of each payment until Mrs M receives her refund.
8.Refund the extra  Mrs M paid with the refinanced  loan.
9.Add simple  interest from the date of each payment until Mrs M receives her refund.
10.Pay Mrs M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she wouldve  owed 
if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient  information available at the time that Mrs M first contacted 
Shawbrook that means her claim should have been upheld. The fact that this didnt  happen 
undoubtedly caused her trouble and upset and consequently Ill make  an aware of £200 to reflect  this.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party by 26 September  2020, my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld.
In full and final settlement  of it, Im minded to require Shawbrook Bank Limited to:
allow  Mrs M to keep the solar panels,
follow the approach I have described  under  the heading Fair compensation to calculate the 
refund Mrs M is entitled  to,
add 8% simple interest*  to any overpayment made from the date of the payment until the date 
of the settlement; and,
pay Mrs M £200 for the trouble and upset  caused.
*If Shawbrook  Bank Limited considers that it is required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much  it has taken  off. If should also give Mrs M 
a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6208445