K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his accounts and retained his funds 
without giving him a proper  explanation  why.
background 
In late 2017 Mr P had dropped into his local branch to see what  their attitude would be if he 
started trading  bitcoins.  Its fair to say their response was non-committal.  Mr P went  ahead 
and started trading bitcoins.
In February 2018  Barclays were  notified  by two customers  that payments  sent to Mr P had 
not been made by them. These  were  payments of £250 and £980  which credited Mr Ps 
Barclays current account on 2 and 5 February. Barclays blocked Mr Ps accounts which he 
noticed when  he tried to use his debit card.
Barclays felt it was unlikely Mr P had sold bitcoins to two different sets of fraudsters around 
the same  time so after a review decided to close his two accounts. They ring-fenced £420.68 
which they believed  was the money  left in his account that could be related to these two 
fraudulent payments. They  also placed £921.28 in a suspense account which was the 
remainder of funds from his two Barclays accounts  (£274.63 and £646.65). At the time 
Barclays also placed a marker against Mr P on the industry fraud database,  CIFAS.
Mr P quickly  realised he was having  difficulties opening another account.  He was also 
finding his dealings with Barclays increasingly Kafkaesque. They couldnt talk to him 
because he was no longer an account  holder  and couldnt pass security. Theyd completed 
their investigations  in February but then wrote  to him asking him to evidence  the senders of 
roughly 30 more payments. 
He brought his complaint  to the ombudsman service. Barclays  realised they didnt have 
sufficient evidence to show Mr P had participated in any fraud so removed the fraud-related 
marker. They admitted  they should have  released the money  they held in May 2018 so 
agreed to pay him 8% interest  on that amount for the period theyd held onto the money 
unnecessarily (22 May to 5 December 2018). They also offered him £300 compensation for 
this error.
Mr P initially  accepted this offer. But after reviewing what  had happened, he believed  
Barclays had also held onto £420 which was rightfully his. Our investigator explained this 
wasnt so. However she asked Barclays to pay Mr P an additional £250 in compensation. 
This was in recognition of the inconvenience caused by a fraud-related marker being lodged 
against Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree with this outcome. He restated his belief that he should be paid 
considerably more compensation  £10,000. As well as requiring £420 back which  he 
believed was his.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN67694852Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than more than 
two years of wrangling for Mr P may merit. Im also not going to cover all the points he 
raised. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key 
issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects which  
impact the decision Im making.
Its worth  confirming  this service has received many detailed emails  and correspondence  
from both Barclays and Mr P and Ive reviewed  these carefully in coming to my decision. Ive 
also considered  the views of 16 January 2019 and 5 March  2020 that our investigators 
completed.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Banks are allowed to decide  they dont wish their customers to be involved in certain  
activities. Trading bitcoin  can fall into this category. I appreciate Barclays  never made this 
clear to Mr P when he first asked them about  this  and some of the aggravation may have 
been eased if theyd done so. We regularly see cases where bitcoins are sold to fraudulent  
third parties unknowingly  by a genuine  seller.  The seller receives  funds but unfortunately 
these have been got from somebody whod not bought the bitcoins nor had authorised the 
payments.
In these cases banks  are allowed to ring-fence  payments that can be traced to the incoming 
fraudulent payments. Having looked at the evidence in Mr Ps case,  I can see Barclays  were 
confident the payments Mr P had received for £980  and £250 had never  been  properly 
authorised. They therefore took action to review  Mr Ps accounts and ring-fenced £420.68. I 
dont believe  up to this stage Barclays had done  anything wrong.
The review  Barclays undertook resulted them in believing  Mr Ps account  activity opened 
them to too much risk. They took steps to close his accounts. At the time Barclays  believed 
Mr P could well have  been involved in the fraud.  Theyve since  accepted this wasnt  the case 
but at the time this meant  Mr Ps accounts were closed immediately and a fraud-related  
marker was lodged.
I dont believe Barclays ever had sufficient evidence to lodge  any fraud-related marker. 
Theres a high bar to cross before doing this and having looked at what happened, Barclays 
didnt meet the relevant  tests. I suspect they also realised  this and thats why they removed 
the marker  from Mr Ps record.
On this basis Mr P should also have  been given two months notice of Barclays  intention to 
close his accounts.
After carrying out the review, there  were  some undertakings which Barclays should have met 
 that included releasing funds which were not in dispute (£921.28  in Mr Ps case) when it 
was clear there were  no further fraud claims. Barclays  failed to do this.
Ref: DRN67694853In all Barclays has agreed to pay £550 to Mr P for what happened. I believe this is fair and 
covers:
The error in not returning his money to him in May 2018;
Closing his accounts without providing  two months notice; and
The inconvenience  caused by lodging a fraud-related marker.
8% simple  interest was also payable  on the £921.28  which  Mr P didnt get back  in May 2018. 
I know Mr P queried the amount of interest  that was paid to him (along with £300  
compensation) but Ive looked at the timescale Barclays used for the additional interest and 
this seems correct to me.
Having reviewed this case, I think its fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to pay Mr P an 
additional £250 in compensation. Im aware there is a considerable shortfall between what 
Mr P believes is fair and my thoughts  on this. I also will not be asking them  to repay  him 
£420.68 as that money came from fraudulent payments.
I know Mr P has been awaiting resolution  on his complaint for a considerable period. Im 
sorry this has been the case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Mr P 
an additional  £250 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6769485