K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mishandled the payment of his mortgage 
endowment policy upon maturity.
background
Mr C held a mortgage  with BOS and a mortgage  endowment policy with a third-party 
insurance company.  He contacted BOS  on 22 January 2019 to notify them that his 
endowment policy was due to mature on 1 April 2019 and that he wanted to know what the 
process was for having the funds  transferred. 
Mr C is unhappy as he says BOS told him different  versions  of how their maturity process 
would work.  He says they ought to have sent a letter of no further  interest to the insurance 
company so that the funds could  be paid directly to him, but that they failed to do so. The 
mortgage endowment  policy matured on 1 April 2019, and he subsequently received the 
funds on 19 June 2019.
Mr C says that BOSs actions delayed the payment of his funds and he is unhappy with their 
lack of standard operating  processes. He says that their process  deficiencies  resulted in him 
paying excess mortgage fees. As a result, he wants them  to compensate  him for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by their handling of the matter.
BOS denied that they had given incorrect information to Mr C and said the correct process 
had been followed. In summary, they said:
They would typically wait for the insurance  company to contact them  about  their 
intentions with the maturing funds, but if the customer contacts them first (as in 
Mr Cs case) they will begin the maturity process  at that point;
BOS would only issue a letter of no further interest if the mortgage  had already been  
paid in full. But if there is still a balance outstanding, they would  ask that the funds 
are repaid to them directly, with any surplus  then being paid to the customer;
Mr Cs mortgage account was still live and had an outstanding balance  at the time, 
which was why they requested the funds  and did not send a letter  of no further 
interest. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  BOS had caused any 
significant delays  in the payment of Mr Cs funds  upon maturity,  and she didnt think there  
was enough evidence to suggest that he had been  given conflicting  information. And even if 
he had been given incorrect information,  the correct process was ultimately  followed,  so she 
didnt think it wouldve caused  any substantial detriment  in any event.
Mr C disagreed, so the matter has been  passed  to me to determine. He maintains that he 
had multiple interactions  with BOS and received different information each time, which  
resulted in the delay of the transfer. He wants their processes to be reviewed, and requested 
that we listen  to the calls he had with BOS.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Ref: DRN63669322After providing specific date ranges, BOS were eventually able to locate and provide us with 
copies of the calls theyd had with Mr C in relation to the maturity  of his endowment  policy. 
There were six calls that took place between 21 January  2019,  and 24 May 2019. 
I can see that Mr C actually  was given incorrect information in the first call he had with BOS  
on 21 January 2019, as he was told that he needed a letter  of no interest and that they 
would be sending one to the insurance company. I can see this has led to a certain level of 
confusion, as Mr C was under this impression until BOS told him during a call on 
21 March 2019  that theyve requested the funds because there was an outstanding balance  
on the mortgage. 
I appreciate that the service could have  been  better, as Mr C was given conflicting 
information by the different advisors he spoke to. But I dont consider this to warrant an 
award of compensation in the circumstances because, having reviewed their internal 
process, it appears that the correct procedure was ultimately followed given that a balance  
remained on the mortgage. And I cannot  see that the provision of this mis-information has 
itself led to any substantial delays.
I say this because,  despite having told Mr C they would be sending  a letter of no further 
interest, BOS subsequently sent a letter to the insurance company on 13 March  2019 
requesting the funds  as they should  have (and as they ought  to have told Mr C they would 
be doing from the outset). And given that the endowment policy was not set to mature  until 
1 April 2019, the funds would not have been released any earlier  than this, and BOS also 
said they chased the funds on 4 April 2019  when they hadnt heard anything  from the 
insurance company.
BOS further contacted the insurance  company  on 15 April 2019, where they were told that 
there had been  a delay in the funds being  sent because  Mr C had been in contact to claim 
the funds himself, which had caused  confusion in light of BOSs  request for the funds. I 
appreciate Mr C only did this as a result  of what he had been told initially. But given that the 
policy was already assigned to BOS   and given they had already sent requests/chasing 
letters for the funds   it seems to me that the delay here was largely caused by the 
insurance company  as I think its reasonable to expect that they would have followed the 
instructions of the party to whom the policy was assigned. 
It also appears that any further  delay in the funds being received by BOS  was a result  of 
them not receiving  the cheque from the insurance  company  in good time and having to 
request it again.  The cheque was eventually received by BOS on 5 June 2019. The 
remaining balance of the mortgage was paid off and the surplus funds were paid to Mr C on 
19 June 2019.  
I appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr C to have to wait to receive  the funds, but 
ultimately, I dont consider  the eventual time taken to be unreasonable in the circumstances. 
And I understand that an additional  amount  was eventually  paid to cover the late payment of 
the mortgage to ensure Mr C was not impacted  financially.
So although  Mr C was initially given incorrect information, the correct  procedure was 
ultimately followed. And BOS also made  efforts to chase the insurance company for the 
funds when they hadnt heard anything. So while I appreciate the service provided could 
Ref: DRN63669323have been better, I dont consider the particular  failings  in this instance  to warrant an award 
of compensation  in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6366932