K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  through  their daughter Mrs R that Key Retirement Solutions  Limited  
recommended an equity release product for them in 2008 that was unsuitable.  Mr and Mrs P 
would like to have the mortgage  cancelled  and interest and charges repaid. 
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs P were aged  70 and 71. They had a mortgage  free home and a shop 
and a flat. They had a number of debts including a personal loan and a credit card and a 
debt to a colleague. So, to pay these  off, Mr and Mrs P wanted  to access just over £80,000. 
Although the suitability  letter from Key recommended that they shouldnt  proceed with equity 
release, they went ahead in any case.  Mrs R says that Mr and Mrs P should  have been 
directed to a debt counselling agency or recommended  a home reversion scheme.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she didnt believe 
that Key had done anything wrong.  Mr and Mrs P disagreed  saying in summary that at this 
time in 2008  they had an immediate need for money and believed that they had no other 
option but to take out the equity release mortgage.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P had been self-employed in their working life and in 2008 were  retired.  
According to the Equity Release Questionnaire (ERQ),  at that time, Mr and Mrs P had an 
income of £3,294.76 per month and were spending  that. The income  was comprised of 
pension income  and a rental income from a shop and flat which are recorded as being 
valued at £330,000. The ERQ says that to service the loan and credit cards that Mr and Mrs 
P were paying £1,171 per month.  So, it records Mr and Mrs P as wanting to pay off these to 
increase their monthly available income.
Mrs R in her email to us of the 29 June 2019 tells us that the situation  was different in that 
rather than the income  being sufficient to pay off the debts as they fell due, Mr and Mrs P 
were having  to find over £1,000 per month to pay off the debts and were  in a financial crisis.  
Mr and Mrs P would have got the ERQ  of November 2008 with the personal  suitability report.  
The personal suitability  report also refers to their income  as £3,294.76 and that Mr and 
Mrs P were  happy with their current income  levels. These documents were shown to Mr and 
Mrs P so I must assume that they did in fact record  what Mr and Mrs P told the adviser. I can 
only assess Keys recommendations  on the information that was available  to the adviser at 
that time which was that Mr and Mrs P could service  the loans but it was leaving them  with 
no disposable income. 
In the event, Key didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs P take out the equity release mortgage 
as a means to repay the debts. The adviser  quite clearly says that I therefore do not 
recommend that you release funds from your property  to repay your liabilities and you repay 
them from the proceeds of the shop sale. It then records that Mr and Mrs P were  told about 
Ref: DRN65099332the interest accumulation in equity release but that they were adamant that they wanted  to 
proceed in any case. The adviser having  recommended that Mr and Mrs P didnt take out an 
equity release mortgage then assisted Mr and Mrs P by sourcing a mortgage that would be 
suitable for Mr and Mrs P. 
Mr and Mrs Ps stated  intention was that when they sold the shop  that they would then 
redeem the mortgage. It follows  on that they didnt want a home reversion plan as they 
wanted the house to remain in their name and Key sourced a mortgage  without an early 
repayment charge.  Im not sure why the plan to redeem the mortgage didnt happen. 
I assume that the interest  on the mortgage  has since eaten  into the equity in their home but 
presumably this could  have been  avoided had Mr and Mrs P sold the shop and discharged 
the mortgage as seems  to have been their original intention.  
Mrs R in the complaint  form says that Key didnt advise Mr and Mrs P to seek debt help from 
a more specialised debt counselling service.  Key specialises in advising on equity release 
products and is not a debt adviser  or debt referral agency. So, I cant  fairly  criticise Key for 
not providing an advice service  that it didnt hold itself out as providing. Where a customer  
wishes to consolidate  debt into a mortgage  we expect to see the equity  release  adviser  
make a close examination  of the proposal and provide a series  of warnings. In this case  that 
included a warning  not to take out the product which seems appropriate. So, I dont see that 
Key has done  anything  wrong particularly when Mr and Mrs P appeared to have had a clear 
strategy to exit the mortgage. The fact that this strategy wasnt  followed doesnt appear to be 
the fault of Key. For the above  reasons I cant fairly uphold  this complaint. 
  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6509933