K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Western  Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat)  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr B had seven loans with Cashfloat, as summarised in the table below.
Loan no. Start  date Amount Repaid
1 19/04/2017 £200 30/06/2017
2 03/07/2017 £400 31/08/2017
3 01/09/2017 £600 29/12/2017
4 04/01/2018 £400 28/02/2018
5 06/04/2018 £400 04/05/2018
6 11/05/2018 £500 31/08/2018
7 31/08/2018 £650 17/06/2019
An adjudicator considered  Mr Bs complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. They 
didnt think Cashfloat  should have approved loans 4 to 7. Cashfloat  said it didnt agree with 
the adjudicator  (although it didnt say why)  and so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. As theres been no ongoing  dispute about loans 1 to 3 since  the adjudication,  my 
decision will only focus on the four loans still in dispute.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN68862212refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending  history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Cashfloat ought to have  realised Mr B was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. There was a gap of just three  days  between  loans 1 and 2, one 
day between loans  2 and 3 and then six days between loans 3 and 4. So Cashfloat 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr B was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that 
Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr Bs first loan was for £200  and loan 4 was for £400. At this point Cashfloat ought 
to have known  that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall in 
their income but to meet an ongoing need.
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashfloat. Loan 7 was 
taken out 16 months after Mr Bs first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr B had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Cashfloat over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Bs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN68862213So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 7 and Cashfloat  should put things  right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 4 to 7
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 to 7 should be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat  must give 
Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put 
things right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before16 May 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6886221