K820x#14complaint
Miss C says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 4 payday loans that QuickQuid provided to Miss C between April 
2015 and October  2016. This is a summary of Miss Cs lending history  from QuickQuid:
Loan 
numberTaken outRepayment 
dateAmount
1 17/4/2015 21/5/2015 £200
2 22/6/2015 5/8/2015 £150
3 15/8/2015 20/11/2015 £50
4 20/10/2016 - £300
As there was a gap of nearly 11 months between  Miss C repaying loan 3 and taking out loan 
4, I am treating loan 4 as a new chain of lending.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint saying she didnt think  that QuickQuid  had 
been wrong to give the loans to Miss C. Miss C disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN68018642refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
QuickQuid says it accepted Miss Cs applications  after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenses which showed that the repayments were affordable.  It explains how it 
validated the data she provided using  external  benchmarks. And in these circumstances it 
wasnt irresponsible to lend. 
Miss C argues that her credit report wouldve shown she was in significant financial difficulty  
as far back  as 2015. I can see QuickQuid completed credit checks at the point of each loan 
application, although it hasnt shared what information it received. 
The information Miss C might  see on her credit file might be very different to that seen by 
QuickQuid. It might  only see part of the credit  file; some data might be missing, summarised 
or anonymised; or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences 
between the information QuickQuid saw and what Miss C says her credit report  wouldve 
shown at the time. And Quick Quid  could only make its decision  based on the information it 
had available  at the time.  
As it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Miss C, as the loan values 
decreased each time between loans 1 to 3 and there was then a significant  break  between  
loan 3 being repaid  and loan 4 being taken, I dont think  it had reached the point where it 
wouldve been proportionate for it to ask Miss C for the amount of information that might 
have shown the lending was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss C provided or the information QuickQuid 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
she was saying. 
It follows I dont think QuickQuid did anything  wrong  when it agreed  to give these loans to 
Miss C. So I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN68018643I understand QuickQuid  has waived the outstanding balance  on loan 4 that went into arrears 
during the course of this investigation, and it is removing the related adverse data from 
Miss Cs credit file. This correction may take up to 45 days  to be processed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6801864