K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) defaulted his credit card 
account whilst he was disputing a transaction on the account.
background
Mr P had a credit  card with Nationwide with which he purchased two concert tickets. 
In mid-2018 Mr P attempted  to claim the money  back for the concert tickets under section 75 
of the consumer credit act, because he believed he was mis-sold the tickets. Nationwide  
decided not to pursue the ticket sellers under section 75, as it said there  wasnt enough 
evidence to do so. 
Mr P brought his complaint about Nationwides decision to us. Whilst that complaint was 
being considered he said to Nationwide  he wouldnt  repay the balance of the transaction  
from his credit card.
Nationwide contacted Mr P to ask that he continued  to make payments towards his credit  
card balance. However, Mr P didnt make any further payments. And so, after several 
months, Nationwide defaulted Mr Ps account and recorded the default on his credit file.
Mr P wasnt  happy as he felt Nationwide shouldnt  have  defaulted  the account whilst he was 
waiting for his complaint to be resolved by our service.  The default that was recorded  against 
him meant he was unable  to purchase a property he wanted to buy. So, Mr P made a further 
complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide said it had applied  the terms and conditions of Mr Ps credit  agreement fairly and 
said it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr P disagreed and so asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator felt Nationwide had explained to Mr P the consequences of not making his 
minimum repayments and felt Nationwide had applied the terms fairly. Mr P remained 
unhappy and so the complaint has been  passed onto me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has brought a separate  complaint to us about  the section 75 claim. I appreciate the 
effort Mr P has gone to, in supplying a lot of background  information  to his complaint. 
Whilst Ive looked  at everything Mr P has sent,  I must make  it clear this decision  will solely 
address the issue  of Nationwide applying a default to Mr Ps credit  card account.
So, the issues to determine in this complaint  are whether Nationwide made it clear to Mr P 
the consequences of not making the minimum repayments toward his outstanding balance. 
And also, whether  Nationwide  applied the terms and conditions of the credit  agreement in a 
fair and reasonable way.
Mr P had a credit  agreement with Nationwide, this meant hed agreed to make at least  
minimum repayments for purchases  he made  on his credit card. This formed  part of the 
terms and conditions of the credit  agreement.  
Ref: DRN61514842The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps agreement say If you do not make the minimum 
payment by the payment  due date you will be in breach of your agreement and one or more  
of the following consequences may apply: (b) you will incur a late payment fee; (c) we may 
report your breach to credit reference agencies; (d) you may find it more  difficult  to obtain 
credit in the future 
When the balance  of Mr Ps account was £277.59, he stopped  making any further  payments. 
He explained  that he felt he was entitled to that amount of money back  under the section 75 
claim. Mr P decided he would withhold his payments  whilst his complaint was still being  
investigated by our service. 
I understand Mr P believed his complaint would be upheld. But, until such  times as his 
complaint was resolved, I dont think it was reasonable of him to deviate from the terms of 
his credit agreement.
When Mr P stopped making  repayments to his credit card, arrears were recorded on his 
account and late payment  fees added in line with the terms of the account. Nationwide sent 
Mr P monthly statements which included a notice of arrears. The statements also explained  
that, by not paying the minimum repayment, Mr P had broken the terms of the credit 
agreement. And Mr Ps payment  record would be reported to the credit reference agencies.
Nationwide wrote to Mr P in August and September 2018 about the section 75 claim.  
In those letters Nationwide addressed  the fact that Mr P said he wouldnt  repay  the balance. 
It warned Mr P that interest  and fees would be added to the account and it may lead to 
adverse data being reported to the credit reference agencies.   
Nationwide also provided further examples of the letters it says it sent Mr P informing  him his 
account was in arrears  and asking for him to make  a repayment towards his account. 
Mr P says during a call, Nationwide told him it would wait for a decision from us. Mr P felt 
Nationwide meant  it wouldnt take any action against  him whilst the complaint was with us.
 
Nationwide provided  recordings  of the relevant calls. During one call, Mr P had spoken about 
the section 75 complaint  and Nationwide said it would wait for a resolution from us. 
However, Nationwide didnt say it would delay  applying  the default  to the account and I think  
it gave a clear explanation  of why the default  was being recorded and the steps Mr P could  
have taken to avoid it. 
In the calls Nationwide told Mr P that, as he hadnt made his minimum repayments for 
several months, a default would be recorded  against his account  and that information  would 
be held by the credit reference agencies for up to six years.  In the call Mr P replied thats 
fine to the explanation given. So, I think he understood his account was going to be 
defaulted.
Therefore, I think Mr P was given enough  information by Nationwide, in several letters  and 
phone calls, as to the consequences of not making  the minimum repayments towards his 
outstanding credit card balance. 
I appreciate Mr P feels strongly  he shouldnt have to make payments towards a transaction  
he felt he should  have been refunded. But he doesnt dispute making the purchase  using his 
credit card and he had a credit agreement with Nationwide which  meant he was obliged to 
Ref: DRN61514843make at least minimum repayments. The rules say businesses should look to default  an 
account if no payments  have been made for several  months. This prevents  further  interest 
and fees being added  to the account.  
Nationwide gave Mr P several opportunities to prevent the default being  recorded but Mr P 
chose not to act on Nationwides  warnings. Nationwide applied a default after four months of 
missed repayments and reported accurate information to the credit  reference agencies. 
Therefore, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly  or unreasonably when it applied the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ps account.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, but I dont uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6151484