K820x#14complaint
Miss H says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as Pounds to Pocket,  lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss H borrowed  one instalment loan from Pounds to Pocket  in April 2011. The loan amount  
was £1,050 and it was due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of about £160.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
didnt think Pounds  to Pocket had lent to Miss H irresponsibly.  Miss H didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide. 
To be clear, what follows is solely my decision on Miss Hs complaint about irresponsible 
lending. It doesnt  address  any of the service  issues Miss H previously raised with the 
business as those have been  dealt with as a separate case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
At the time Miss H asked  for her loan Pounds to Pocket was regulated by the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT).  The OFT had published  guidance for lenders about  irresponsible  lending  (the 
ILG). In simple  terms Pounds  to Pocket  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Miss H could  repay  her loan in a sustainable manner. These  checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
Ive seen that before lending to Miss H, Pounds to Pocket obtained some information  about 
her circumstances. It seems that Miss H told it she was employed,  paid weekly and lived in 
rented accommodation.  But theres no evidence Pounds  to Pocket obtained  any information 
about Miss Hs income and expenditure. It does seem to have carried  out a credit check but 
I havent seen  the results  of this.
Overall, I dont  think that Pounds to Pockets checks for this loan were proportionate. Miss H 
was making a long-term commitment to repay credit for about a year and so I would expect 
to see some analysis of Miss Hs income and expenditure. I havent seen that Pounds to 
Pocket did this  but that doesnt  automatically mean the complaint should  be upheld.
I say this because  I also need to think about what Pounds to Pocket wouldve seen if it had 
carried out proportionate checks. 
Miss H says her income at the time was £800 a month. On that basis, I dont think monthly 
loan repayments  of £160 look inherently  unsustainable. And had Pounds  to Pocket asked 
Miss H some  questions about her regular monthly expenditure (such as her housing costs  
and other  regular bills) I dont think it wouldve found the loan to be unaffordable. I dont 
Ref: DRN69591632think, for example, that in making an application for credit, Miss H wouldve provided 
information about her expenditure which wouldve suggested the loan wasnt affordable.
Its possible that more  thorough  checks,  such as checking bank statements, before lending 
mightve revealed the loan was not affordable  for Miss H. But this was Miss Hs first loan with 
Pounds to Pocket and Ive no reason to believe  it was aware Miss H was in financial difficulty 
before it lent to her. So I think it would be disproportionate to suggest Pounds  to Pocket  
shouldve carried out checks like this.
Ive considered the points Miss H has raised  about having a disability.  Ive not seen  that 
Pounds to Pocket was aware of this before lending to Miss H (although it did become aware 
at a later date). So Pounds to Pocket couldnt have taken this into account when it made its 
decision to lend to Miss H.
I understand this this will be disappointing  for Miss H but I am unable  to uphold her 
complaint.
my final decision
I do no uphold Miss Hs complaint against  CashEuroNet UK LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6959163