K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains Advanced Payment Solution Limited, trading as Cashplus,  will not refund a 
disputed transaction.
background
Mr H complained to Cashplus about a payment which had been taken out of his credit  card 
account via a continuous payment authority.  He said he had cancelled  his previous card 
because he was in dispute with the company who had taken  the payment.
Mr H says he told Cashplus he wanted to cancel but it failed to prevent a further  payment 
and instead passed on details of his new card to the business.
When Mr H complained, Cashplus carried out a chargeback on the transaction  whereby it 
challenges the payment with the merchants bank. The merchant defended the chargeback  
so Cashplus rejected Mr Hs complaint.
Our service then looked into matters for Mr H.  Our investigator thought  Cashplus should  
refund the amount of the disputed transaction  not because it had provided the merchant 
with Mr Hs new card details  but because the relevant regulations  say that if a customer  
were to ask to cancel  a CPA, that request should be followed through.  Any subsequent 
payment taken is deemed to be unauthorised and so must  be refunded.
Mr H accepted this outcome  but Cashplus did not respond so the matter  was passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so, I arrive at the same 
conclusion as the investigator.
At the crux of this complaint is what Mr H told Cashplus  when he first made contact  to cancel 
his card.  He cannot recall the conversation  and Cashplus has failed to send the recording 
to us. So, I have  to decide what I think is more  likely  to have happened here in the 
circumstances of the case.
In the second  call to Cashplus (which has been sent to us), Mr H could see the payment 
pending and he tells the representative that he is concerned about the payment going 
through because  he is in dispute with the business.   He tells the representative that he had 
cancelled a previous card so cannot understand how this has happened.  The representative 
tells him that cant be possible.
I think, on balance,  Mr H did mention the dispute with the business on his earlier call when 
he cancelled  his old card.   And I think at that point Cashplus should have cancelled the CPA.  
It failed to do so  so the further  transaction which Mr H complains of is unauthorised and 
needs to be refunded.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN61957742Advanced Payment Solutions  Limited  should  refund  £354.77 to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6195774