K822xcomplaint
The late Mrs Bs daughter complains on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs B that she was 
overcharged by St Andrews Insurance Plc for the 24 years  her buildings insurance  policy  
was in place.
background 
Mr and Mrs B took out a buildings  insurance policy through their mortgage lender when they 
bought their home in 1991.  In 1995 Mr B passed away  and the policy transferred into the late 
Mrs Bs sole name. The mortgage theyd  taken out for £15,800  was interest  only and the 
monthly insurance premium payments were  linked to the mortgage account. 
In 2016 the mortgage  term came to an end and Mrs Bs daughter (Mrs W) settled the 
outstanding balance on the mortgage account.  It was at this point she discovered that the 
lender had added the insurance  premiums  to the mortgage account. She felt the premiums 
that had been charged  were disproportionate and extortionate. 
Mrs W complained  to St Andrews on behalf of her mother.  She said the house  was modest 
and shed been able to secure cover online for £50 for the year against the last renewal price 
offered by St Andrews was £380. Mrs W cancelled Mrs Bs policy  and asked St Andrews for 
a refund. She also said her mother hadnt  received any renewal documents,  or information  
about her insurance  being attached to her mortgage, or that she had the option to move  her 
custom to another  insurer.  Mrs W said St Andrews  knew that Mrs B was receiving help with 
her modest monthly mortgage payments (£41.42)  from the government yet it was charging 
her almost  as much each  month for her buildings cover (£31.73). 
As she received  no response from St Andrews to the complaint, Mrs W brought a complaint 
to this service on her mothers behalf.  Our adjudicator  investigated the complaint and, 
following her involvement,  St Andrews  said it would make the estate of the late Mrs B a 
financial offer in order to settle it. St Andrews offered to refund the difference  between  what  
Mrs B had paid in 2008 and the amount she had paid every  year after that up and until 2015 
(the policy year in which Mrs W cancelled the policy). This came  to £221.68. St Andrews 
offered to pay simple  interest on this amount at 8% a year from the date each premium was 
paid to the date it made the refund. It also said it would pay £200 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience that had been  caused.  Our adjudicator  thought the offer was a 
fair offer in all the circumstances. 
Mrs W, acting  on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs B, didnt think St Andrews offer was 
fair. Mrs W said she didnt  think her parents  ever understood  they were  paying for insurance 
and queried whether they had signed anything. She also said she thought the premiums  in 
full should be refunded  from 2009 onwards because there  was no evidence  her parents had 
ever consented to the policy  or required it. Mrs W thought the refund should come to about 
£4,000. She asked for the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within this complaint  I can only look at what happened  with Mrs Bs policy  since  2002, as 
that is the point  at which St Andrews became the insurer/underwriter.  I appreciate  that the 
Ref: DRN68569812policy brand  hasnt changed  throughout  the lifetime of the policy. But as its the 
insurer/underwriter that sets the premium, I can only look here at those premiums  set by St 
Andrews. Before 2002, another insurer was responsible for underwriting the policy and 
setting the premiums so I cant reasonably look into what it did within the context of this 
complaint. 
Its not for me to tell St Andrews what price  it needed  to charge Mrs B for her buildings 
insurance. Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk of her needing  to make a claim 
and its wider commercial requirements. But I can intervene if I think  St Andrews has treated 
Mrs B unfairly in the way its priced  her policy. 
Following our adjudicators investigation  of the complaint, St Andrews offered to pay the 
estate of the late Mrs B £221.68. This amount  represents a partial refund of her premiums  
from 2009 until 2015. St Andrews took the premium offered at the 2008 renewal (£276.10)  
and refunded the difference  between that amount and the premiums  paid in each of the 
subsequent years up to and including 2015. 
St Andrews  has offered  to pay interest on each annual payment from the date Mrs B paid 
her premiums to the date it pays her estate the compensation offered. And its offered the 
estate a further £200 as an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
In deciding what fair compensation should  be, Ive taken into account Mrs Bs premium  
history, her personal circumstances and our approach to these types of cases more 
generally. Having  carefully considered the offer made, I think that it represents fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. Its difficult to work out what saving a consumer 
wouldve made over the years. Just because a consumer (or their representative)  has 
recently identified  a much cheaper policy, doesnt mean thats  the price they wouldve paid 
over the intervening period. Insurers are entitled to reassess the risks they are presented  
with at renewal each year and set the price  accordingly. 
It is worth mentioning here that Ive seen a copy of the lenders  original mortgage  application  
form from 1991. There is a section within it dedicated to property insurance and it says 
there that its a condition  of the mortgage  that the property is insured. Mr and Mrs B were  
required to sign this section of the policy. A condition that buildings  insurance is taken out is 
common to most mortgages.  The lender typically requires the building  to be insured  so that, 
in the event it is damaged by an insured event, the building will be repaired by the insurer.  
This means  the value of the property  the asset  against which  the lender loans the money   
is protected from being devalued. So I cant agree with Mrs W that buildings insurance  
wasnt something her parents needed. It was a condition of their mortgage that it was in 
place. 
And whilst I appreciate that Mrs W on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs B thinks  her policy 
was expensive, as Ive said above,  we dont generally tell insurers what to charge their 
customers. Its a competitive market and one insurers view of the risk involved and how 
much they need  to charge  for it is often very different to anothers. 
For the reasons  given,  I cant agree  with Mrs W that the estate of the late Mrs B, to put 
things right, should receive a larger payment (she has suggested £4,000) than that offered 
by St Andrews. Theres no fixed price for insurance  and its not possible to know  what price 
she couldve  obtained elsewhere and what, if any, savings they wouldve made.  Indeed the 
sum of the total premiums  paid since 2009 comes to just under £1,940.00. Mrs B had the 
benefit of the policy  should she ever have needed  to make a claim and St Andrews took on 
Ref: DRN68569813the risk of her doing so, for which it was entitled to charge. So I cant reasonably  require it to 
pay the estate  of the late Mrs B double the amount  she paid in the years  2009-2015.
Insurance prices  have  come down considerably in recent years in some  sectors and insurers  
often give customers uneconomic new customer discounts to entice them to join. But those 
discounts are generally removed over time. So the price that some new customers can get 
doesnt necessarily  reflect the true cost of providing the insurance or allow the businesses  
involved to make a profit.  It wouldnt be fair for me to say in this case  therefore that the 
estate of the late Mrs B should be compensated for the cheapest price she may have been  
able to obtain from another provider.
my final decision
St Andrews  has already  made an offer to resolve  this complaint and I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances.  
So my decision is that St Andrews Insurance Plc should pay the estate of the late Mrs B 
£221.68 in settlement of the complaint together with the interest* at this services usual rate 
of 8% simple each year from the date she paid each  premium  to the date St Andrews pays 
the estate of the late Mrs B. It should  also pay the estate of the late Mrs B compensation of 
£200 for the trouble and upset Mrs B was caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of the 
late Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
*If St Andrews Insurance Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell the estate of late Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give it a certificate  
showing this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN6856981