K820x#14complaint
Mr P says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a regular payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit  card repayments.
background
Mr P applied for a credit card by post in 1996. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.75 per £100 of the balance on Mr Ps 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding  balance 
for up to 12 months per claim if Mr P was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or lost 
his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld because  she thought Mr P 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr P disagrees. He says he wasnt provided with sufficient information  on the policy. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Mr P completed a postal application for a credit card.  
RBS have given  us a copy of the application  form Mr P completed.  
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI titled  
Payment Protection.  Within the section it gives a brief description of the cover  and says 
For cover  just tick this box. I can see on Mr Ps application  form a tick has been  placed in 
the box. 
I think there is enough there for Mr P to understand he didnt need  to take PPI because  he 
couldve just left the section blank. So I think Mr P selected to take PPI with a tick because 
he wanted the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think RBS advised 
Mr P to take PPI. What this means  is that RBS didnt  recommend PPI to Mr P, it just gave 
him information about PPI. This information  needed  to be given in a way that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so he could make an informed choice about  buying PPI.
I dont know if RBS did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if RBS did 
give all the information  Mr P needed  to make an informed choice on taking out the policy,  
I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what  we know about 
RBS policies:
Ref: DRN61697772He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr P says he was entitled  to some sick pay and had savings he 
could use to make his repayments if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness  or if 
he lost his job. But a successful claim on the policy wouldve  paid out on top of this and 
for potentially longer  up to 12 months  per claim.  So I cant see how knowing this 
information wouldve  put him off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr P and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr P on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
When the policy was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr P about that. 
Because RBS didnt  tell Mr P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6169777