K821x#15complaint
Mr O says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint was about thirteen high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to 
Mr O from June 2017 onwards. Mr Os last loan was provided in July 2018. When  it 
investigated Mr Os complaint, Sunny agreed it shouldnt have provided loan 1 and loans 3 
to 11 to Mr O. So Sunny ended up settling this part of the complaint with Mr O prior to our 
involvement.
When the complaint  was referred here our adjudicator looked at the complaint  about loans 2, 
12 and 13. Our adjudicator partially  upheld Mr Os complaint and thought  that he shouldnt 
have been provided with loans 12 to 13. Mr O accepted our assessment but Sunny 
disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to me. As loans 12 and 13 are now the only ones in 
dispute this decision  is only looking  at them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr O could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr O, I think that Sunny should 
Ref: DRN69499862reasonably have seen that Mr O was unlikely to have been  able to sustainably make  his 
payments for loans  12 and 13. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mr O had a clearly established pattern of taking out further 
loans not too long after paying previous ones. So it ought to have been apparent that Mr O 
was more likely than not borrowing to cover the hole repaying previous loans was leaving  in 
his finances and presumably this is the reason  why Sunny upheld  the complaint about  loans 
12 and 13. 
Sunny continued  lending  to Mr O despite  this pattern being repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr O had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr O paid on loans 12 and 13;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about loans 12 
and 13 on Mr Os credit file is likely  to be adverse. So all reference to these loans  
should be removed  from Mr Os credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Os complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr O compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6949986