K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and Mr B say Bank of Scotland plc trading at the time as Halifax mis-sold them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M and Mr B bought  the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B (not Mrs M) for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £400 a month  towards Mrs M and 
Mr Bs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £20.24  a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a draftsman. He has told us he was entitled to full sick 
pay of between three- and six-months salary, death in service  benefit worth twice his salary 
and redundancy  pay if he lost his job. He confirmed his savings which  he said amounted to 
about £15,000 and were  easily accessible. 
Mr B also later told us that he had a good  job and every year after buying the house he was 
able to save around £7,000 which would be used to redeem the mortgage.
Mr B has also said he suffered with sciatica in around 1993  resulting from a trapped  nerve  
which he told us was caused from bending  over while trying  to fix a car. At that time,  he had 
around two months  off work, took painkillers and had physiotherapy. He also told us after 
three months he was fine again so there is nothing hes said that makes  me think it was an 
ongoing problem.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2001. 
Mrs M and Mr Bs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs M and Mr Bs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M and Mr B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs M and 
Mr Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs M and Mr B about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN60726692The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs M and Mr 
B and the impact  they would  have  had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs M and Mr B received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M and Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs M and Mr Bs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs M and Mr Bs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN60726693Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs M and Mr Bs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs M and Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs M and Mr B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs M and Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN60726694including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M 
and Mr B, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent Mrs M and Mr B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and Mr B 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs M and Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mrs M and Mr B know they had a choice?
In response to our adjudicators view Mrs M and Mr B have said they had no option to refuse 
the PPI as it was part of the mortgage  offer.  Halifax had to make it clear  that the PPI policy  
was optional so I have looked  carefully at the available evidence to help me decide.
There is little paperwork available from the time.  This is understandable and not surprising 
as the sale happened in 1997 over two decades  ago, and businesses  arent required to keep 
its records indefinitely. But where the evidence is incomplete as some of it is here,  I will 
make my decision  based on the balance of probabilities; that is whats  more  likely 
considering the available evidence, what the parties have told me, and also taking into 
account what we do know about  these types of sales.
This policy was taken out in Mr Bs name only so I think that shows  its more  likely that the 
parties had a choice  about who should be covered and that it wasnt compulsory or part and 
parcel of getting  the mortgage.  I also think its likely that Mrs M and Mr B had to complete 
separate paperwork to apply  for the PPI so I think its more likely they would have 
understood that they were  applying  for the PPI and could have refused it if they hadnt 
wanted it. And in relation to pressure,  Mrs M and Mr B havent given me any details about 
why they felt pressured. This is a subjective  matter. What one person feels is pressure 
another person doesnt. Im sorry to disappoint them  but there is not enough evidence  to say 
that any pressure  was applied.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs M and Mr B knew the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mrs M and Mr B agree  that advice was provided  during this sale.  
This means  Halifax had to advise Mrs M and Mr B with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
Mrs M and Mr B say that Halifax didnt explain the terms  and conditions  of the policy.  They 
say they did not explain  the exclusions and limitations in a way which  was understandable. If 
Ref: DRN60726695these things had been explained  properly Mrs M and Mr B have told us they would not have 
wanted the policy.
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M and Mr B. It seems Mrs M and Mr B cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mrs M and Mr Bs financial circumstances, but there is no specific 
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr B would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Halifax considered whether Mr B 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs M and Mr B given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M and Mr B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs M and Mr B had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs M and Mr Bs 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if Mr B was not working for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy benefits, Mr Bs sick pay and the savings they say they had and would 
have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs M and Mr B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M and Mr B. 
There was nothing  about Mr Bs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. And regarding Mr Bs sciatica hes told us about  I cant say 
this would have  been classed as a pre-existing condition.  It seems  to me it was a 
one-off problem in 1993 which was treated and from which Mr B fully recovered. In 
any event, the evidence doesnt suggest to me that this problem from 1993 caused 
Mr B any further problems after he had recovered and so I still think the policy  was 
suitable for him. 
 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs M and Mr Bs 
circumstances. Mrs M and Mr B have told us about their sick pay and savings theyd 
accumulated with the intention of paying off their mortgage  and I accept  they did 
have savings to fall back on. They have  told us they didnt need the cover but it looks 
to me that the policy would have paid out in addition to and for longer than any sick 
pay lasted and would have helped to preserve the savings  or use them for other 
important living expenses if things  went wrong. And if Mr B as the main wage earner 
lost his job or couldnt work through accident  or sickness this policy  would have 
protected the mortgage repayments  relating  to their home and the potential 
consequences should Mrs M and Mr B be unable  to make the repayments on the 
mortgage secured  against their house.
Ref: DRN60726696Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs M and Mr B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M and Mr B were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mrs M and 
Mr B would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs M and Mr B agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M and Mr B Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mrs M and Mr B all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs M and Mr Bs representative has raised  
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs M and 
Mr Bs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs M and Mr Bs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M and Mr B about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs M and Mr Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mrs M and Mr B have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
Ref: DRN60726697what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs M and Mr B? To what extent  did 
Mrs M and Mr B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs M and 
Mr B. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs 
M and Mr B suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mrs M and Mr B would  have  still taken out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs M and Mr B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M and Mr B have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Halifax had explained things  
properly, Mrs M and Mr B would have acted  differently, or whether they would have taken  
out the policy in any event.
Mrs M and Mr B say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs M and Mr B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product,  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs M and Mr Bs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs M and Mr B knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, I cant say Halifax told them the exact premium at the point Mrs M 
and Mr B applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mrs M and Mr B would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Halifax at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs M and Mr B would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mrs M and Mr B would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs M and 
Mr Bs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
Ref: DRN60726698actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually  paid more  in the 
event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M and Mr B thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr B knew  about or should  have known about  or for which  he received advice, 
treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the start date 
and recurred within  24 months  of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs M and Mr B pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M and Mr B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs M and Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions. Mr Bs sciatica  had 
been treated and appears to have  been cured over two decades  before the policy  was 
bought and he was in permanent employment.  So, I still think  they had some good  reasons 
to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs M and 
Mr B might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mrs M and Mr B from taking out the policy, Mrs M and Mr B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mrs M and Mr B had known Mr B could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
Ref: DRN60726699would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mrs M 
and Mr Bs circumstances  on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking 
out the cover. I say that because although  Mrs M and Mr B have told us about their savings 
this policy  would have  paid out on top of any savings they had and would have enabled  
them to keep them in tact so that they would eventually be able to repay their mortgage as 
they had planned or if necessary use them for other necessary costs of living. Any death  in 
service benefit was not the same as PPI as it would be paid in the unfortunate event of death  
not on losing  a job or not being able to work.
Halifax may not have  told Mrs M and Mr B that any claim they made would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 12 months  was a longer period than Mr B would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs M and Mr B would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr B be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr Bs sick pay or redundancy money 
for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M and Mr B would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr B was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M and Mr B would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mrs M and Mr Bs representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M and Mr B would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs M and Mr 
Bs circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mrs M 
and Mr B found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN607266910Mrs M and Mr B believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M and Mr B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mrs M and Mr B compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M and Mr B think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs M and Mr B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs M and Mr Bs representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find Halifax negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs M and Mr B and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M and Mr B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 August 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6072669