K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Payment Protection Insurance  policy (PPI). In June 2003, Miss J 
took out a mortgage. At a later date Miss J took out PPI to protect her borrowing. Miss J 
says Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 27 December 2018, the findings are attached 
and forms part of my final decision.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Miss Js representative and the Business have 
confirmed that they have  received my provisional  decision. Neither  Miss J nor the Business 
have submitted any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding Miss Js case.
I assume that Miss J does not accept  my decision. But neither the Business nor Miss J has 
presented anything new for me to consider,  and I dont see any reason to go behind my 
findings in my provisional decision. So, Im not going  to uphold Miss Js complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above and in my provisional  decision, I do not uphold Miss Js complaint 
against Nationwide Buildings Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63194522copy  of provisional findings
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Js case.
Not all documentation or evidence  is available from this particular sale,  which is understandable 
considering how long ago it was. Neither  Nationwide  nor Miss J has been able to give us a copy  of 
the policy  document  due to the time thats passed. But Nationwide has been able to provide  a copy  of 
a policy from before and after the PPI was taken out. And I think it reasonable to use these  policies  
when coming to my decision. This service has also built up knowledge of the likely processes that 
Nationwide followed at the time. Ive considered this in my decision  making.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because, having carefully considered the evidence:
 Whilst I do not doubt what Miss J has told us is her honest and best recollection of what  took 
place, I do not think her account is sufficiently detailed or strong. It seems  most likely to me that 
Miss J may no longer  have a detailed recollection  of the sale in 2003.  This is understandable. 
This sale occurred around 15 years  ago.
 I cant know exactly what was discussed when Miss J took out the policy as the evidence is no 
longer available.  But Ive not seen anything that clearly shows  Nationwide didnt  make Miss J 
aware that she was taking the PPI or that it was optional. Whilst I acknowledge that Miss J may 
not have been given a fair choice, considering how long ago the sale was in this case,  I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point.  So having considered all 
the submissions  and evidence I have  received  in this case,  I think  its more likely that Nationwide 
wouldve made  Miss J aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it, even though 
she may not remember that now, many years  later. I also note that Miss J did not take out PPI at 
the time the mortgage was sold to her  the PPI being  added  between the mortgage offer and the 
mortgage completion  date i.e. sometime after Miss J had already  successfully applied for her 
credit card. So I think its likely she was given  a choice and opted  to take it knowing PPI wasnt  
compulsory and that it was a separate product. 
Nationwide probably didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss J, This means it didnt have to check if the 
PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Miss J to decide whether it was suitable. But 
even if it had made  a recommendation, I think  it would probably have been an appropriate one in 
her circumstances at the time. Not being able to pay a mortgage can cause significant difficulties, 
and the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to any employer benefits, and possibly for longer. So 
it would have  been  potentially useful. 
Its hard to know  how well Nationwide  explained  the cost of the policy.  But, in any event,  for the 
reasons contained in this decision I dont think full and clear  information  about  the costs would  
have affected whether  Miss J took the PPI.
Its possible  Nationwide also didnt  clearly  point out the main  things the policy didnt  cover. But 
based on what I know  for Miss Js circumstances at the time,  its unlikely Miss J would have been 
materially affected by any of these.
Ive also thought  about  everything Miss J has said. But these points dont change  my decision.  
Miss J was taking on a financial commitment secured on her home. The PPI was intended  to 
remove the additional pressure of paying the mortgage at what  might be a difficult time financially.  
I think it would have given  Miss J additional peace of mind in relation to an important financial 
commitment. 
Ref: DRN63194523Ive also thought  about  whether Nationwide  needs to give Miss J some of the commission she paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain  types of mortgage 
agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Miss Js mortgage became  a regulated mortgage 
before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Nationwide doesnt  need to refund any of the commission 
Miss J paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
I now invite  all parties to give me any further information they want me to consider before I make my 
final decision.  This must be provided  to us by 27 January 2019.
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6319452