K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about what happened  when Virgin Money  plc failed to get a new credit card 
to him, as arranged. 
background
Mr F said that hed arranged for Virgin to send him a new credit card. He said hed explained  
to Virgin  how important  it was that he get this new card before he went  on holiday.  Virgin  had 
told him that it could  get a new card to him in time.  But it had also said that this new card 
would need to be signed for. There was no one at Mr Fs home  address during the daytime 
to do that. So Mr F told us that Virgin had agreed to post the card to him at his work address.  
And it had agreed  to do this within the timescale hed set out. 
Mr F said that Virgin didnt do what it had promised. When he rang to find out why the card 
hadnt yet arrived,  he was told it hadnt even  been sent out.
Mr F said that because he didnt have a credit card with him on holiday,  he incurred extra 
costs. A prebooked hire car had to be cancelled,  and rebooked at a cost of just under £200. 
Mr F told us that he also had a lot of additional stress on the first day of his holiday.  Hed 
spent a considerable time arguing  with the car hire company  before the car could be 
rebooked. Because of all the time that had taken up, a drive in an unfamiliar area that hed 
planned to do in daylight had to be done  in the dark. 
Virgin said that it accepted that the service  it provided wasnt up to its usual high standards. 
It hadnt carried out its responsibilities to fast-track Mr Fs new card,  and had caused 
inconvenience and expense to Mr F when the card didnt arrive in time for his holiday. So it 
said that it had paid £200 into Mr Fs account  to make up for this.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that Virgin had paid Mr F back  the additional  
money hed had to pay because  he didnt  have the card,  as hed expected.  But it hadnt paid 
any compensation. She thought that Virgin should  pay Mr F £250  in compensation. 
Virgin didnt agree with that. It said that it didnt  think that there was any evidence that Mr F 
had to drive in the dark because of what had gone  wrong. It thought that there might  always 
have been a risk of that. And it said that it didnt  think that the problems with the car hire 
company wouldve caused such a significant  delay. 
Virgin said that it thought a compensation  payment  of £150 would be fair in these 
circumstances. Our adjudicator asked Mr T if he wanted to accept that, but he didnt. He sent 
us further details of the distress that had been  caused to him on his first day of holiday, and 
a considerable  amount of further evidence to support  what  he had said. 
Our adjudicator said that she still thought that Virgin should pay Mr F £250. But Virgin said 
that it still didnt  think  that it should be held responsible for this as a result  of the card delay. 
Virgin said that Mr F could still have been  forced to drive in the dark anyway, if his flight  was 
late or hed got lost in daylight  hours. It still said it would only pay £150.  
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN68485132I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Virgin accepted  it offered  to send Mr Fs card in time for him to receive  it before he went 
on holiday. And it accepted that it made a mistake, so the card didnt arrive in time. I 
thought this was always likely to lead to extra costs,  and some  upset, for Mr F. So I was 
glad to see Virgin had already paid Mr F the additional costs he incurred in cancelling  
and rebooking his hire car. And I thought it was right that Virgin should pay Mr F some 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience that he was put to. But I didnt agree 
that Virgin must pay more  than the £150 it offered. I said Id explain why I thought  that. 
-Mr Fs new credit card was due to arrive  on 4 September. Mr F told us that he found  out 
on 5 September  that his new card hadnt  even been  issued yet. So it wasnt going to 
arrive in time for his holiday, which started on 7 September. 
-Mr F also said that it was too late by 5 September to change  his hire car booking. I 
thought that it was probably too late then to avoid  paying  the additional costs  that Mr F 
ended up paying. So I was glad that Virgin  refunded those costs. 
-But I thought  that Mr F had a choice, on 5 September. He couldve contacted the car hire 
company, and explained the problems, before he went away.  Mr F knew that he needed 
a credit card in his name for the booking. And by 5 September, he knew that he wasnt  
going to have a card in his name. But it didnt appear as if Mr F notified the car hire firm 
about this until he got to the overseas airport. 
-I thought that, because Virgin  didnt  send Mr Fs card out on time, Mr F was always going 
to have to have a difficult  conversation with the car hire company about changing his 
booking. But I thought it was his choice  to have that conversation once he arrived 
overseas, and not before. For those  reasons, I thought that the consequences which 
flowed from this, of driving in the dark in an unfamiliar  area,  werent entirely Virgins  fault. 
So I thought that the compensation amount of £150 that Virgin offered to pay Mr F 
provided a fair and reasonable  outcome to this complaint. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides acknowledged receiving my provisional  decision, but neither  had anything  to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Ref: DRN68485133my final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money  plc must  pay Mr F £150 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6848513