K821x#15Complaint
Mrs A says J D Williams  & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about three catalogue shopping accounts J D Williams provided. Account A 
was opened in September 2015  and Mrs A was given an initial  credit  limit of £125. This limit 
was increased 12 times until it eventually  reached  £3,000.00 in February 2018. Account B 
was opened in November 2015  and Mrs A was initially given a credit limit of £125. This limit 
was increased 10 times until it eventually  reached  £2,750.00 in February 2018. Account C 
was opened in March 2016. Mrs A was initially given a credit limit of £125. This limit on this 
account was increased  8 times until it eventually reached £2,750.00 in April 2018.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs As complaint  and thought  no credit limit increases on 
any of Mrs As accounts should have been  provided  by September 2016.  J D Williams  didnt 
respond and the complaint was passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including  the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs A 
could afford  to repay what she was being  lent in a sustainable manner. These checks  could 
take into account a number  of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN64519322Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought it J D Williams unfairly  increased  the 
credit limits on Mrs As accounts  from September 2016 onwards.  As J D Williams  didnt 
respond, I dont know what  it thinks our adjudicator  got wrong.
Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history  with     
Mrs A, with a view to seeing  if there was a point  at which J D Williams  should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so J D Williams 
should have realised that it shouldnt have increased  Mrs As credit limits. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs As case, I also think  that this point was reached  in 
September 2016. I say this because by this point J D Williams ought to have to have realised 
that a pattern of missed  payments and the maximum  amount of credit being  utilised  almost  
immediately after having been offered had now become established.  Equally there was also 
now the prospect  of Mrs A owing £2,250.00 across her accounts. 
J D Williams credit  searches showed  that shed recently defaulted  on another  account  
elsewhere and its records  also suggest  it believed she had a monthly  income of £1,000.00.  
Bearing in mind all of this Im struggling to see how and why J D Williams  could reasonably 
conclude Mrs A was able to take on more credit. So overall J D Williams ought to have  
realised Mrs A may well have struggled to sustainably repay what  she owed and that there 
was a significant risk increasing her credit  limit in these circumstances would lead to her 
indebtedness increasing unsustainably.  
I think that Mrs A lost out because J D Williams continued to increasing  Mrs As credit  limits  
from September 2016 onwards. In my view J D Williams actions unfairly  prolonged Mrs As 
indebtedness by allowing  her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended  period of 
time and the interest being added  got her into further debt. So J D Williams should put things  
right.
Putting things  right  what  J D Williams needs to do
rework Mrs As accounts to ensure that from September 2016 onwards interest is 
only charged on the first £750.00  outstanding on each account to reflect  the fact that 
no further credit limit increases should have  been provided. All late payment and over 
limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding  balance remains on any of the accounts once these adjustments  
have been made J D Williams should  contact Mrs A to arrange suitable repayment  
plans. If J D Williams considers it appropriate  to record negative  information on             
Mrs As credit  file, it should backdate this to September 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs A, along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then J D Williams should remove  any 
adverse information  from Mrs As credit file.
Ref: DRN64519323HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D 
Williams must give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
 
If J D Williams sold the outstanding balances on any of these accounts to a third party debt 
purchaser, it either needs to buy the accounts back from the third party  and make the 
necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make  the necessary 
adjustments; or pay Mrs A an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out, Im partially  upholding Mrs As complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6451932