K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Erudio Student  Loans Limited  (ESLL)  ended  her loan agreement 
because she fell into arrears. Miss C considers the lender treated her unfairly.
background
Miss C had a student loan with ESLL, which shes deferred for a number of years.  She 
wanted to defer the loan again in 2017, but suffered a bereavement around the time that the 
paperwork had to be completed,  and the deferral didnt take place. 
Miss C didnt hear anything else from ESLL  until August 2018, when it told her the deferment 
had ended and the account was in arrears. ESLL  also sent Miss C a Remedy  of Account 
pack in September  2018, enclosing statutory notices it had failed to send her about the 
arrears on her account.
Miss C contacted ESLL  in September 2018  and the lender told her what she needed to do to 
stop the account from terminating. Miss C didnt  meet ESLLs requirements within the 
necessary timeframe,  and her account defaulted. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that 
Miss C had been through a distressing time, and that it wouldve been difficult for her to 
focus on her financial  matters.
But the investigator considered ESLL had contacted Miss C on several occasions before her 
account defaulted. And there had been  more than a year between ESLL asking Miss C to 
bring her account up to date, and the termination of the account. The investigator accepted 
there had been  a gap in ESLLs correspondence  with Miss C, but he didnt consider this had 
been a disadvantage to her.
Miss C had also complained that ESLL prevented her from making a complaint  about her 
account. But the investigator didnt  consider a complaint by Miss C wouldve prevented ESLL 
defaulting the account.
Overall, the investigator  didnt find that ESLL had acted unreasonably.
Miss C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions  so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I have every sympathy for the loss Miss C suffered in 2017,  and can understand why she 
might not have prioritised  her finances  while she was coming to terms with what had 
happened.
Ref: DRN62378612Miss C has told me she thought shed successfully deferred the loan in 2017, so she didnt 
pay particular attention to the letters she received  from ESLL during the summer of that year. 
The letters were to tell her that ESLL needed more information before it could process  her 
deferral application.  When the information didnt arrive, ESLL also wrote to Miss C in 
August 2017 to tell her that the deferment had ended and that the account was in arrears.
ESLL has admitted that a breakdown in its own processes meant it didnt send Miss C some  
of the statutory notices it shouldve done  about the arrears on her account. This meant 
Miss C didnt find out about the status  of her account until September 2018. I can 
understand why she might consider  that if ESLL had sent her the notices  as it shouldve 
done, she couldve taken  action to protect  the account sooner.
Im mindful, however, that once  Miss C became aware of the situation she contacted  ESLL 
on 21 September 2018. Ive listened  to the call between ESLL and Miss C. ESLL  told Miss C 
that she could  still defer  the account, but that this would  need to be done by 9 October  2018  
 which  was the default deadline.
Miss C was in the middle of preparing her tax return for the tax year 2017/18.  ESLL 
suggested she submitted  her return for 2016/17 with her deferral application immediately.  
This was because once  the application  was received it would go into a queue, and it would 
take around fourteen days for a decision to be made. A decision was required before 
9 October to avoid the account  defaulting.
As there were arrears on the account, ESLL said it couldnt look at these  until the deferment 
was set up. 
Miss C says she was left with the impression she would have to settle the arrears for the 
year that the deferment hadnt  been  in place. She says this is why she didnt contact ESLL 
again until after 9 October, because she wasnt in a position to pay the arrears. Miss C says 
ESLL didnt give her any guidance about how to dispute its processes.
Ive noted everything  Miss C has said. ESLL told Miss C it would need to discuss  the 
remaining arrears once  the account  had been  deferred. It said it couldnt look at an age-
related write-off on the account until the arrears were cleared. But Im not persuaded that 
ESLL told Miss C she would have to clear  all the arrears in order for the loan to be deferred.
Miss C didnt complete  ESLLs requirements for deferring the loan in time.  So I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for the business to take the default action it did in connection with her 
account.
Miss C considers ESLL  shouldve given her better guidance on how to challenge the way in 
which it was treating her account. But even if Miss C had made  a successful complaint about 
ESLLs handling  of her account,  I havent been able to safely  conclude that this this wouldve 
stopped the account  from defaulting.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing to Miss C, but I hope that my explanation will 
help her to understand why Ive reached  the conclusions that I have.
Ref: DRN62378613my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6237861