K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited unfairly held him responsible  for causing  
an accident under his motor policy.
background
Mr B was involved  in an accident  with another  driver  on 13 February 2018. He believed the 
other driver was to blame for it. The other driver  made a claim on Mr Bs policy and Ageas 
decided on the evidence that it was more likely Mr B would  be held liable for causing it. This 
was on the basis  of a witness  statement. So it paid the other  drivers claim.  This means that 
Mr B now has a fault record on his insurance  record. 
However, Mr B said there was no witness present at the time of the accident. So he 
complained. Ageas didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr B disagreed and brought his 
complaint to us.
The investigator also thought Ageas hadnt  done  anything wrong. Mr B remained dissatisfied  
and so his complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 July 2020. I said the following:
As the investigator  explained, its not my role or the role of this service to decide  who 
was responsible for causing an accident, as thats  the role of the courts. Our role is 
merely to see if Ageas came to its decision reasonably  and in line with the policys 
terms and conditions and I dont think it did here.
First, Mr B was adamant at the time and remains adamant that there was no witness  
to this accident. He said no one else stopped at the time and there  was only 
discussion between himself and the other driver.
Secondly, this witness refused to allow Ageas talk to him. On that basis,  its then 
highly unlikely to me that this witness would have never  consented to go to court and 
give his evidence there. Consequently, I dont consider it was reasonable that Ageas 
relied on the contents of this witness statement to the extent  it did. The fact the 
witness wouldnt talk to Ageas casts  doubt on this witness credibility and integrity. 
Consequently and conversely that adds the integrity of the evidence  of Mr B as to 
how the accident occurred and whose  fault it was. 
I consider Ageas was wrong to conclude that as the witness refused to communicate 
with it, it had no choice  but to accept this witness evidence. Thats  not right in my 
view and Ageas hasnt shown that it was adequately or reasonably protecting Mr Bs 
interest, which it is obliged to do under the policy terms. 
Ageas decided the damage to the other drivers  car was reasonable bearing in mind 
the stated circumstances of the accident. But Mr Bs car was also damaged. And 
whilst Mr B initially was holding  back on the decision to make  a claim for this damage 
to his car, Ageas never examined Mr Bs car to see if the damage on his car showed 
that the damage to the other drivers car was from this accident. I dont consider that 
reasonable or fair either.
Ref: DRN63648642As to the other drivers  personal injury  claim,  it was substantiated  by independent  
medical evidence  and its well known that such injuries claim often take time to 
present. 
Whilst under  the terms of the policy Ageas has the right to defend or settle any claim, 
it must  do this reasonably  and I dont consider Ageas did here. It talks of being  
obliged to avoid  litigation in its letters to Mr B but that obligation must be measured 
against protecting its policyholders interests. Had Ageas pushed back  when  this 
independent witness  refused to communicate with it, the other drivers insurers  may 
well have changed tactics  in the presentation of its claim against Mr B. This coupled 
with the late presentation of the other  drivers claim on Mr Bs policy  does raise  
serious veracity issues with this other drivers claim which I dont see Ageas explored 
in any effort  to protect Mr Bs interests.
So I dont  consider Ageas handling  of this claim against Mr B was reasonable. I note 
Mr Bs No Claims  Discount was protected but he still has to declare a fault accident 
each time he renews his policy  for several years.
Therefore, I consider  Ageas  should  now remove the fault marker from all internal and 
external databases  and write a letter to Mr B confirming this. Mr B can then show this 
letter to his subsequent insurers who should be able to re-rate any premium  he has 
paid and provide him with a refund. Should those insurers  be unable to pay Mr B any 
refund, I expect Ageas to step in and do so instead.  
I also consider Ageass  handling of Mr Bs claim caused him trouble and upset and I 
think it should pay Mr B the sum of £150  compensation for this. 
There was no requirement  for Mr B to detail the amount of the other  drivers  claim to 
his subsequent insurers, as that isnt information that insurers  require. So I dont 
consider Ageas failure to breakdown the settlement had any impact on Mr B.
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly  that it was him chasing Ageas for information.  Having 
looked at its file, theres no evidence of a significant  failure to keep Mr B informed.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. However,  Ageas didnt  accept it. 
It maintained that even  if this witness had not shown up in court it still would have been one 
partys word  against the other and the likely result would have been  a 50/50 split on liability. 
It said that as Mr B said his car was damaged, then it stands to reasons the other drivers car 
was also damaged. It said its engineer looked at the photos of the damage  to both cars and 
believed the damage was consistent so had no need to examine  either car. Whilst it 
acknowledged the other driver presented his claim eight months  after the accident, it didnt 
put any weight  on that, given the limitation  time limit of three years for personal  injury and six 
years for presenting a damage  only claim.  It also required my guidance if I was minded to 
uphold this complaint as to how it might refund any extra premium Mr B was charged in 
relation to this fault claim from any other insurer. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63648643Any claim by the other driver against  Mr Bs policy is a claim in negligence. The limitation  
period for anyone  wanting to claim negligence  is only three  years. This includes any damage 
claim to a vehicle along  with any personal injury claim. Therefore, its not right of Ageas to 
say the other driver would  have had six years to bring his claim if he was only claiming 
damage to his vehicle.  I believe Ageas has got confused between Mr Bs right under his 
contract of insurance with Ageas  to claim on his own policy for vehicle damage,  which  would 
be six years  under contract  law and the other partys right to claim negligence and 
consequential loss and damage against Mr B, which remains only three years.
Its usual in motor  claims for the injured or aggrieved party to normally make a claim 
relatively quickly, I remain of the view that most  insurers  would consider a claim being 
presented after eight months  to be rather late, which is what Ageas said in its own file in any 
event. It was Ageas itself who stated this was a relatively late claim,  rather than me. 
I remain of the view that Ageas didnt take any advantage in exploiting  the fact that it couldnt  
verify the evidence of this independent witness,  since the witness  failed to respond  to its 
request to speak to them. What this witness said obviously bolstered up the other  drivers 
version of events and without it, the other driver  was more disadvantaged. But there was no 
push back from Ageas at this time and no negotiation in order to protect its own 
policyholders interests  and indeed its own. I consider that if a party to such a claim says 
initially he relying on an independent witness who then turns out to unwilling to discuss  the 
matter, its a significant weakening of their argument. But I saw nothing from Ageas at this 
time to try to take advantage of that for the benefit of its policyholder, Mr B. More especially 
since Mr B was very clear  he was of the view that the other driver was at fault. 
So its this lack of effort by Ageas at this time, which I dont think  is fair. We will never know  
what the outcome  would have been,  as Ageas  simply didnt argue Mr Bs case for him. And 
its for this reason  that I remain of the view, that Ageas should now remove  the fault claim 
from all internal and external databases and write a letter to Mr B confirming this.
This then means,  his other insurers should  be able to re-rate  the premium  hes paid and 
refund him. If for whatever reason, these other insurers  refuse  to refund Mr B on the various 
re-ratings then Ageas  should do so instead. I expect Mr Bs subsequent insurers to be able 
to provide the figures of any such re-ratings, thereby making it easy for Ageas  to refund the 
amounts if needed.  Its more than likely Mr Bs new insurers will refund him, I am merely 
providing that if its the case they dont, then Ageas  needs to do so on the figures  such  
subsequent insurers  provide. 
And I remain of the view this has caused  Mr B some  trouble and upset for which  Ageas 
should pay Mr B £150 compensation. 
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Ageas Insurance Limited  to do the following:
Remove this fault claim from all internal and external databases.
Write  Mr B a letter confirming this was done  and that it was an error on its part, which 
he can show to his subsequent insurers so they can calculate  and refund of premium  
for Mr B.
Ref: DRN63648644Should those subsequent  insurers be unable  to pay Mr B any refund for any reason, I 
require Ageas to step in and do instead in their place.
Pay Mr B the sum of £150 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused him 
in dealing with this claim from the other  driver.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6364864