K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complained to Killik & Co LLP about being  negligently advised to invest in high risk, 
newly established overseas companies.  He said the investments  were  unsuitable  for his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) and he incurred substantial losses.
Background
In June 2009, Mr G became a client of Killiks advisory investment services.  The investment 
service he arranged was the advised dealing service. The terms and conditions said:
Through the Advised Dealing Service, we will provide you with advice on individual  
transactions. Subject to the information that you provide being comprehensive and 
accurate, we will provide  advice that is suitable for you at the time that the advice is 
given, but we will not undertake to ensure that any advice we have given remains  
suitable for your after that time.
There can only be one manager of your investments and, under the terms of the 
Advised Dealing Service we are not the manager of your investments, you are the 
manager of your investments.
The initial account  opening was a general dealing and ISA account for Mr and Mrs G. The 
account was managed  on a maximum low and medium  risk basis. 
In January 2010, Mr G confirmed his risk rating as unrestricted, which  was described as:
 Unrestricted  Risk - the range of securities  on which we can advise  you will be 
unrestricted and drawn  from across  the United Kingdom and international markets. 
These may include investments regarded as lower,  medium  and higher risk, including 
direct equity investment  and collective investment vehicles which predominantly  hold 
securities other than investment grade bonds  and money market  instruments. This 
category is only appropriate  if you accept that there may be significant fluctuations in 
the capital value of your investments over both the shorter  and medium  terms in 
order to allow you the opportunity to seek higher returns.
In August  2010,  Mr G signed a client record. It confirmed his investment objectives  as:
Taking unrestricted risk
Having a long term investment  horizon  with no foreseeable call on capital
To achieve mainly  growth
His circumstances were  recorded. And he signed to say his financial knowledge and 
experience was: Very experienced  (i.e. more than five years as an active Advisory  or 
Execution Only Client)
In an email to Killik on 25 February  2011  Mr G explained that as he had a final salary  
pension he could take a fairly adventurous approach with his SIPP and would be grateful for 
their investment proposals.
An investment was made in March 2011  in Beacon Hill Resources. This was a coal 
exploration operation in Mozambique.
Ref: DRN64546272Mr G transferred funds from a personal pension. The money was invested in Beacon Hill and 
Baobab Resources. Baobab was an iron ore mine  in Mozambique.
In May 2011, Mr G was recommended  to increase his recently acquired shareholding by a 
further 11,610 shares in Baobab.
Mr G bought shares in Google in June 2011 and sold these  for a profit in July 2011.  He then 
discussed where the proceeds should be invested with Killiks adviser. A further 
recommendation was made to purchase  shares  in a firm called Tullow. Killiks adviser 
recommended Max Petroleum.
All of the investments  in Mr Gs SIPP lost all of their value.
Killik objected to us looking at the investments recommended in March  2011 as it thought 
Mr G had left it too late to complain about  them. One of my colleagues decided that we could 
not consider Mr Gs complaint about the first three investments.
Mr G sent us an email on 21 July 2018 outlining his case. He said:
In 2011 Killik directed all the funds in my SIPP (£26,388-11) into three investments that 
became a complete loss:
Beacon Hill Resources  - a coal exploration in Mozambique
Max Petroleum - oil and gas in Kazakhstan
Baobab Resources. - iron ore mine in Mozambique
Killik charged fees of £2,269-45  for their investment service (which  they have since  
refunded) but offered  no advice eg to reduce holdings, or other help, or action, during the 
course of the time that the three companies  took to fail.
My case  is that in terms of investment suitability Killiks advice was negligent as follows:
i. Putting all the money into just three investments  did not provide sufficient spread of 
risk
ii. all three  were in one sector, in developing countries,  in primary resources
iii. all three were individually  highly speculative
iv. none had paid a dividend or had any prospect of paying a dividend
V. all were  known to be risky in terms of risk management and structure - please see 
attachments 11, 12 & 13 to my letter of 5th January  2018.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Gs complaint and didnt recommend upholding it. He said,  Mr G 
had told Killik he could  be adventurous  with the SIPP investment which was a small element 
of his overall investment portfolios. His main source  of income was from a final salary 
pension. The SIPP was being managed  differently  from his main  investment account with 
Killik which was invested in blue chip FTSE 100 shares. The recommendations were made 
to invest in the firms after conducting some research. The agreement stated they wouldnt 
consider the ongoing suitability of the investments.
Mr G disagreed, he said his circumstances werent recorded  correctly,  he wasnt an 
experienced investor. Although he had worked  in finance, he wasnt  involved in managing 
cash or investments.  He reiterated the investments werent suitable for his circumstances.
Ref: DRN64546273The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his view. The complaint has therefore  been 
passed to me to review.
Mr G asked for a personal hearing.  I wrote to him and explained I did not require a hearing to 
resolve this dispute.  Mr G left recorded  messages setting  out his case.  I then issued my 
provisional decision.
I explained I was not considering the investments  made in March  2011 as my colleague had 
already decided the complaint about  those investments was not made  in time. I was only 
considering the complaint about  the investments made in May 2011 to buy shares in Baobab 
and July 2011 when Mr G bought shares  in Max Petroleum.
Killik have said the SIPP  account was being  managed separately from the ISA account.  It 
was a relatively small fund and I accepted  Mr G wanted unrestricted risk. He made it clear 
he could afford to take risk with this part of his investments.
I also explained Killik provided an advisory  dealing service. The terms and conditions 
referred to making  suitable recommendations, but they would not keep those under review. 
Killik was not therefore responsible for making recommendations to sell any investments. 
And they were not managing the portfolio within the SIPP. However,  when they gave advice 
to purchase an investment the advice had to be suitable.
Mr G was prepared to take an unrestricted  approach to investment and was prepared to be 
speculative. This gave Killik a wide discretion to recommend many different investments. I 
gave a great deal of thought to what suitable advice could be for Mr G who was prepared to 
accept those risks.
Mr G made  the point his SIPP account was invested in three shares in small companies that 
had not paid a dividend;  they were all in natural resources; and in emerging markets.  When 
the investment  in Baobab  was made  in May 2011  Mr G already owned  shares  in Baobab  
and Beacon Hill. Both of these investments were  in mining companies based in 
Mozambique.
The investment in Baobab followed an email exchange between  Mr G and the adviser at 
Killik. The adviser said there had been  some encouraging news issued  that day. He 
recommended taking the holding up to 20,000 shares. I note the price  of the initial  purchase  
had been £0.3354 and the second purchase £0.405. At that time there  was spare cash  held 
on the account which the adviser said could be used to pick up something at a good  
discount. I thought  this advice was within the range of being suitable  for Mr G who was 
prepared to be speculative with these funds.
Mr G then bought  and sold shares in Google before reinvesting the proceeds in Max 
Petroleum. This was a firm with oil and gas explorations based in Kazakhstan. Again this 
was in the natural resources sector in an emerging market.
The description of Mr Gs attitude to investment risk for the SIPP was unrestricted. Killik 
were able to recommend from a very wide range of investments. However, the terms and 
conditions said that each recommendation would be suitable. It is not easy to say exactly  
what suitable means. I accept Mr G was prepared to be speculative. 
Ref: DRN64546274In my view, when the shares in Max Petroleum were bought  in July 2011  Killik should  have 
taken account  of the existing shares Mr G already held. Mr Gs investments were in two 
companies involved in mining in Mozambique.  I think  this was a very high risk, but as I said 
within the range of what could be suitable. However,  the investment in Max Petroleum 
increased the risk in the same  sector  and in another emerging  market. These were all 
investments that were  exposed to total loss of capital. Whilst the description of Mr Gs 
attitude to risk was described as unrestricted,  I did not think this could be taken to mean 
unlimited. 
In conclusion, I said I thought the recommendation to buy Max Petroleum was not suitable 
for Mr G, as it exposed his SIPP to a very significant  risk of total loss. I would have expected  
to see some diversification of the risks.
Mr G accepted my provisional  decision.
Killik did not agree and made the following points:
Mr G signed Killiks  terms and conditions for an advisory dealing service. These were 
updated from time to time. They said they would  advise on individual  transactions, 
but would  not give advice on the overall construction  of the portfolio.
Mr Gs trading pattern  showed he was looking for short-term  profits. He had already 
sold Google at a profit. And he had stated he was prepared to take an adventurous 
approach. He had also expressed  an interest in the mining sector  and had invested 
in Baobab and Beacon Hill. Another  trade  exposed  Mr Gs risk to the sector, but he 
appeared willing to accept that risk.
Under their terms and conditions, they should  not have taken account of any other 
shares whether  with Killik or elsewhere.
They were confident the advice  met the requirements set out in the regulators 
handbook under  COBS 9. His investment objectives were  met for long-term growth  
with an adventurous  approach to risk. He was able to bear the financial risk. And he 
had the knowledge and experience  to understand the risks he was taking.
They cannot be held responsible for investment losses  in the same way they cannot 
share in the gains  made.
Their unrestricted  risk category was clearly defined. It included the statement:
This category is only appropriate if you accept that there may be significant 
fluctuations in the capital  value of your investments  over both the shorter and 
medium terms in order to allow you the opportunity to seek higher returns.
Mr G invested in Affero Mining  in December 2012. He made  a small profit  when he 
sold these in November  2013. They note Mr G has not complained about the 
suitability of that advice.
Killik provided a daily dealing note highlighting other investment choices.
It was clear Mr G treated the investments in his SIPP  account  differently from the 
investments in his ISA account.  He was prepared  to be speculative.
They did not agree  compensation should be paid,  but had some comments  about the 
method of redress. The method used to calculate compensation uses the total return 
index. However Mr G was investing for growth and the potential  for short term 
returns, he had no requirement for income and was not seeking investments for their 
dividend yield. Should compensation be due, the FTSE Small Cap Return Index is a 
better reflection  of his trading strategy  at the time.
The profit from trading  in Affero  Mining should  be taken into account as well as 
Killiks payment of compensation to refund their charges.
Ref: DRN64546275My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
the advice to buy shares in Max Petroleum was unsuitable for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision.
Killik made a number of points in response to my provisional decision. They say they acted 
in line with the service  they provided.  Killiks terms and conditions  said:
2.1.2 Advised Dealing  Service  
Through the Advised Dealing Service, we will provide you with advice on individual 
transactions. When you open  an Advised  Dealing account you will be asked to select  
one of our investment objectives  Income, Balanced, Growth or Aggressive  Growth  
 which  are defined  in section 2.2.3. Where  you have selected  an investment 
objective, we will advise  you on individual transactions  that may be suitable towards 
meeting that objective, but we will not give advice on the overall construction of your 
portfolio. If you require such advice, please refer to the Advised Portfolio Service 
below. Subject to the information  that you provide being comprehensive and 
accurate, we will provide  advice that is suitable for you at the time that the advice is 
given, but we will not undertake to ensure that any advice we have given remains  
suitable for you after that time. There can only be one manager  of your investments 
and, under the terms of the Advised Dealing Service we are not the manager of your 
investments, you are the manager of your investments.
I accept Killik were  not providing a portfolio management service.  But, I think  the important 
part of their terms and conditions for this complaint is:
Subject to the information  that you provide being comprehensive and accurate, we will 
provide advice that is suitable for you at the time that the advice is given.
Killik knew Mr G was prepared to take a speculative approach  for his investments in the 
SIPP. He did have  other assets and could afford to lose those benefits. However, he was 
looking for investment  growth. Killik described his approach to investment risk as 
unrestricted. This meant they were  not limited in the range  of investments they could 
recommend. But, in my view, that does not mean the investment risk was unlimited. 
It has long been  accepted  that diversification  is a method used to reduce risk. Mr G had a 
relatively small fund in his SIPP. The existing shares held in his SIPP  were  in mining stocks 
in Mozambique.  He was already taking a speculative risk with the funds. I do not see how 
Killik could provide suitable advice without considering those shares.  I remain of the view the 
advice to invest in Max Petroleum increased  the level of risk. After the purchase of those 
shares all of Mr Gs SIPP  was investing in natural resources in emerging markets in 
companies with a limited  track record.
The investment in Affero Mining was a separate investment. It does not affect my conclusion 
about Mr Gs complaint. Any profits from the sale of those  shares  should  not be included in 
the calculation  of compensation.
Ref: DRN64546276I have carefully considered whether  the offer already accepted  by Mr G should  be taken into 
account. The offer was made as a gesture of goodwill. It is not clear  to me on what basis the 
offer was made. Although  I accept it was likely to be as Mr G was still a client of Killik and 
they wanted to make  a gesture to him of their goodwill.  However, my award is for the losses 
Mr G suffered as a result of Killiks unsuitable advice to invest in Max Petroleum. I do not 
consider the gesture of goodwill made to Mr G should be used to offset the loss suffered by 
Killiks advice, which  I have found  to be unsuitable.
I have also considered the appropriate  index to use to calculate compensation. Mr G wanted 
long term growth. Although he was prepared to buy and sell shares, any dividends paid 
affect the share price. I think the FTSE Small  Cap Total Return Index is an appropriate 
measure of Mr Gs loss.
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr G as closely as possible into the position  he would probably now be in if 
he had been given suitable advice.  
I think Mr G would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what  he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Gs 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Killik  do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Killik must:
Compare the performance of Mr Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Killik should  pay into Mr Gs pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should  allow  for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  should  not be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Killik is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Gs pension  plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement.  Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement. The reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, Mr G 
would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum;  the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr G £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused by the loss to his pension  
fund.
Ref: DRN64546277Killik should add interest  as set out below.  Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If Killik deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr G how much  has been  taken  
off. Killik should give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Max 
Petroleumhas no 
valueFTSE Small 
Cap Total 
Return Index26 July 2011date of my 
decision8% simple a 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement 
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital  growth and was willing  to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE Small Cap total return index is made up of a range of higher risk asset  
classes. I think its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take a high level 
risk to get a higher return. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional  decision is that Killik & Co LLP should  pay the amount 
calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6454627