K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) lent irresponsibly to him. 
background
Mr Lender lent Mr R five loans  between March 2017  and January 2019.  Mr Rs borrowing 
history is as follows: 
Loan 
numberDate 
taken  outDate 
repaidPlanned 
number  of 
instalmentsPrincipalHighest  
repayment
1 16/03/2017 17/08/2017 6 £200.00 £75.84
2 17/08/2017 22/03/2018 6 £230.00 £91.69
3 28/03/2018 12/10/2018 6 £230.00 £93.53
4 12/10/2018 02/01/2019 6 £230.00 £89.85
5 26/01/2019  6 £200.00 £87.73
It appears there is still an outstanding balance in respect of loan 5. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld in respect of loans 4 and 5. Mr 
Lender disagreed.  It said that when it checked Mr Rs credit file, it did not show any other 
outstanding short term loans. It also said the highest  repayment for loan 4 represented 
around 6% of Mr Rs income  and that even after making his repayments  for loan 4, he would 
still have had a disposable income  of more than £100. 
Mr Lender did agree  that loan 5 should  be upheld and it offered to settle the complaint  on 
that basis. Mr R didnt  accept Mr Lenders  offer. He thought our adjudicator was right to say 
that loans 4 and 5 should be upheld. As the parties are not in agreement  with our 
adjudicator, the matter  has been  passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN64203562the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.  Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern 
of the lending history  with a view to seeing  if there was a point at which Mr Lender should  
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If that 
point was reached, Mr Lender should have  realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, when deciding  whether to provide Mr R 
with a loan, it is proportionate for a lender to rely upon the information a borrower  has 
provided. It must also consider any additional  evidence it has gathered. 
So, for loans 1 and 2, Mr R declared his income to be £1,600 per month. For loan 3, he said 
it was £1,450. Mr Lender undertook a simple  credit check at that stage, which  showed  he 
was not insolvent and none of his accounts  were in default. At that stage, I think those 
checks were proportionate. And based upon the information Mr Lender had at that time, I 
think it would  have  reasonably appeared that Mr R could sustainably  repay  his loans. 
However, by loan 4, I agree with our adjudicator in that Mr Lender  should have done more. 
Looking at the way Mr R managed his accounts;  a pattern had emerged by this point. Mr R 
took out loan 2 on the same day as he repaid  loan 1. Loan 3 was taken out a matter of days  
after loan 2 had been repaid. And loan 4 was applied for on the same  day that loan 3 was 
paid in full. 
So by loan 4, Mr Lender should  have  realised that Mr R was not sustainably repaying his 
loans. It ought  to have realised that it was most likely that Mr R was borrowing further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan had left in his finances. He was borrowing more or 
less the same amount each month. And by loan 4, Mr Lender should  have  known that he 
Ref: DRN64203563was not likely borrowing  to meet a temporary  shortfall in his income,  but to meet  an ongoing  
need. 
Mr R wasnt really making any real inroads in to the amount he owed. Loan 5 was taken out 
almost two years after loan 1 and was for the same amount.  Mr R had paid large amounts of 
interest to effectively service a debt to Mr Lender  over an extended  period. 
I think that Mr R lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing  from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which he borrowed was likely to have 
had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 and 5. Mr Lender will need to take action to put 
things right. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Mr Lender shouldnt have  given Mr R loans 4 and 5. 
As I said above, there appears to be an outstanding  balance on loan 5. If Mr Lender has sold 
this outstanding debt, it must buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the steps set out 
below. If it is not able to buy the debt back,  it must  liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below:
a)Mr Lender  must add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  it has already  refunded; 
b)Mr Lender  must calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr 
R which were  considered as part of paragraph  (a). This must be calculated  from the 
date Mr R originally made the payments to the date the complaint is settled;
c)Mr Lender  must remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr R as though  they 
had been repayments  of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr R 
having made overpayments,  those overpayments must be refunded  with 8% simple 
interest* calculated and paid from the date overpayments would have arisen to the 
date the complaint is settled. It must then refund the amounts calculated  in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) and move to paragraph (e);
d)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in (a) and (b) can 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan and any principal 
that has already  been written off. If that results in a surplus, then the surplus must be 
paid to Mr R. However, if there  is still an outstanding balance, Mr Lender should 
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr R. It must  not pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal it has already written off;  
e)The overall pattern  of Mr Rs borrowing for loans 4 and means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse. Mr Lender must remove  those loans  entirely from 
his credit file. It does not have  to remove loan 5 until it has been repaid. But it must 
still remove any adverse information  recorded  about these loans. 
Ref: DRN64203564*HM Revenue and Customs requires Mr Lender  to deduct tax from this interest.  It must  give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax has been  deducted  if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Rs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6420356