K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains about a payment Barclays Bank  UK PLC made to an overseas  account that 
went missing.
background
Mrs J has an account with Barclays as well as an overseas account  to which  she regularly 
sends money.
Mrs J went into a branch of Barclays to make  a payment to her overseas account. She 
subsequently complained  to Barclays saying that the money hadnt arrived.
Barclays investigated Mrs Js complaint and said that the money hadnt arrived  because  the 
details for the receiving  bank were wrong.  Barclays said that their member of staff had asked 
Mrs J to check the details  were correct before the payment was sent, so it hadnt done  
anything wrong. Barclays  nevertheless  offered  to pay Mrs J £75 in compensation for the 
distress shed been caused, as well as crediting her account with an amount equivalent to 
the payment shed  tried to make  and saying that she could keep the missing  payment if she 
managed to recover it. Barclays said it did so as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs J was unhappy  
with Barclays response saying that the payment was for an overseas project  she was 
involved in, and that the delay had cost her over £1,000. So she complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Js complaint and said that they didnt think 
Barclays had done anything wrong as they hadnt made an error  when  transferring  the 
money. Our investigator also thought that Barclays had put Mrs J into the position shed 
been in before the payment had gone  missing and had compensated her for the distress and 
inconvenience, shed  suffered. So they didnt think that Barclays  needed to do more. Mrs J 
didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J has told us that the money that went missing was returned to her two months after it 
went missing.  Barclays  has allowed her to keep that money, on top of the refund it gave her 
and the compensation it offered. Its clear from what Mrs J has sent us that this was an 
important transfer   shes clearly passionate  about the project  shes  involved in and the 
payment going  missing  delayed work.  I can also see that Mrs J feels shes  lost out 
financially. But it wouldnt  be fair to require Barclays to compensate Mrs J unless it did 
something wrong. So thats what Im going to decide  next.
Im satisfied that Barclays asked Mrs J to check the details shed given before the transfer  
went ahead. Im also satisfied that Mrs J confirmed that they were. Unfortunately, that wasnt  
the case  the details  Mrs J gave for the receiving bank were  incorrect. The money went  
missing because the details were wrong. In the circumstances, I cant  say that the money 
went missing because of something  Barclays did wrong. So it wouldnt be fair to require 
Barclays to compensate Mrs J for the impact of the money going missing.  I do, however,  
think Barclays could have  got to the bottom  of what had gone wrong quicker when Mrs J 
asked what had happened to the payment.  The fact that it didnt, and the fact that Mrs J had 
to chase Barclays for answers,  added to Mrs Js stress and caused her additional 
Ref: DRN67232142inconvenience. So I do think its fair to ask Barclays to compensate  Mrs J for the impact this 
had on her.
Barclays has offered Mrs J £75 in compensation as well as crediting her account  with the 
amount she tried to send  and allowing her to keep  the payment  that went missing once it 
had been refunded. Barclays  offer is, in my opinion, a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint given the impact on Mrs J. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to pay 
more compensation  than its already  offered. 
my final decision
I am aware  that Barclays  Bank UK PLC has made an offer to pay £75. I conclude  that such  
an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC should  pay Mrs J £75 if it already hasnt done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Sejal Karia
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6723214