K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy and the quality of repairs it carried out. He wants it to rectify its 
mistakes and compensate  him for his time, being without a car, and his trouble and upset.
background 
Mr Ss car was damaged in an accident and taken for repairs by Advantage. When the car 
was returned,  Mr S said there were gaps around the bonnet  and damage  to the passenger  
side front wing. The garage didnt contact  Mr S as Advantage  had requested. So it paid Mr S 
£50 for his trouble and upset. An engineers report found that the damage was unrelated to 
the accident. It thought the bonnet alignment was caused by a previous incident. 
There were further delays and Advantage paid Mr S £100 further compensation. Mr S 
complained about the garage and Advantage paid him £75 further  compensation. A second 
engineers report  found that further damage was caused by a further accident. Advantage 
said Mr S could lodge a further claim for this. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. Mr S provided 
video evidence that the damage to the passenger side front wing wasnt  present when the 
car was first in the garage. The adjudicator thought the damage  had likely been caused 
whilst the car was in for repairs. He thought the garage  should  have seen this. He thought 
Advantage should repair this and pay Mr S £150  further compensation. But he thought the 
engineers evidence showed  that the damage to the bonnet was pre-existing. So he thought 
Advantage neednt rectify this.
Advantage accepted the adjudicators view. Mr S replied that he thought the garage should 
have told him about the pre-existing damage. He said that the gaps between  his cars 
bumper and bonnet were  larger after the repairs had been made. He wanted  further  
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by Advantage.  He asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S had a poor experience with his repairs  and I can understand that he 
wants his car repaired  correctly. Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle  would  be caused  as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints  is to determine 
whether an insurance  company has considered all the available evidence  and whether it can 
justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
I can see that Advantage has agreed  that the damage to the passenger side front wing was 
most likely caused whilst the car was in for repairs and that the garage  should have noted 
this earlier. It agreed to repair this and to pay Mr S £150 further compensation for his trouble  
and upset. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar  circumstances.
Ref: DRN60380862But Mr S says that his main complaint is about  the increased gap between  his bumper and 
bonnet following the repairs. From what I can see, the bumper was replaced by Advantages 
approved garage. But Mr S says that he wasnt told about pre-existing damage  that could 
affect how well it could  be fitted.  I think he means that he, or Advantage, should have been 
advised of this so that a decision could be made on further repairs  or, indeed, no repairs at 
all. 
Whilst I agree that this would have been good  service. I cant  see that its a requirement of 
Mr Ss policy. Also,  I dont  think its been  shown that replacing the bumper caused any 
increased gaps  between it and the bonnet.  But I can see that Mr S disagrees. 
When there is a dispute about damage  to a vehicle, we expect the insurer  to instruct an 
independent engineer to try and resolve matters. Advantage did this in regard to Mr Ss 
repairs and he produced two reports.  His inspection was visual and he didnt dismantle the 
car. The first report said that the car had been  a previous write off and the problems reported 
by Mr S about gaps  between the bonnet and bumper were due to previous  poorly  carried out 
repairs. 
Mr S didnt disagree that the car had been  previously  repaired, before he owned  it. But he 
thought the damage had been  made  worse by the recent accident as it was to the front of 
the car. The engineers second  report says that the front panel  bumper  locating  lugs may 
have been damaged in this incident. But I dont  think this was conclusive.  He recommended 
that the car be dismantled and further inspected by the garage to investigate  this. 
Advantages in house engineers discussed  the issue  with the independent engineer  and the 
garage. Their  view was that the car had been involved in a further incident since the claim 
that had caused additional  damage. Mr S provided us with a detailed  response to the 
adjudicators view. Ive read this closely and I cant see that he denied  that there had been a 
further incident that damaged his bumper. He says that he isnt asking Advantage to respray  
or replace his bumper. 
I think Advantage reasonably considered the engineering evidence from the independent  
engineer, its own engineers and the garage. It examined the photographs that Mr S 
highlighted. It thought  the pre-existing damage or a further incident could have caused any 
increased gaps. I dont think the fact that it didnt  pick up on the damage  to the passenger  
side front wing earlier  is a reason to dismiss this conclusion as the quality of the images had 
led to doubt. I cant  see that there was any further expert evidence that it should have 
considered. So I think Advantage  has justified its decision not to pay for any additional 
repairs to Mr Ss car. 
Mr S said Advantages  payment of compensation was for delays in the claim caused by the 
garage and for the way the garage  drove his car. The garage acted as Advantages agent so 
I dont think Advantage  needs to compensate Mr S further for the time its taken to resolve 
this matter.
Mr S wanted  additional compensation for his not being able to use his car and having to pay 
his excess. But I can see that loss of use and the policy excess  are exclusions in Mr Ss 
policys terms and conditions. So I dont think  Advantage needs to pay him any further  
compensation. 
Ref: DRN60380863my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to do the following as its already agreed to do:
1.Repair the damage to the passenger side front wing of Mr Ss car.
2.Pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by not 
identifying this damage earlier. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6038086