K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about information he received from Aviva  Life and Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) (previously Friends Life Limited) in relation to his personal pension  plans.  He also 
complains about  the administration  of those plans and in particular the way his final bonus 
was calculated. Mr W complains about the charges applied to his plans and the bonus rates  
he received.
background.
Mr W took out two personal  pension  plans in 1989.  They were transferred from his 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS). His retirement date was initially  set at a date in 
November 2007.  Mr W contacted the business to defer his retirement date. The business 
then reset the retirement date to November 2016.  Mr W took the benefits from his plans in 
2017.
Mr W complained  to the business about  the final bonus he received on both plans. He said 
this should have been calculated as at 2017 when he transferred his pension benefits  and 
closed his plans.  He also complained about the bonus rate as he said the final bonus had 
fallen by about 17 percent between 2015 and 2016 despite the FTSE 100 index going up 
over the same period.
Mr W also complained about  the allocation of units in relation to the second smaller  personal 
pension plan as only 95 percent of his premium was invested.  
Mr W wanted to know  whether he had been given a share allocation  in 2001 when the 
company demutualised.
The business didnt  uphold his complaint. It said it hadnt given Mr W advice to transfer  to 
the personal pension plans. Any advice  had been given by a third party  (an Independent  
Financial Adviser). It said the allocation for the second plan had been 95 percent which  
meant some of the premium paid by Mr W had been taken in initial charges rather  than 
being invested. It noted the amount of the premium allocated was often related to the size of 
the premium paid.
The business said it didnt  know  about the share  allocation and suggested Mr W contact 
another company.
The business said an initial retirement date of November 2007  had been  selected for 
Mr Ws plans.  It said Mr W had then wanted to defer his retirement date. Because Mr W 
hadnt given the business another  date it had applied a default retirement age of 74. It had 
written to Mr W and informed him of the new retirement date. So, his final bonus had been 
calculated using the 2016 retirement date rather than the date he closed his plans in 2017.
The business apologised to Mr W for giving him incorrect information about  the final bonus in 
its initial response to his complaint. It confirmed no final bonus  had been added to his plans 
in 2007 because the bonus rate at that time was 0 percent. The business  offered 
Mr W £100 compensation for any trouble  and upset caused by its initial  explanation.
There was an exchange of correspondence between Mr W and the business about  how the 
final bonus had been applied to his plans.
Ref: DRN69150532Mr W disagreed  with the business and referred his complaint to our service. He complained  
the business had applied  a retirement  age of 74 which he hadnt selected.   Mr W said the 
bonus rate should be calculated up to the time when  he actually took his benefits. He 
referred to the information provided  about  with-profits funds and how they operated. Mr W 
said this supported his point  that the final bonus should have been calculated  using the 2017  
date when he left the fund. He also referred to documentation  which  said 100 percent  of his 
investment was invested in the with-profits fund;  not 95 percent  as had happened with the 
second plan.
 
Mr W also complained about  the delay between  his application being approved and his 
money being invested. 
Mr W also noted he had been  told the bonus rate in the first year was 12 percent but he had 
only received about 6 percent.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said he thought a third party  (an 
Independent Financial Adviser) was responsible  for any advice  to transfer Mr Ws pension as 
it had written saying it was carrying out a pension  review.  This was a review  of the original 
advice to transfer the pension which was required by the regulator. 
He felt it was reasonably  clear from the documentation that some of the premium  paid for the 
second plan would not be invested but taken  in initial charges. 
The adjudicator didnt think the business  had acted unfairly in setting a default retirement 
age as it had written to Mr W to inform him. He was also not persuaded it was unfair or 
unreasonable to use this date for any final bonus that might be paid. 
He noted that the business  had made reference to a 3 year qualification  period  for a further 
final bonus (after  the retirement  date)  which Mr W had questioned as this was not referred to 
in the terms and conditions.
The adjudicator took into account  that there had been a number of changes in pension law 
since the plans  were taken out. He considered the terms and conditions of the pension  plans 
allowed the business to make changes  to its terms where there were changes  in legislation  
or practice.  
The adjudicator noted it was less than a year from the retirement date set on the plans to the 
date Mr W took his benefits. So he didnt think it was unreasonable  for the business to use 
the retirement date to calculate the final bonus.
Mr W disagreed  and asked for his complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman 
Mr W also pointed  out that he hadnt  received anything from the business showing him how 
it had calculated the bonuses on his plans.
The business provided some explanation as to how the final bonus was calculated which 
was passed on to Mr W. It also provided  the historical bonus rates for the plan and general  
information about the with-profits fund.  
Ref: DRN69150533Mr W then responded and made further  representations. He said the third party  had merely 
forwarded the pension policies as supplied by Aviva (Friends Provident as it was then). He 
reiterated he hadnt been informed about  the 95 percent allocation or other charges applied  
by the business in 1989.
Mr W also said the business  had not provided information about  its financial performance so 
it was impossible to understand how the final bonus  had been  arrived  at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 1989 Mr W took out two personal pension plans by way of a transfer  from his existing 
plans. The plans  were  administered by Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited  (formerly 
Friends Life Limited) but I am satisfied on balance that it didnt give Mr W any advice in 
relation to taking  out the plans. It appears the plans were sold by a third party. Ill explain 
why I think this.
The business says its records  indicate the plans were sold by an independent financial 
adviser (IFA). This is supported by the documentation from the third party  at the time and the 
fact this third party also contacted  the business in 1998 indicating  it was carrying  out a 
pension review. I agree with the adjudicator that it is likely  the third party agreed to carry out 
a review because  it was responsible for the initial recommendation  to transfer the 
occupational pension and for the investment of the proceeds of transfer into the personal 
pension plans.
I appreciate Mr W doesnt agree that the IFA gave him advice but he does say that it wrote 
to him and said 
Your money has initially been  invested  in Friends Providents With Profit Fund which  I 
recommend as the best investment route for most individuals.
 
That language does seem  to suggest  some degree of advice. But in any event the key 
question is whether Aviva gave him advice to take out these plans  or only administered  the 
plans. I note Mr W hasnt given any detail  of advice he received from Aviva.
Overall I am satisfied on balance that Aviva wasnt responsible for advising Mr W as to 
whether he should  take out the plans. As the IFA gave the advice it was its responsibility to 
explain how the charges that applied and how they operated. 
But as the provider of the plan Aviva did have to give Mr W information  about the personal 
pension plans that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ref: DRN69150534initial charges and allocation of units
Personal illustrations  and policy schedules were provided for the pension  plans. The second  
plan was the smaller  of the two. I am satisfied  the documentation provided by the business 
for the second  plan showed  that the premium  paid was more  than the investment premium  
(the amount  actually invested). 
This was set out in the policy schedule  which gave amounts for the premium and the 
investment premium. The investment premium was less. The significance of the investment 
premium was also explained in the terms and conditions. So I agree with the adjudicator that 
it was reasonably clear  that not all of the money  paid was being invested;  5 percent of the 
premium paid was deducted  as initial charges.
As Mr W has pointed  out the documentation stated that 100 percent of the premium was 
being invested in the with profits fund but that was 100 percent of the investment premium 
as opposed to the premium paid by Mr W. The 100 percent was referring to it all being 
invested in one fund as opposed to being split between different funds. 
I also note the terms and conditions set out the charges the business is allowed to deduct 
from the investment  including initial  unit charges and management charges. So I dont 
consider the business has acted outside the terms and conditions  in applying  charges to 
Mr Ws plans.
The business has also explained that the difference between the buying unit price  and 
selling unit price (bid/offer  spread) affected Mr Ws initial investment. This charge covers the 
cost of making the investment  in the fund and those different unit prices are set out in the 
terms and conditions. So, I am not persuaded that the business misled  Mr W as to the costs  
involved. But ultimately it was down to the IFA to explain the charges to Mr W. 
delay
Mr W has also complained about the delay between  his application  being  approved  at the 
end of August  1989 and it being  invested in the personal pension  plans. I understand there  
were a number of plans  from members  of the scheme being transferred at the same  time. So 
there would have been a certain amount of administration to complete. 
Aviva was sent a cheque  which covered  all the members whose benefits were  being 
transferred. That cheque was dated  31 August 1989. I think it likely it would have taken a 
few days for the cheque  to reach  Aviva, for it to clear and for the funds to be allocated  to 
each individuals  plan.  So I am not convinced that the delay  was unreasonable  in the 
circumstances. 
final bonus
When Mr W took out his personal pension plans they were set up with a retirement date of 
November 2007.  Mr W asked the business  to defer  his retirement  date but he didnt  select  a 
new date. So the business put a default  retirement age of 74 on his plan. 
It didnt just do this without any consultation- it wrote to Mr W to inform  him. I think it was 
open to Mr W to write back if he disagreed with that date.  So, I am not persuaded on 
balance that the business acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances or that it 
misled Mr W. 
Ref: DRN69150535The final bonus  rate in 2007 was 0 percent so unfortunately Mr W wasnt  paid any final 
bonus for that date. Mr W was paid a final bonus  calculated as at November 2016. He left 
the fund in September 2017.
The terms and conditions  say that the business might pay a final bonus. I note there is no 
guarantee of a final bonus. So I consider the business has some discretion as to whether it 
pays a final bonus.
The illustration says:  
In certain circumstances, for example upon  retirement at Selected Retirement Age or on 
earlier death, a 'final bonus'  may be payable depending upon the period of continuous 
investment in the With Profit Fund and upon  investment  and other conditions then applying.
I appreciate that the with-profits fund information  says that the final bonus is based  on the 
year you invested and the point at which you leave the fund. But I note this is general  
information about the with-profits funds  whereas  the illustration and the terms and conditions 
are specific  to the personal pension plan. The illustration refers to the selected  retirement  
age. It also says it should be read in conjunction  with the terms and conditions.
I also note the with-profits  fund information says you may not receive  a final bonus if you 
have already received your share of the returns through regular bonuses. In this case Mr W 
was paid the final bonus calculated in November 2016 which  was the selected  retirement  
age (albeit it was a default age set by the business). So I consider the business  had 
concluded that Mr W had received  his share  of the returns.
Aviva has explained  it takes into account a number of factors  when deciding  whether or not 
to award a final bonus- for instance  when the funds are taken out, the calculation date and 
how much  the with- profits fund has grown  by each  year.  These are matters  for its 
commercial judgement. So, provided  it has not treated Mr W differently than it would another 
plan holder in the same  situation,  these are not matters where it is appropriate  for me to 
interfere. 
Aviva could have paid Mr W a final bonus  for the period  from November 2016  to September  
2017. But it didnt  have too. Having  taken into account the factors it has outlined Aviva 
decided it wasnt appropriate  to do so. So I am not persuaded  on balance that Aviva has 
acted unreasonably or unfairly in the circumstances.
bonus rates
Mr W has also complained about the rate of bonuses.  The level of annual bonus  was 
guaranteed at a minimum of 4 percent. The illustration says:
Regular bonuses may be added  over the term of the Plan and are expressed in the form of 
increases to the unit price. The unit price increases daily at a rate equivalent to the 'bonus 
rate' then in force (currently 12% per annum). The 'bonus rate' will be reviewed at regular 
intervals and may be reduced or increased at any time depending upon  profits  earned.  The 
'bonus rate' is guaranteed not to fall below 4% per annum (the 'guaranteed rate').
Ref: DRN69150536Mr W has complained that he received only around  a 6 percent return  in the first year.  The 
business has explained that the difference in the price for buying and selling units affected 
the rate Mr W received.  So, I dont consider the business incorrectly applied the bonus in 
the first year.  I also note Mr W received  more  than the guaranteed rate.
I take into account what Mr W has said about  the bonuses and the performance  of the FTSE 
100 index over the same  period. The with-profits fund invests in a number of different funds 
so I dont think it is appropriate to use a direct  comparison with the FTSE 100 index. In 
addition with-profits funds  apply smoothing so some  of the returns  are held back in good  
years to be applied  in poorer performing years. This is to try and prevent the impact of short 
term market fluctuations. 
I appreciate that Mr W would like more detailed information as to how the final bonus has 
been calculated  but that is commercially  sensitive information so the business doesnt have 
to provide that level of detail to Mr W.
I understand that Mr W has concerns about the transparency of how bonuses have been 
applied to his policy. I appreciate the operation of a with-profits fund might appear to be 
unclear to a plan holder,  such  as Mr W. And it can be difficult  to understand how a fund 
value has been  calculated and if bonuses have been fairly applied.
 
With- profits providers such as Aviva do have quite a bit of discretion about how they run 
their with- profits fund. Having said that, Aviva cant operate in an arbitrary  manner and is 
accountable to the industry regulator as to it how it manages its with-profits  funds. Aviva 
does have to manage  its with-profits fund in line with rules and guidance set out by the 
regulator. Chapter  20 of the FCA's conduct  of business sourcebook (COBS) is about firms 
managing with-profit  funds.
Aviva publishes its Principles and Practices of Financial Management document that sets 
out how it manages its with-profits funds. 
Im not aware the regulator  has found any problems or raised  any concerns about how Aviva 
has managed its with-profits fund. So although I do understand  Mr Ws concerns, Ive not 
seen enough evidence to show that its done anything wrong in the way it has applied  
bonuses to Mr Ws plan
Overall, I m not persuaded on balance that the business  has applied the incorrect  bonus 
rates to Mr Ws plans.
Ref: DRN69150537I appreciate that Mr W is disappointed with the return he received on his personal pension  
plans but I dont think the business has acted incorrectly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances or that it has treated Mr W unfairly.  I dont consider the information it gave 
Mr W was unclear, unfair or misleading. 
I note Mr W has also recently queried whether the business added  the correct  amount for 
the final bonus to his plans. He refers to his benefit statement which  covered  the period to 
30 July 2016.  Mr W notes  it gives a lower figure than the figure provided by the business 
with its calculations. As the final bonus  was calculated as at November 2016 and Mr W has 
said this statement covers  the period to 30 July 2016 I am not persuaded  there is any 
indication that the final bonus  added to Mr Ws plans was incorrect. But I would suggest the 
business send  Mr W some  confirmation of the amount of final bonus added  to his plans to 
clarify this point.
I also note Aviva has offered what I consider to be fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by its initial incorrect explanation regarding the final bonus.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Aviva Life and Pensions UK 
Limited for the reasons  outlined in my decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6915053