K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain National Westminster Bank Plc havent  processed a chargeback 
request.
background
Mr and Mrs H came tous as they were  unhappy  with the response from NatWest when they 
asked them to claim back monies under the chargeback  scheme and later complained about 
the banks actions.
NatWest didnt uphold  their complaint, they said there had been no bank error and no 
chargeback right was available  in respect of the later bank transfer. NatWest told Mr and 
Mrs H if they raised a chargeback this was carried out direct wit the retailers bank and also 
in accordance with the relevant card scheme rules. But they said they had to follow the card 
schemes strict rules, regulations and timescales for any claim to be valid. NatWest told Mr 
and Mrs H generally a chargeback had to be raised within 120 days and although this may 
be extended it could  never exceed 540 days. But in Mr and Mrs Hs case NatWest  said more  
than 540 days had passed since the disputed debit card payment so they were  unable to 
raise a chargeback  claim as they had no line of enquiry under the chargeback  scheme. 
Our investigator was satisfied Mr and Mrs H were  out of time for a chargeback claim in 
respect of the debit  card payment. And that the larger payment by bank transfer wasnt 
covered under the chargeback scheme. So he couldnt say NatWest ha acted unfairly  by not 
claiming the funds  back for the two disputed tranasctions.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator.They told usthey  still believed  they should be 
entitled to their money back under  the present circumstances. MMr and Mrs H said, as long 
as they were aware, the Financial Ombudsman Service was here to overturn the banks' 
decisions, not to agree  with them and use the same arguments against customers who had 
found themselves  being victims of a horrible situation that went  completely wrong.  They felt 
as if their patience in allowing the company theyd  paid the money to resolve the problems 
was being used as an argument  against them and restricting their legal protections. The 
case has come to me for a final decsion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving his opinion.  Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what hes already told Mr 
and Mrs H. I think hes covered most  points  quite clearly and I agree with his analysis and 
the overall conclusions hes reached.
Its not the role of this service simply to overturn a banks decision.  Were an informal dispute 
resolution service resolving individual complaints and awarding redress where  appropriate. If 
we find a financial business has made  a mistake we consider making an award to put 
consumers back into the position that they shouldve been in if the mistakes  hadnt been 
made. I have  great sympathy for Mr and Mrs H and the position they find themselves  in. But, 
for the reasons Ill explain below, I dont think NatWest have done anything wrong here so it 
Ref: DRN64612332wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to uphold  this complaint and ask them to take any 
action.
From everything Ive seen  in this case Im satisfied  the initial debit  card payment (which is 
the only part of this transaction that could be subject to a chargeback  claim) is out of time.  
So NatWest  arent allowed to process  a chargeback claim for the debit  card payment  too 
much time has passed under the scheme rules.  The chargeback  scheme is a voluntary one 
which is run by the card scheme company. The rules are set up by the card scheme  
company and this isnt something NatWest have  any discretion over,  they simply follow 
them. And, as the investigator has explained, the further payment made here was by a bank 
transfer so wouldnt  be covered under  the rules. Although  its of no help now to Mr and 
Mrs H the position  may have been different had they funded  any part of this purchase on a 
credit card as there are no time limits on making a claim to a card issuer  under S75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Given how strongly Mr and Mrs H feel about  whats happened they may want to pursue the 
matter further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying  to 
resolve their dispute with NatWest informally  can do for them. Im sorry  if this disappoints 
Mr and Mrs H.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6461233