K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) handled a claim and his 
policy renewal. 
background
Mr and Mrs S have  a private  medical insurance policy with AXA. Mr S submitted  a claim and 
complained about the way AXA handled  it  he said it used incorrect  and inappropriate terms 
when discussing the renewal and dealt with him in an unfair  way by intending to place an 
exclusion on his policy. AXA didnt call him back  when it said it would and a recording of a 
call with the underwriting department isnt available, although all other calls are. 
AXA looked  into the complaint and agreed  that it had provided a poor service  and offered to 
pay Mr S £250 compensation to reflect the stress  and inconvenience  caused to him.
Mr S feels  that AXA should have offered  him alternative policies at renewal.  In April 2019, he 
spoke to AXA about getting  a different policy  to include psychiatric  cover. But when he told 
AXA he had seen  a psychiatrist, it said it would need  to underwrite the policy  and an 
exclusion might  be applied. 
The call with the underwriting  department  isnt available as AXA hadnt logged it properly. 
During the call, Mr S says AXA confirmed they would apply an exclusion  to the policy  
specifically in relation to the psychiatric issue he was referred  for  they asked  Mr S to 
forward the report from the psychiatrist so they could underwrite the policy more accurately. 
Mr S provided AXA with two letters from his psychiatrist and following this, AXA said it would 
apply an exclusion relating to all psychiatric troubles. 
Mr S thinks  this is unfair as if he had been  offered the alternative policy at an earlier  renewal, 
he wouldnt  have had anything  to declare at the time and an exclusion wouldnt have been 
applied. He feels AXA is treating him unfairly compared to new customers and so referred  
his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  He felt that 
£250 was fair and reasonable  for the customer service issues.  In relation to the policy  
renewal, our investigator  said AXA wasnt obliged to offer alternatives and it didnt do 
anything wrong  by confirming it would apply  an exclusion  as the underwriting department 
had followed  its criteria which applies to all customers. 
Mr S disagreed and has made the following  points  in response to the investigators findings:
He is less interested in the financial compensation  and more  so in making sure that 
AXA personnel  are trained and managed better to avoid a situation  like this 
happening again
AXA has a duty of care to existing policyholders  to offer broader coverage if this is 
available to new customers 
Mr S fundamentally disagrees that it is up to a policyholder to ask for additional or 
broader coverage - the average  policy holder would not know what  is and isnt 
available and would not know in advance of having a medical condition what they 
might or might not need to ask the insurer for
Ref: DRN63121332There can be no valid underwriting reason why an insurer  would  provide  broader  
coverage to new policy  holders  compared to existing policyholders if the same 
questions are asked
Had AXA offered  broader coverage  to Mr S at the renewal of his policy in May 2018, 
he would  have  taken  it and this complaint wouldnt have  arisen as he would already 
have had the psychiatrist mental health coverage and it wouldnt need  to be 
discussed for the May 2019  renewal
AXA do not know and havent asked how many  times Mr S has seen a psychiatrist
Mr S says it is odd and very surprising that the key conversation  he had with an 
underwriter wasnt recorded  when every other call was
In addition, AXA has also provided further  comments for me to consider and in summary, it 
has said:
All its policies are sold and renewed on a non-advised basis
The renewal letter from 2018 clearly explains on page two that the member  should 
contact it if the plan no longer meets their needs
Mr S could  have moved  to a different policy entirely which may have resulted in him 
being re-underwritten, he could have re-declared his medical  history  and pre-existing 
conditions may not have been  covered
The member would  need to ask if other options  were available  
The proposed  exclusion for psychiatric illness is AXAs commercial  judgement
And so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr S 
complaint should  be upheld,  and largely for the same reasons as already explained  by the 
investigator.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say AXA should treat customers fairly and should 
deal with claims promptly. In this case, both sides agree that AXA didnt deal with Mr S 
claim promptly for which it has offered  to pay £250 compensation. And I consider that is fair. 
In addition, AXA has provided feedback to its staff. 
In relation to the policy exclusion and AXAs failure  to provide alternative options to Mr S at 
the point of renewal, I dont think AXA has done anything wrong or unfair. AXA isnt obliged 
to sell or discuss alternative policies at the point of renewal  unless  the customer asks for 
this.
In this case, additional cover was discussed at the May 2019 renewal. But Mr S complained 
when AXA told him it would apply an exclusion in relation to any psychiatric troubles as he 
had seen a psychiatrist.  He doesnt  think its fair to apply an exclusion because if he had 
bought the policy at the renewal in 2018,  he would have been covered as he hadnt seen a 
psychiatrist at that time.  
AXA has provided evidence from its underwriting department which  shows that if someone is 
looking to upgrade their policy and declares low mood, it would add an exclusion relating to 
all psychiatric  troubles  no benefit would be payable for any investigation  and treatment 
related to psychiatric troubles.
Ref: DRN63121333And so I dont think AXA has treated Mr S unfairly by confirming it would have added  an 
exclusion for psychiatric treatment as this is part of its underwriting criteria. 
Mr S has said that his main concern is that AXA isnt telling existing policyholders  of the 
cover available to new customers. As the policies  are non-advised sale, AXA isnt giving 
recommendations or advice and so it would  be up to an individual  consumer  to check  the 
terms of their cover to ensure theyre still happy  with it. Only if a customer wants  to change 
their cover or find out about  other policies would I then expect AXA to enter  into discussion 
about this.
Mr S feels  all customers should  be advised of all the options  available to them and existing 
customers should be offered the same cover as new customers.  But some long-standing 
customers may be happy with the terms of their policy. AXA isnt obliged to give 
recommendations or sell policies which  are best. And AXA has confirmed  its underwriting  
criteria relating to low mood which would apply to both new and existing customers. And so I 
dont think it has treated Mr S unfairly.  
Mr S doesnt  agree  that a customer should be responsible for enquiring about additional 
cover as he says he doesnt  know what he is likely to need.  But I dont think  its fair to expect 
AXA to know what cover a customer is likely  to need or want, so its renewal letter sets out 
that the customer should review the policy and make sure it still meets their needs  and I 
think this is sufficient. AXA would  only be able to give information about  different policies 
when asked rather than at every renewal  as it isnt giving advice or making 
recommendations. 
The renewal  letter from March 2018  says:
Please check to make sure your cover  is still appropriate for your needs.  You have 
been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance  cover you 
want at a better price  if you shop  around. We also have  a range of other options 
which you may wish to consider. Please call us on
Based on the above, Im satisfied that AXAs renewal letter makes it clear  that other options 
are available and that Mr S would need  to call to discuss those options.  
I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed  with my decision. But overall,  Im satisfied that 
AXA has offered  appropriate compensation to Mr S for the poor service it provided to him 
when he submitted a claim. In relation to renewal, I dont think  it has treated Mr S unfairly  
compared to other  customers  if a customer declared low mood, AXAs criteria confirms an 
exclusion would be applied even if it was a new customer. So Mr S hasnt been treated 
differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Mr S complaint  should  be upheld.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ref: DRN63121334ombudsman
Ref: DRN6312133