K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Automotive Compliance Ltd (AC) arranged a loan for her to buy a car 
which was unaffordable.
background
In February 2016  Miss S took put a loan to buy a second hand car. It cost £8,274. Miss S 
sold her previous car to the dealer  for £3,000 and received this sum by cheque rather than 
use it to reduce the cost of the finance  for the new car.
The loan was brokered by AC and provided by a bank I will call B. She says that the loan 
was initially declined. But the broker said he knew someone at the bank and made  a phone 
call which resulted in the loan being granted. She said she had a poor credit  rating and other 
lenders wouldnt  lend her money. She also said that she was mentally and financially 
vulnerable at the time. 
In late 2018 she complained to AC, but it rejected her complaint. It said its procedures had 
been followed and that it went through a three  stage process. This involved a telephone 
discussion followed by two face to face interviews.  Miss S had been  questioned about 
affordability and her answers hadnt  raised any grounds for concern. It said that it was a 
credit broker  and its representatives dont have the power to overrule lending decisions 
made by the lenders. 
Miss S brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted  Miss S had said that dealer had 
since told her she shouldnt  have  been  granted the loan.  He also contacted B and obtained 
the application data and the loan agreement. 
He addressed Miss Ss point that she had two defaulted accounts and noted  these  had been  
recorded after the loan was granted. He also looked  at the timeline  of the application on Bs 
records and this showed there  was only minute  between the application being  received and 
it being granted. He thought this showed  it unlikely the application had been denied initially.
He also said that different  lenders had different  policies and one may chose to grant a loan 
while another may not. This didnt mean the former was wrong to do so. He added  that he 
couldnt see that Miss S had made AC aware of her heath condition at the time and therefore 
it was unable to take it into account.
He recognised Miss S was struggling  financially, but he didnt think  AC had done  anything 
wrong in helping Miss S obtain the loan. He suggested she talk to B about an affordable  
payment plan.
Miss S didnt agree and said the initial decline hadnt left a footprint. The adjudicator said 
that any declined  application for credit would show on Miss Ss credit file. He said a soft 
credit check  and a declined application  for credit are two different things,  but he believed 
both would show on her credit file, although  a soft credit check wouldn't be seen by other 
lenders.
 
Ref: DRN65442532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Miss S, but I find myself in agreement with the adjudicator.  As he 
has explained ACs role was as broker and it didnt make the decision on the granting of the 
loan. It explored possible  options and recommended B. It was B which  accepted the loan 
application and made the offer.
I have looked  at Bs internal records and I am satisfied that these show  only one application 
which was accepted. The records of AC and those of B as regards the timing  of the 
application also match. I dont doubt Miss Ss recollection of what the representative told her, 
but in the absence of supporting evidence I find it difficult  to conclude that the AC 
representative and a member of Bs staff colluded  to make her a loan which was 
unaffordable. 
I have also noted  that Miss S was able to meet the loan repayments for well over two years  
until illness  made this difficult. While I am sympathetic to her current situation  I have to 
consider whether AC acted correctly at the time the loan was granted over three  years  ago. 
That also applies to the defaults on her credit  file which appeared after the loan was taken 
out. 
If these had been present before her application  and she had struggled to make the 
repayments from the beginning of the loan I might  have reached a different conclusion.
I appreciate Miss S says she was turned down by other lenders, though I have  seen no 
evidence of this. However, as the adjudicator has pointed out the lending criteria  used  by 
different lenders varies and this is not a reason which  would allow me to uphold  her 
complaint. 
I also appreciate that Miss S has told us she was not in a good place at the time of the loan 
and AC should  have  checked this. Such matters can be difficult  to identify and if Miss S 
didnt make the representative aware  of her situation  it wouldnt have been  easy  to identify 
and refuse  the loan she was seeking.  I am not sure why she didnt use her old car as part 
exchange to reduce the loan. It may have been she had other  financial needs  to which  this 
was put and I have not taken it into account  in my decision.
I appreciate Miss S will be disappointed  in my decision and I am aware she is facing 
challenging times, but I am unable to uphold  her complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision before 
18 August 2019.
Ref: DRN65442533Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6544253