K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained that he was given unsuitable  advice by Legacy Private Wealth  Limited 
when it recommended he transfer the preserved benefits he held in a former employers 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP).
Mr M says that Legacy failed to make sure the transfer was on a block  or buddy basis  and 
so hes lost the chance to take benefits  at age 50 instead of 55.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below. I explained  that I intended to uphold the complaint but that I didnt intend to make any 
further award as I felt that the offer Legacy  Wealth had made of £10,000 was fair.
Legacy Wealth said it had no further  comments.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said,  in summary;
Legacy Wealth had been negligent.  He was not informed of the possibility of using 
the buddy transfer arrangement.
Whilst there has been no loss, he has not worked since March  2018 and he has been 
forced to use family savings because he cannot access the pension. This has caused 
stress.
Legacy Wealth restated  that it had never been  Mr Ms intention to retire before 55 and he 
would be eligible to access  the pension soon in any event.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, I agree with Mr M that Legacy Wealth should have considered the buddy  transfer 
option. Had it done so, no doubt it would have been used as having  the possibility of 
accessing the pension early would  have been a valuable  option whether or not Mr M actually 
planned to retire early. So I am upholding the complaint.
But as Mr M appears to accept, there is no direct financial  loss because the pension cannot  
be accessed. There is no doubt considerable frustration as other assets have had to be used 
instead but that is not a loss in itself.  The pension  funds  are intact. I think  the offer Legacy  
Wealth made of £10,000 is fair to compensate for the stress,  frustration  and disruption  to Mr 
Ms financial  planning.
Ref: DRN60324012my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Legacy  Private Wealth Limited. It must pay Mr M £10,000. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60324013extract from provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M complained that he was given unsuitable advice  by Legacy Private Wealth Limited when it 
recommended he transfer the preserved benefits he held in a former employers occupational  pension 
scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
Mr M says that Legacy failed  to make sure the transfer was on a block or buddy basis and so hes lost 
the chance to take benefits at age 50 instead of 55.
background
Mr M had been a member  of an OPS for over 25 years until he left the employer  in late 2013.  He met 
with Legacy to discuss  his retirement  options. It was noted that Mr M wanted the option of being  
allowed access to his pension if he needed  to as he was aged 52. He wanted flexibility  to take his 
pension benefits  early as his new employer  was in discussions with him about  a severance 
agreement.
The OPS scheme allowed  members to draw pension benefits from age 50. This benefit  could have 
been kept if the transfer  had been arranged  on a block transfer basis.  Following advice from Legacy  
in 2016, Mr M agreed to transfer his pension to a SIPP but the transfer was not made  in a block 
arrangement. This meant he lost the opportunity to take benefits before age 55.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into this complaint  and recommended it should be upheld. He said:
Mr M shouldnt have  been advised to transfer his OPS. The discount  rates published  since 
the industry wide pension review gave an indication  that, with eleven years to retirement, a 
growth rate of 6.44% would  be needed. Hed have needed an additional  growth  of 2.14%  in 
order to simply  match the benefits given up in the OPS  transfer.
No calculations had been provided for if the benefits were to be taken  at age 52 from the OPS 
and then compared to the SIPP using  the buddy basis.  
Mr M needed to be shown the comparison  at age 52 as he had no other earned income if his 
employer had offered him redundancy.  
Legacy did not agree.  It questioned why the adjudicator  had addressed the wider suitability of the 
advice when the complaint had been only about the loss of opportunity to take benefit at 50. It also 
said Mr M was aware of the risks involved but intended to carry  on working  if he was offered a 
severance with his current employer. Legacy said he wouldnt  be taking benefits at age 52 especially  
in light of the actuarial reduction that would have been applied to his OPS. Legacy made an offer to 
settle the complaint  but on a different basis to the adjudicators recommendation. Mr M subsequently 
rejected its offer.
The adjudicator carefully considered Legacys comment  but was not persuaded to change  his opinion.  
Therefore this complaint  has been referred to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator 
and so Ive decided to make  this provisional  decision.
Under the old OPS  arrangement Mr M could access the benefits  from age 50 if necessary although 
this would  have been subject to actuarial reductions.
Mr M has made a very specific complaint that had he been treated as part of a buddy (or block)  
transfer arrangement  by Legacy he could  have retained the ability to access the benefits  from age 50.
Ref: DRN60324014Mr M did not complain about  the general suitability of the advice to transfer. The original complaint 
was only that he had lost the chance to take benefits before  age 55.
This service does have  an inquisitorial remit and we can look at issues beyond those  that a consumer 
raises specifically  or expressly.  But in this case the complaint made was very specific and on a very 
narrow issue.  Mr M is unhappy that he doesnt have the chance  to access his pension  benefits  before 
age 55. But I think the gist of the issue is that he may have liked to access  his benefits flexibly  before 
55 and not that he may have  wanted to take the OPS benefits in full before 55. That is what he would 
have had to have done  within the OPS. So I dont think it is fair to look at the wider advice in these  
particular circumstances.  And I think Mr M had sufficient awareness to make the complaint  he 
intended.
 
I think  Legacy acknowledge that Mr M could have kept the right to take benefits from age 50 if the 
transfer to the new SIPP had been  carried  out on a buddy transfer (or block transfer) basis. It has 
offered Mr and Mrs M jointly £20,000 in respect of this issue.
Mr M hasnt suffered a financial loss. He has lost the opportunity to start to take pension benefits 
before 55 years of age. Its not apparent that he intended  to take benefits  this early. But it seems to 
me that it would have  been a valuable  benefit given that there were risks in his new employment. 
In all the circumstances I think that the sum offered by Legacy is not unreasonable. Assuming  that 
offer can be considered as £10,000 to each I think it is fair. Im not currently minded to make a further 
award.
provisional decision
Im minded to uphold  this complaint about Legacy Private Wealth Limited.  It must  pay Mr M £10,000. 
But this is my provisional decision and I will reconsider my conclusions once the parties have made 
any further comments.
Ref: DRN6032401