K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that she didnt receive  all of the refund of the Early  Repayment  Charge 
(ERC) she was expecting  after she switched her Nationwide Building Society mortgage from 
a joint to a sole mortgage.
background
Miss B and her former partner jointly entered into a mortgage with Nationwide. This 
mortgage was subject to an ERC.
Following the breakdown  of Miss Bs relationship it was decided the property subject  to the 
mortgage was to be sold. Miss B met with a Nationwide  adviser and agreed to port part of 
the mortgage product to her new mortgage  on a new property. She was told by the adviser  
that on redemption  of the original mortgage an ERC needed to be paid. But that if she ported 
the mortgage there would  be refund of £2,400. 
After the sale of the property the refund of £2,400 was sent to Miss B and her former 
partners solicitors. The solicitors told Miss B that the refund would be split equally between 
Miss B and her former partner. Miss B feels Nationwide  should have made this clear  to her.
Nationwide disagrees.  It says the mortgage adviser  wouldnt  be aware of any private 
agreements Miss B may have with her former  partner or that her solicitor  hadnt already 
taken the relevant steps to ensure the refund was distributed fairly. It did offer to allow  
Miss B to have a rate switch or remortgage but only if the whole of the ERC refund was 
returned.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He agreed with Nationwide that 
its mortgage adviser wouldnt have known what Miss B had agreed with her ex-partner or 
that her solicitor hadnt already taken  action to ensure that the refund  was distributed fairly. 
He didnt think Nationwide should  have considered that Miss B may only have received half 
of the ERC when  advising her about mortgage products during her application.  He thought  
Nationwides offer  provided the ERC was returned  to allow  a rate switch  or remortgage 
was fair and reasonable.
Miss B doesnt agree. She feels she should  have  been told £1,200 was not going to go to 
her from the outset from the ERC  refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Bs frustration at what has happened. I can see how it would have 
been helpful if Nationwide had told her she would need to agree with her ex partner how the 
refund would be split. And that together  they would need to tell their solicitor what they had 
agreed. But I dont  think  Nationwide was wrong not to do so. It isnt Nationwides 
responsibility to give advice on the split of the proceeds of sale of Miss Bs former home.
I think Nationwide has been  fair to offer to allow Miss B to have a rate switch or remortgage.  
I appreciate this offer doesnt work for Miss Bs circumstances but  as I dont think 
Nationwide did anything  wrong  it wouldnt be fair to order it to do anything else.
Ref: DRN68289852my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6828985