K821x#15complaint
Ms M is unhappy that BUPA  Insurance Limited didnt provide her with the information  she 
says she needed  when her policy was due to renew.  
background
Ms M holds a private  medical  insurance  policy with BUPA.  
Her policy was due to renew on 01 January 2018.  She contacted BUPA  in early November 
2017 to talk about her renewal premiums; she told BUPAs adviser she wanted  to reduce her 
monthly payments.
At that time,  BUPA couldnt give Ms M information  about her renewal premium. The adviser  
told her the premium information wouldnt be available until a few weeks before her renewal 
date.
Ms M expressed  her concerns.  She explained  that her renewal date had caused  difficulties 
the previous year. She said she didnt have time to consider her options due to the 
Christmas and New Year period and asked about changing her renewal date.
Following this conversation, Ms M continued to get in touch with BUPA to talk about  her 
policy options. Both parties agree  there were several conversations  over the following 
months. In summary, the key points  raised by Ms M include  
Repeatedly asking  for the full terms and conditions of an alternative policy but she 
was only provided  with a summary of the policy terms
Complaints  were  registered on her behalf,  but Ms M didnt always hear back when  
she expected  to
She had to repeatedly ask for her cooling off period for her existing policy to be 
extended while she waited for information
She had to repeatedly ask for her cooling off period for a quotation for a new policy 
to be extended  while she waited  for information
She was given conflicting information  about the opportunity to change  her renewal 
date
And to compound  the situation,  in June 2018 Ms M received a letter telling her that 
her policy  had been cancelled
BUPA accepts the service failings and offered Ms M compensation totalling £575 by way of 
an apology. It initially paid £500  in February  2018 and then a further £75 in May 2018.   It 
said Ms M had received the full terms and conditions  of the policy  shed asked for  they 
were the same terms as her existing policy  but it accepted none  of its advisers explained  
that to Ms M when she called.
Our investigator upheld  Ms Ms complaint and recommended BUPA increase the level of 
compensation offered. He found  that Ms M had continued to have problems  even after 
BUPA had made the two compensation payments.  He also identified  a further problem which  
hadnt been resolved by BUPA. 
He recommended BUPA pay £800  (less the £575  already paid)  recognising the trouble and 
upset Ms M has experienced. 
Ref: DRN64858262Ms M disagrees.  She believes BUPA should  offer her a full years policy coverage free of 
charge.
BUPA also disagrees.  It believes  the level of compensation its offered is in line with the 
problems Ms M faced. 
Because both parties disagree,  I need  to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And based  on everything  Ive seen, I 
agree with the findings of our investigator, and for the same  reasons.  Let me explain.
Ive listened to all the telephone conversations between BUPA and Ms M that have been 
provided to me; more  than 20 calls. These calls include Ms Ms conversations  with BUPAs  
sales department,  renewals department and complaints department.  The calls took place 
between November 2017 and June 2018;  some of the calls are quite  lengthy.
Ive also considered industry guidance (ICOBS). Had Ms M opted to change her policy, it 
would have been considered a non-advised sale. In those circumstances industry  guidance 
expects insurers to provide sufficient  information to allow a consumer to make an informed 
choice. BUPA agrees it didnt do enough  in this case. It accepts the advisers  Ms M spoke to 
could have done more to answer Ms Ms questions and to give her the information  she 
needed to make her decision. Overall the information given to Ms M was often confusing and 
misleading and it was clearly frustrating  for her.
Our investigator thought £800  more  fairly  reflected the problems Ms M had experienced.
In the course  of his investigation  into Ms Ms complaint, our investigator identified  a further 
problem. In December  2017 Ms M was promised one months free subscription.  BUPAs 
advisor has confirmed  the adjustment to Ms Ms policy wasnt  applied.
The role of this service is not to punish  a business where things have  gone  wrong  but to 
recognise the impact  of what happened  on the consumer  and where  possible, to put them  
back in the position they would have been  had the mistake not occurred. 
Im mindful Ms M originally contacted BUPA in November 2017  for two reasons; she was 
concerned about  problems  shed  experienced when renewing her policy the previous year 
and she was trying to reduce her monthly  premium.
In this case, her concerns about her renewal date appear to have been well-founded. And 
because no-one  at BUPA was able to answer her questions  about the alternative policy, she 
was left to pay the higher rate premium longer than she perhaps would have. I understand, 
ultimately Ms M decided  to remain on her existing policy  and that her renewal date has 
been adjusted  to later in the month of January - but it was only in May 2018 that BUPAs 
records were updated  accurately  to reflect the decision shed taken.  
Overall, Im satisfied BUPAs failure to provide sufficient information  to Ms M, in a timely  
fashion, meant Ms M suffered months  of frustration and uncertainty  about her cover. The 
level of service she received meant she spent a significant amount of time trying  to resolve 
Ref: DRN64858263her concerns  and was faced with paying higher  premiums despite letting BUPA  know, at the 
outset, her desire to reduce her costs.  
That said,  I dont think free cover for a year is a reasonable level of compensation given the 
evidence Ive seen.
I think £800 fairly recognises the impact of this situation on her. I also believe BUPA  should  
honour its commitment of one months  free subscription.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA  Insurance  Limited to pay 
Ms M £800 (less the £575 already paid) for the trouble and upset shes experienced and 
apply one months free subscription  to her policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6485826