K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H took out a loan with NatWest in 1996.  He also bought PPI. The cost of the PPI was 
added to his loan. The PPI cost £323,  and the extra interest Mr H paid was £84.20. The loan 
(and PPI) ran from 1996 to February  2000.
Mr H says the PPI was mis-sold because he didnt need it.
NatWest said that it hadnt considered whether the PPI had been mis-sold  because  Mr H 
had received a payment of £628.80  when he made a claim. It says this exceeds any refund 
hed get even if the PPI had been mis-sold  so theres no refund due.
Mr H didnt agree. He says the payment was a gesture of goodwill from the bank, after it 
provided poor service  when he tried to make  a claim, which had been rejected. He says the 
amount bears no relationship to his earnings at the time, and says NatWest  should be able 
to explain the amount  he received but hasnt.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint, because she thought  the payment Mr H 
received exceeded any refund that might (or might not) have been  due. Mr H disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contested, as some of it is here,  Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities   
thats what I think most likely happened, given the evidence  that is available.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. Mr H has made several points  which Ill deal with 
individually.
the claim 
Mr H says a payment of £678.80 made  into his account in September  1999  wasnt for a 
successful PPI claim. He says it was a goodwill payment made because of the poor service 
hed received.
Ive looked the evidence  sent to us by both parties. Amongst this is one of Mr Hs bank 
statements, which shows a credit entry for £678.80  in September 1999, which is labelled  
Loan insurance claim. The note also mentions the dates 2 Aug  5 Sep, but I dont think 
this is particularly relevant  to the period Mr H was out of work, as Ive explained  below.  
Mr H doesnt say he didnt  get this payment  but he says its nothing to do with the PPI he 
bought. Hes explained he tried to make  a claim but it was rejected because the insurer 
didnt think hed been made  redundant  but had instead left his job. 
Ref: DRN66358132NatWest sent us copies  of notes it made  in 1999 and 2000 when it was in contact with Mr H. 
The first, from February 1999  says,  in summary, that Mr H has had a letter confirming his 
win ie he didnt leave  his job of his own accord and was going to contact the insurer  (part of 
the NatWest group of businesses) about making  a claim. It also says hes just started a new 
job. I think its fair to say Mr H had been  unemployed  for some time at that point, especially 
as the dates fit with what Mr H told us about  moving  jobs in mid 1998  and then finding  
himself unemployed.
Notes from a couple  of months later refer to a meeting (which didnt take place)  about  
making the claim following court case win, and a little later to a completed claim form being 
sent to the insurer.  A further  note says Mr H received a credit for the claim in mid September 
1999, which matches with the date shown on his statement.  
I think its fair to rely on these notes as they were made at the time and dont rely on 
memories  its often difficult to recall exactly what was said or done, especially after 20 
years. Even if Mr H hadnt  won a court case,  I think its clear he had problems  meeting  his 
loan payments when  he wasnt working,  and that, after a dispute, he was able to make a 
claim. Overall Im persuaded  the payment of £678.80 was made  as a result of Mr H having  
PPI.
Theres also a note from February 2000  which  says Mr Hs current  account  was out of 
order  suggesting it was overdrawn or otherwise being run unsatisfactorily.  A further note 
from this time says NatWest agreed  a loan of £500  at that point because  of the service it had 
provided. That might be what Mr H recalls as a goodwill gesture. 
claim amount
Mr H says the amount  wouldnt be enough to cover his lost earnings at the time.
It might help if I explain that Mr H didnt buy a policy that replaced his income if he was made 
redundant  the PPI was meant to cover  the monthly instalments on his loan.  Those were  
£84.85 a month according to his bank statements. The payment of £678.80  is equivalent to 8 
monthly payments.  Although we dont have the actual policy documents  from the time, this is 
what policies like this typically paid out, sometimes after a waiting  period  of a month or so. I 
havent seen anything that suggests  the payment wasnt in line with the policy  terms and 
conditions.
refund calculations 
NatWest told us Mr H paid £407.20  for the PPI including interest. Thats  in line with what this 
type of policy normally  cost. Its sent us details of how it calculated  any refund that might be 
due to Mr H. I can assure Mr H Ive looked  at these and they are in line with how this service 
calculates redress.
Mr H also wants  to see how NatWest calculated the payment he got in 1999.  I dont think 
NatWest has that information. But the payment does equate to 8 loan instalments  which, 
as Ive said above, fairly reflects  what weve been  told about Mr Hs period of unemployment. 
Ref: DRN66358133other points
Mr H says its not fair for NatWest to withhold calculations and the policy  documents from 
him, as he intends  to develop a case to take to court. That is of course, his choice, if he 
doesnt accept  my decision. But from what Ive seen,  I dont  think  NatWest has done that. I 
think instead it simply doesnt have all the documents   including policy documents   that Mr 
H would  like to see. Thats  not surprising given this PPI sale took place 20 years ago. I 
wouldnt expect either party  to keep documentation indefinitely.
Overall Im satisfied that NatWest has fairly  assessed Mr Hs complaint and Im satisfied  hes 
already received more money  than hed get in redress  if his policy had been  mis-sold. So Im 
not going to ask NatWest to do more than it has.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6635813