K820x#14Complaint
Mr I is unhappy that NewDay Ltd is holding him liable for a transaction he says he didnt 
make on his credit card account.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019 to explain why I thought  Mr Is complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said I would consider anything else anyone  wanted to give me. 
This is an extract from that provisional decision:
Mr I had an Aqua credit card, provided by NewDay. He initially  said to us that he last 
saw the card when  hed used it for petrol, at that time it was in his car. But when 
filling up his car again  a few weeks later he discovered that his card had been lost.
Mr I contacted NewDay on 28 March  2017  to report the card lost. There  is some  
dispute about what was said during this call. Unfortunately, NewDay hasnt been able 
to provide a recording  of it, or any notes from the call.
Mr I contacted NewDay again on 20 April 2017  to chase for an. NewDay  has 
provided some brief notes  of a call Mr I had with its fraud team. But again,  hasnt  
been able to provide a recording of this.
It isnt entirely clear whether the notes relate  to a conversation that took place  on 20 
April or 11 May 2017. The notes  state:
The customer advised that lost his card on 21/03
didn't realise  this until 28/03 after the spend  occurred
didn't report  the card as lost to us until 28/03 when the card was blocked
asked where PIN kept
he advised In his mobile phone which was stolen from this coat as well
asked If it was mobile that he was ringing In from he advised  no - a different 
mobile that he uses sometimes
As above, NewDay has said Mr I told them that the card had been  lost on 21 March 
2017. Mr I has been adamant that he called  NewDay the day he discovered that his 
card was missing. This date is significant,  as the card was used on 27 March 2017  to 
make a purchase of £235 in a jewellery shop. Mr I disputes having authorised that 
transaction.
NewDay has held Mr I liable for this transaction. It has said that the cards chip and 
PIN were used for the transaction and there  was no evidence  of third party fraud. Mr I 
told NewDay that his phone was also stolen. NewDay has noted  that Mr I said it was 
in his coat. Mr I told us the phone was passcode protected, and that he stored his 
PIN for the card in this phone. NewDay said this was a breach of the terms and 
conditions of the account. It also said Mr I didnt report the loss of the card as soon 
as he discovered it missing.
Mr I was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to this service after 
NewDay didnt change  its position. Our investigator  thought that there didnt  seem  to 
be an explanation  for how Mr Is PIN was known. And that it was difficult to see how 
a third party couldve obtained this to carry out the disputed transaction without Mr Is 
authority. So he didnt think Mr Is complaint should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN65648992Mr I responded, disagreeing with this outcome. He said that along with storing  his 
PIN in his phone, he also kept it in his wallet which was lost at the same time as the 
card and phone.  He said that he made notes of his PIN due to poor memory  resulting 
from a medical condition. Mr I asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Weve spoken  to Mr I to clarify the events around how he lost his card.  Given  the 
time thats  passed  he said he had difficulty remembering what  happened.  But he did 
say that both his wallet,  containing his card, and his phone were  in the back  pocket of 
his trousers and were lost at the same time. Mr I said that he did not notice this loss 
immediately however, partly because  he had other  credit cards available to use 
which werent kept in the wallet. 
Since raising  this matter  with NewDay, Mr I has paid off the balance  on his Aqua  card 
to avoid continuing to attract interest.
Before I move onto set out the considerations I feel are relevant to this case,  I will 
just confirm the documentary evidence that has been made available to me. The 
following isnt an exhaustive list though, and is only intended to highlight the key 
evidence that has been supplied by NewDay.
NewDay has been able to provide;
the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Is account in March  2017
an audit trail relating  to the disputed  transaction  showing amongst other 
things the
time and location  of the transaction, and the method of authentication
a copy of NewDays final response  letter of 20 July 2017
Mr Is card statement for March-April 2017
notes of communications  with Mr I from 21 January 2017  to 24 July 2017
confirmation that Mr Is card was blocked  on 28 March 2017.
NewDay has also confirmed that the last time the online app was used  to view the 
account was in 2016.
I then went on to set out my provisional  findings  as follows:
Were the transactions authorised by Mr I?
Generally, unless a payment transaction is authorised,  a creditor such  as NewDay  
has no authority to debit  a customers account.  So Ive considered whether or not this 
transaction was authorised.
For me to be satisfied that these payments were authorised, I first need  to determine 
whether they were  authenticated.  Authentication is the procedure which allows  the 
bank to verify the identity of its customer or the validity  of the use of a specific  
payment instrument, including the use of the customers personalised security  
credentials. This can be done  in a number of ways (e.g. chip and PIN, card number,  
CVV and expiry date etc.).
Ref: DRN65648993In this case, NewDay has been able to provide evidence  that the cards chip and PIN 
were used to authenticate  this particular payment. Ive seen the electronic records  
which indicate the genuine  chip in the card was read and the correct PIN was 
entered.
Based on this information, Im satisfied that the payments  from Mr Is account were  
authenticated. However, even if a payment has been authenticated, a payment out of 
someones account can only be treated as authorised if the payer,  or their agent, has 
given consent  to it. So Ive gone  on to consider here whether I think  Mr I gave  
consent to the transaction and therefore whether it was authorised or not.
Mr I has said that his card was lost and used, without his knowledge or permission, 
and that the transaction  took place before he realised the card was gone.  If this is the 
case, and it wasnt  Mr I or someone acting on his behalf that gave consent to the 
transaction by using  his card and PIN, it wouldnt be reasonable to say that it was 
authorised by him.
But I do need to consider  whether Mr Is account  of events is more likely than not 
what happened. My starting point is to accept  that what hes said is accurate and 
then to use the evidence available to test this.
Mr I says that the card was lost and used by someone else without his permission. 
What hes said on this point has not been  consistent though. I have  borne  in mind 
that this testimony  was provided over a lengthy  span of time, and that someone  
might not clearly remember events after a while.
According to the notes  NewDay has provided,  Mr I said that the card had been  in his 
coat and was stolen, along with his mobile  phone.  And that he kept his PIN stored in 
his phone. But when speaking with this service, Mr I initially told us that the last time 
he recalls seeing  his card was in his car, and that he noticed  it was missing when he 
needed to use it to buy petrol.
I have considered whether Mr I was referring  to this loss or theft as being from his 
car or his coat when speaking to NewDay.  There  is no other evidence of a coat 
being taken or mentioned. I note that Mr I does have a strong accent, and NewDay 
might have misheard  his comment here. Unfortunately, the recording is not available, 
so it is not possible  for me to be sure on this point. As such,  I would be willing  to give 
Mr I the benefit of the doubt here. That would mean  accepting that what  he told 
NewDay, is consistent with what he indicated in his initial conversation  with our 
service; that his card was last seen in his car.
However, more recently, Mr I has said that his card was lost along with his wallet,  
which was in his back pocket. He has said that his phone was also in his back 
pocket. And that both were lost without Mr I realising. I have difficulty finding this 
version of events plausible. 
Mr I has said that the phone he lost was not his main phone. He has also said that he 
only had his NewDay Aqua card in his wallet, and that hed left his other cards at 
home. And I have taken  into account that Mr Is most  recent conversation with this 
service was over two years  after the events in question. So it is possible  that Mr I is 
mistaken in his recollection  and I have also thought about the possibility that, rather 
than these being in his back  pocket,  they might  have been in his coat.
Ref: DRN65648994But I dont think it would  be plausible for someone to lose both their wallet and phone 
at some time before  the transaction on 27 March 2017, and to not realise  this loss for 
at least a day.
There is also the question  of how the transaction  was authenticated without Mr Is 
involvement. As it was authenticated,  the party that made the transaction must have 
been aware of Mr Is PIN.
According to the phone note above, Mr I told NewDay  that the PIN was in his mobile 
phone which was lost at the same  time his card. But Mr I told the investigator at this 
service that his mobile was passcode protected. So it would not have  been  easy  for 
someone to have accessed  this phone.
This doesnt rule out someone knowing  this passcode  however, and I have  borne this 
in mind. But when  questioned on how someone  could have accessed  his phone to 
obtain his PIN, Mr I gave  an explanation that there  is no record of him having given 
before; he said that he also kept a note of his PIN in his wallet  where the card was 
kept. This note was not however in English.
I have thought about why Mr I did not mention this earlier. Mr I said he kept this 
number stored like this due to memory  problems. But I dont think these issues  would 
have stopped him from telling NewDay when he reported his card lost that he also 
kept a record  of his PIN in this way.
We dont know exactly what Mr I was asked about  this by NewDay. Without the 
recording, I dont  know if the question it asked  Mr I, or the development of the 
conversation, would have led him to mention keeping the PIN in his wallet  as well as 
his phone. The call note says asked  where  PIN kept, but it isnt clear  how this 
question was phrased. When Mr I started discussing his phone, its not clear he 
would have been led back to mention if there were any other places his PIN was 
kept.
However, given the storing of his PIN in his wallet wasnt  mentioned  at any time prior 
to our investigator issuing  his opinion on the complaint, I do have to take into account 
what can only be described  as a further inconsistency  in Mr Is testimony.
The final significant  detail  Ive thought about  is how the card was used. There  was 
only one transaction  that took place  that Mr I says he didnt make; the £235 jewellery 
shop purchase.  I find it unusual that a fraudster  with a card and PIN, who had many 
hours before the card was cancelled, didnt do more with it.
Taking all of the circumstances into account,  although its possible that a third party  
stole or found Mr Is lost card and was able to use it because they found  the piece of 
paper with his PIN in his wallet,  I dont  think this is more likely  than not what  
happened. I dont find his account, that he lost his wallet and phone from his back  
pocket, and then didnt notice them missing for at least  a day, plausible.
On balance, considering all the evidence,  Im not minded to conclude that Mr Is 
Aqua credit card was out of his possession without his permission. So I currently 
consider that Mr I most  likely  made or otherwise authorised the disputed transaction.
Ref: DRN65648995Neither party has responded to my provisional decision with any further comments. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  points  have  been put forward by either  party,  Ive reached the same 
conclusions I did in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6564899