K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited  irresponsibly gave him a credit card in 2015 when he 
was in an IVA, had outstanding debt and as it shouldve seen he was experiencing financial 
difficulties. He wants all the interest  and charges  hes paid refunded,  the debt written off or 
reduced and his credit file amended.
background
MBNA said in its final response that when it received Mr Bs application it considered the 
information he supplied  and held by credit  reference agencies. At the time this showed some 
debt but his payments were up to date.  There was no record  of an IVA. It recognised Mr B 
was in financial difficulty and applied a restriction on the account to prevent any new 
transactions. As soon as it was contacted  by a debt management charity  on Mr Bs behalf it 
waived interest and fees on the account.  Its fees and interest were applied  correctly and the 
information on Mr Bs credit file is accurate.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
MBNA carried  out checks on Mr Bs application. It verified what  he said with credit 
reference agency information. There was no reference to an IVA and although  there 
was some debt Mr Bs payments were up to date.  
Even if MBNA had been aware  of an IVA that doesnt mean it shouldnt lend to Mr B. 
And he wouldve  been aware of the terms of any IVA. He was responsible for 
applying for the card and then using it whatever his personal circumstances were. 
When in 2017  MBNA  recognised Mr B was in financial difficulty it put a restriction on 
the account. And when contacted by the debt management charity it immediately 
stopped interest  and charges on the account.
So, she wont be asking MBNA to do any more.
Mr B doesnt  agree.  He says there was clear evidence of him being  in an IVA and he 
shouldnt legally have  been lent money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its up to MBNA to decide who it deals with and gives credit to. Thats  a matter  of it making a 
commercial decision which we wouldnt normally interfere with. But wed expect it to carry 
out proportionate checks before doing so.
Here I agree  with the investigator  that MBNA carried out proportionate and appropriate 
checks. There was nothing to show Mr B was in an IVA and although he had some  debt his 
payments were up to date. Consequently  I think it was reasonable for MBNA  to decide to 
give Mr B a card and some  credit as hed requested.
Ref: DRN60176762When MBNA later became aware of Mr Bs financial difficulties it also acted positively and 
sympathetically. It placed a restriction on his card to stop the balance  increasing and 
stopped applying interest and charges when contacted by the debt management charity.
MBNA also has an obligation to ensure the information recorded on Mr Bs credit file 
accurately reflects  the conduct of his account.
Mr B wants  the outstanding debt written off or reduced. But hes had the benefit of the 
money he borrowed and I think  its fair for him to repay it to MBNA. 
Taking everything into account  I think MBNA  has acted fairly throughout and I dont think  its 
done anything  wrong. As a result I dont think I can reasonably ask it to refund  any interest or 
charges, write off or reduce the debt or amend  Mr Bs credit file as hed like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6017676