K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Miss M says Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold  her the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Miss M didnt  have to take out the MPPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  
Lloyds has provided  us with a copy of Miss Ms mortgage application  and I can see that on 
this the MPPI was presented  as an optional product. Miss M has ticked to say she wanted  to 
take out the MPPI and signed the mortgage  application. So I think she was given a choice  
and wanted to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Miss M so it had to check if it was right for her. And 
having considered Miss Ms circumstances at the time, it doesnt seem like the MPPI was 
unsuitable for her. Taking out a mortgage  is a big financial commitment and the 
consequences of not keeping up with repayments can be serious. The MPPI wouldve 
provided Miss M with peace of mind  that her repayments  would  be met if she lost her job or 
was unable to work  due to sickness. Whilst Miss M may have had some sick pay cover and 
savings, the MPPI wouldve meant if she was unable to work she wouldve able to use this to 
meet other living costs  whilst not working  knowing that her mortgage repayments  were 
covered.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss M about the MPPI  wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the MPPI  - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the MPPI cover - so it would  have been  
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the MPPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said - including  what she has said about  the MPPI  
not been fully explained to her. Due to the time that has passed since the sale its difficult  to 
know what was said and Miss M cannot  recall much about the sale.  In circumstances such 
as this, I have to rely on the information  recorded at the time. And whilst we dont have much  
information from the time of sale, I can see that Miss M ticked to take out the MPPI  and it 
was offered as an optional product.  Other optional insurance at the time wasnt  selected. So 
I think Miss M made choices about what she required and she chose to take out the MPPI.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Miss M some of the commission she 
paid on the MPPI back. The Supreme Court ruling  and new rules and guidance dont apply 
to certain types  of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Miss Ms 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage it doesnt apply. So Lloyds  doesnt  need to refund any 
of the commission  Miss M paid for the MPPI she had with the mortgage.
Ref: DRN67636692my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont think  the MPPI was mis-sold and so I dont uphold 
Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6763669