K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2009 Ms B applied for and took out a loan by internet application. At the same time she 
also took out PPI designed to protect her loan repayments in the event she couldnt work  
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy was a regular  monthly premium policy and it cost just under £30 a month.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. In summary they said they didnt Santander made  the 
cost clear enough before Ms B decided to take out the policy. And had it done so, they didnt 
think shed have taken  the policy out. They also said Ms B had an existing medical condition, 
which the policy wouldnt have covered.  But they didnt think Santander made this clear  
enough during the internet application.
Because Santander disagrees the complaint  comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint for the reasons below.
This was a sale by internet. Santander  has provided  example internet  loan application 
screen shots that it says  and I accept  on the balance of probabilities  - are reflective of what 
Ms B wouldve likely seen when she applied for her loan and PPI in 2009.
Ive looked at the screenshots carefully. Having done so Im not persuaded Ms B was fairly  
and reasonably given clear  information about  the cost of PPI at the point she was asked to 
decide if she wanted to take it out. I say this because on the part of the loan application 
where Ms B was asked if she wanted  PPI with her loan  a yes or no option   no cost 
information was provided.
Santander says the cost of the PPI couldnt be provided here because  it was only calculated 
once the loan had been approved and the interest  rate decided.  I accept  this. But I cant see 
this was explained clearly on the PPI section of the internet loan application.
It also says Ms B couldve  used an online calculator on its website, which  it says wouldve  
given an estimate of what the loan repayment with and without PPI wouldve been.  But 
importantly it also says that the calculator  wasnt a mandatory part of the loan application 
process. So the calculator didnt for example appear  on the PPI section of the loan 
application where Ms B was asked if she wanted  to take it out.
Ref: DRN61541892Im mindful that even  if Ms B had used the online calculator (I cant say with any degree  of 
certainty whether  she did or not) the figures provided by the calculator were  only estimates 
and not exact  figures. And as Ive already said, Im not persuaded this was made clear in the 
PPI section of the online  loan application. So I dont think Ms B was fairly  and reasonably 
made aware  of how much  shed be paying  for the PPI when  she was asked and then chose 
to take it out.
Santander has pointed  to the fact that Ms B wouldve been sent a welcome pack, which  
included a letter giving more details of the PPI, including information  on the cost. And its 
sent us an example of what it says it wouldve looked like. 
I accept its likely Ms B received something  like this  after all it contained the credit  
agreement she needed to sign and return to get the loan. But importantly Ms B didnt get this 
information until after shed agreed  to take out the PPI. She wasnt  warned to hold off 
making a decision  about PPI during  the application  stage until the welcome pack  with the full 
details was received.  And she wasnt asked as part of the pack to re-confirm her decision 
about PPI  for example  by ticking a box or giving a signature. 
So overall I dont  think, based on what Ive seen that Ms B was given  clear,  fair and not 
misleading information about the cost of PPI before she agreed to take it out. 
I also think, more likely than not, that Ms B wouldve declined  PPI if shed been given clearer  
information about the cost of the policy. I say this because in light of the cost of PPI and in 
her particular circumstances at the time,  I dont think shed have thought  that the cost and 
benefit proposition  worked for her.
Im mindful that Ms B has also told us she had an existing medical condition  the 
adjudicator also upheld the complaint for this reason. But while  Ive also got concerns about 
this, Ive already  given  sufficient reason to uphold this complaint. So I dont need  to make a 
firm finding on this or expand on my reasoning.  
what Santander needs to do to put things right
Santander should put Ms B in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Ms B the amount  she paid each  month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
If Santander has already paid Ms B back  some of the money she paid for PPI in relation 
to high commission and profit  share  then it can deduct this from the amount it owes  her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Ms B a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN61541893my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint,  so 
Santander UK Plc should put things right for Ms B in accordance with the calculation above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6154189