K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the valuation that was carried out on a property for a mortgage 
application to Aldermore Bank  Plc. The valuation came in a lot lower  than expected,  
meaning Aldermore  lent Mr D less than he had applied for. Mrs D, who Mr D has authorised  
to complain on his behalf,  says the reduced  lending has forced  Mr D to use credit cards, at 
great expense, to fund improvements. Hes also unhappy with how the surveyor  who valued 
the property behaved during the inspection. All of our dealings here have been with Mrs D.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, 
it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the 
outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left out a 
lot of the detail  is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer  when  my decision is published.
Mr D was looking for a mortgage on property above  commercial premises, valued  at £550,000. 
His broker obtained an illustration from Aldermore for a mortgage of £330,000. The application 
went in, and Mr D paid a valuation fee of £770.  Aldermore instructed a firm Ill call E to carry 
out the valuation. Mr D has said that during his visit to the property, Es surveyor was rude and 
uncooperative. Hes also said and that the surveyor incorrectly reported the property as having 
one bathroom  when it has two, and that it had an 85-year lease when in fact a new, extended 
lease was about to be created. Worse still, the surveyor initially  declined  to give the property a 
value for mortgage  purposes, saying  that most lenders choose not to lend on properties  above 
commercial premises.
When Mr D complained, Aldermore informed the surveyor that it was one of the lenders that 
would accept a property above  commercial  premises as security for a mortgage.  The surveyor 
revised his report,  giving a valuation of £350,000 for mortgage purposes, but didnt amend the 
number of bathrooms. Based on the valuation given, Aldermore wasnt prepared to lend Mr D 
the full amount hed applied for. It issued an offer of £210,000 plus fees,  which Mr D accepted,  
and the mortgage completed. 
Soon after that, a second complaint was made, that the valuation was too low, thus restricting 
the amount Mr D could  borrow. Aldermore rejected this complaint, and so it was referred to us, 
and looked at by one of our investigators. She noted that Aldermore had offered to refund part 
of Mr Ds valuation fee and compensation for his time and trouble. In total, it offered Mr D £500;  
as I understand  it, Mr D accepted this by phone. The investigator  thought  Aldermore had dealt 
fairly with Mr Ds complaint and didnt recommend any further  redress.  Mrs D has asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN60147402Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought  on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect,  Mrs D is 
bringing the complaint on M Ds behalf,  as his representative.
But I must explain that, although  Mrs D is representing Mr D, it is Mr D who is Aldermores 
customer. Mrs Ds role is to bring Mr Ds complaint on his behalf,  in the same way that other 
consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant  to represent them in a complaint. But this 
does not entitle Mrs D to air her own grievances about Aldermore, because she is not its 
customer; her role is limited to putting  forward Mr Ds complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence  that Mrs D has expressed her own concerns about  
what she perceives to be Aldermores failings  and I do not doubt  her strength of feeling  
about this. But because Mrs D is not Aldermores customer, this final decision  is limited to 
consideration of Mr Ds complaint about  Aldermore  and how its alleged acts and/or 
omissions have impacted  on him.
Mr Ds property was valued for mortgage  purposes by the surveying firm E, as instructed by 
Aldermore. With a small number of exceptions, none  of which  apply here, the activities  of 
surveying firms arent covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.  So I can make  no 
findings here on the appropriateness or otherwise  of the surveyors  conduct.  I would, for the 
sake of completeness, say that the surveyor did not represent or act as agent  for Aldermore, 
so I cant fairly hold Aldermore responsible for how the surveyor behaved.
Aldermores duty to Mr D was to appoint a suitably qualified and competent  surveyor to carry 
out the valuation. Provided it did that, and I am satisfied it did in Mr Ds case, it was entitled 
to rely on the surveyors opinion  when  assessing whether and on what terms to approve 
Mr Ds mortgage application.   
In this case, the surveyor, in the first instance, found the property to be over a shop, and 
concluded it would not be acceptable  as security for a loan. Having reached that conclusion, 
it seems reasonable  to me that the surveyor concluded there  was no practical need for him 
to provide a statement of his opinion of the propertys value for mortgage purposes.  
Once Aldermore  had let the surveyor know it does lend on properties over commercial 
premises, the surveyor then did provide  a statement of his opinion  of the propertys value for 
mortgage purposes. That was £350,000,  and on receiving that opinion, Aldermore did what 
Id expect it to do; that is, rely on it to decide  how much to lend to Mr D. It wasnt under any 
obligation to challenge E on the valuation; not least because it doesnt  have the expertise to 
do so. Thats  why lenders rely on qualified professionals in the first place.
I have not  because I have  no power  to do so  considered whether the surveyors opinion 
was fair or not. If Mr D wishes to pursue this further, he may wish to consider obtaining legal 
advice on whether he has any recourse against the surveyor directly.  All I can consider  here 
is whether Aldermore has treated Mr D fairly.  For the reasons I have set out, I am satisfied it 
has done so. 
Ref: DRN60147403As far as the fee is concerned, I understand  Mr Ds frustration, but the purpose of the 
surveyors report was to allow Aldermore  to assess the suitability of the property as security 
for the mortgage  he was applying for. Although, ultimately the outcome was not what  he was 
hoping for, Mr D has received the service he paid for, albeit part of that was refunded to him. 
In the circumstances, I cannot fairly  require Aldermore to refund the rest of the fee.
I make  one last observation. Whatever dissatisfaction Mr D might have now with the 
valuation and its impact  on the amount Aldermore was prepared  to lend him, its important to 
keep in mind that he did go ahead with the mortgage from Aldermore. He could, had he 
chosen to do so, aborted the application  and applied to a new lender in the hope  that any 
valuation it commissioned might result  in him being offered more money. 
I fully understand  that Mr D might have had his own reasons for going ahead  with the 
mortgage as offered  by Aldermore. It was his right to do that, but it was also,  ultimately, his 
choice to do that; and Mr D has to accept the consequences of the choice he made.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Aldermore Bank  Plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, or Mrs D on 
his behalf, to accept or reject my decision before  23 April 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6014740