K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about the mismanagement of his pension funds following advice he was 
given by Emiso  Ltd (an appointed representative  of ValidPath Limited),  to transfer his 
personal pensions  to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). He considers the investments 
made within the SIPP were unsuitable.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint to both parties on 2 June 2020.  The  
background and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I didnt think  it should  
be upheld were set out in that decision.  
I invited Mr W and ValidPath to provide any further evidence  and arguments  that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. ValidPath  said that it accepted my 
provisional decision.  Mr  W said that he disputed the decision. He said he was insistent on 
his position, albeit he didnt have any further evidence  to provide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  attached.  
I understand Mr Ws position on the matter and that he feels strongly  that hes been wrongly 
advised and suffered losses as a result. However in this complaint  I am only considering the 
actions of ValidPath. And for the reasons I explained, in the particular circumstances of this 
case, I dont think  ValidPath caused the losses that Mr W has claimed.
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons outlined  above and in my provisional decision,  my final decision 
is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN62562002Copy of provisional  decision
background
In February 2013 Mr W was introduced to an adviser  from Emiso  Ltd (by persons  working for an 
unregulated company  at that time) to give advice on transferring his two personal pensions  to a SIPP.
Following an initial conversation the adviser  e-mailed  Mr W on 28 February 2013 to
confirm that it was Mr Ws intention  to consolidate his two pensions and use some of his funds to 
invest in a foreign exchange  managed account.
A Risk Profile Questionnaire was completed and this recorded  Mr Ws tolerance to risk as 7/8 on a 
scale of 1 to 10 (10 being the high level of risk). A fact find, dated 13 March 2013  noted that Mr W had 
existing pensions valued at £19,118 and £60,220.
A pension  transfer  report, dated 11 April 2013, provided  analysis and comparisons of projected 
pension funds  between  the existing pension schemes and the proposed  SIPP at age 65, using 5%, 
7% and 9%. These showed  the original plans  were projected  to provide slightly higher benefits at 
retirement date than the new proposed SIPP. However, the summarised combined projections 
showed (incorrectly) that the SIPP would provide a higher fund value at the higher 9% growth rate.
A suitability  letter dated 12 April 2013 said, amongst other things:
Our discussion of your needs and priorities centred on your interest in using  part of your pension 
funds to invest in a particular asset,  that being a managed account. The aforementioned account is 
managed by a wealth  management company  called  and they, by way of power of attorney will 
trade the account on your / trustees behalf. I understand  that the instruments traded  within the 
account are foreign exchange and contracts for difference (CFDs).
Fund/Investment Selection   due to your current circumstances you wish to invest  in specific 
investment areas that are more aligned to your requirements.  I would  point out that your current  
provider does  not provide  access to such specific investment areas. 
The suitability letter said new arrangement would  need to perform better by 1.1% to
improve on the existing arrangements. It went onto say:
During our discussions you indicated that, for this investment, you would have a capacity for loss of 
around 20% of fund value. This is an indication of the amount  you could afford to lose if markets etc. 
do not perform as anticipated. You confirmed  that you could afford to lose this amount without it 
seriously affecting your standard  of living. You also confirmed that you have sufficient 
emergency/liquid funds.
I recommend that you consider establishing a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) Plan offered by 
[the SIPP  Provider]. A key facts document and illustration  of projected fund values at proposed 
retirement age 65 accompanies this letter.
The funds recommended  below are designed to fit your model asset allocation  and are based on an 
assessment of purely the monies being invested, and do not take into account  your existing  
investments.
The nature of your enquiry  is based on a transfer from your present  pension arrangement to a SIPP 
that will accommodate a specific  investment. This investment is a managed account  which trades in 
foreign exchange and contracts for difference. These instruments are of a highly  volatile nature. I 
would advise that a product  of this nature does not account for more than 10% of your invested  
portfolio and should sit within a diversified portfolio. 
Ref: DRN62562003The purpose  of this investment is to provide the potential for over and above average investment 
returns and as such is exposed to equivalent  downside  risk.
Fund Selection 
I have selected the following  funds having considered your attitude to risk and model asset  allocation, 
as detailed above. Details on each fund and the investment  methodology  of the fund managers  is 
contained within Key Features Document and product literature presented to you previously.
In summary the recommendation  was to invest £32,000 in Fixed Interest Funds,  £4,860  in Property 
Funds, £22,500 in UK Equity Funds, £10,000 in a Developed  Markets Equity Fund and £11,000 in 
Emerging Markets Funds.
The adviser  sent the SIPP application form to the provider along with the relevant enclosures on 22 
April 2013. The SIPP application form, dated 16 April 2013, said that Mr W appointed the adviser as 
the IFA on his SIPP. The application form recorded  that another  regulated firm was appointed as 
investment manager for the SIPP. And it also said:
In order  that [the SIPP provider] can monitor and facilitate the investments you intend to make please  
indicate below the investment you intend to make and the approximate investment amounts.
The investment was in a trading account (CFDs and Foreign Exchange)  for an amount of £8,000.
However, the SIPP provider has confirmed  that £80,000 was subsequently invested  into the trading  
account on 22 May 2013.  And on 22 August 2013 it received Mr Ws instructions to disinvest his 
funds; £71,783.58 was returned to the SIPP  bank account on 23 August 2013.  
On 18 September 2013 Mr W e-mailed the adviser  saying  he wanted the funds sent to another  
regulated firm. Once they were sent they were subsequently invested into unregulated bonds and 
another foreign  exchange  and CFD trading  account.  The new trading  account  and bonds suffered 
significant losses.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and he recommended that it should be upheld. He 
said:
The adviser  had a duty of care to consider the suitability of the overall investment strategy  
and not just to enable the pension  transfer that would facilitate the subsequent investments
Mr W had been introduced by an unregulated person and the adviser  should  have recognised 
the investment  strategy  was specialised and high risk and should  have advised it was 
unsuitable
There were  a number of inconsistencies in the advisers documentation  with incorrect  growth 
projections for the new SIPP arrangement
There was conflicting  information in the risk questionnaire and fact find document  and the 
adjudicator was not persuaded  Mr Ws attitude  to risk was fully established.
ValidPath did not agree  with the adjudicators assessment. It raised  several points including:
The advice to transfer to the SIPP, in order to make specialist investments did not emanate  
from its adviser; that advice predated his involvement  with the client
The advice given was not to engage in speculative  investment activity, but rather  to utilize a 
mainstream, balanced approach  for the majority  of Mr Ws pension savings
Ref: DRN62562004The initial  recommendation was to a SIPP with likely  lower charges than the existing 
pensions. The existing pensions both had a higher-than-average proportion of their 
investment funds sitting in the bottom quartile  of performance tables, over 1, 3 & 5 years
The majority of the investments that caused significant losses occurred after their advisers 
involvement - he was not responsible for those transactions
there was another  regulated firm involved with the management of Mr Ws investments
It didnt  think any errors in the projections would  have had a material influence on Mr Ws 
decision to transfer
Mr W was given  sufficient warnings about the transaction  but was single minded in his belief 
that transferring to consolidate his pension for investment was the only lucrative  and savvy  
way to capitalise on a short-term basis.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
ValidPath has said that the advice to transfer to the SIPP  in order to make specialist  investments 
didnt emanate from its adviser. Whilst I accept that the idea to transfer may have been initiated by the 
unregulated person  its clear from the contemporaneous documentation that the adviser 
recommended the transfer. And the regulator has made it clear  on several  occasions  that in order to 
advise on the suitability of a transfer  an adviser needs to take into account the suitability  of the 
underlying investments. 
However, having said all that, its clear that Mr W was already motivated to transfer. He has said that 
he approached a friend he knew who worked in investments for advice about  moving his pension. My 
understanding is the friend and another person worked  for an investment firm that wasnt regulated 
at that time (I understand  it became regulated at a later date). 
Mr W has said:
I never actually met my financial advisor  who was passed on to me by a third party. 
 I have  been a friend with [the unregulated  person] for a number  of years, when I said I met with 
him in 2013,  I meant that that was the first time I had met with him regarding any financial  matters. 
Beforehand it had just been a friendship.
I had met [the other regulated person]  for the first time when I approached [the friend] about moving 
my pension, but I did have faith that they would look after my money as . was a friend, and didn't 
think that my pension would be at risk investing  through them. 
I want to make it clear that I wanted to move two pension pots to try and get a better investment. I 
had spoken to [the unregulated  friend] regarding  this as I knew that he worked  within investments.  He  
introduced me to [the other unregulated person], as I said I do remember  a telephone conversation  
with [the adviser], but all the investment decisions in the end I put in the hands of [the unregulated 
friend and other  unregulated person]. 
As a friend,  I did have faith that [he] would look after my money, and make sure it was invested as 
best it could be.. The only paperwork I have is what I have supplied you with. I do not know who is 
at fault, the only thing  I know  is that I asked [the unregulated friend] for advice. I presumed  that his 
company did have the relevant qualification and certificates, etc to advise me and make my 
investment as I trusted a friend 
Ref: DRN62562005I think  whats  key here is that Mr W already had a transfer in mind to try and improve  on the 
performance of his existing pensions. And hed approached his friend  who he understood worked in 
investments; albeit he was unlikely to have  been  aware he wasnt regulated to give investment advice 
at that time and shouldnt have been encouraging a transfer.
My understanding is that the adviser was then contacted through the unregulated persons.  The 
adviser should have been aware of the risks presented by unregulated persons pushing  the 
transaction in the background.  He should have clearly  established Mr Ws motivations and objectives  
for transferring. Irrespective of Mr Ws own thinking; the adviser was required  to take into account  all 
Mr Ws objectives  and circumstances and given his own independent view of what was suitable 
advice. That may have  been  not to transfer if he thought it was unsuitable for Mr W in his 
circumstances. 
However here, I think its clear that Mr W was prepared to take risks with his pension for the prospect 
of better returns. And he was being encouraged  by his friend  who worked for an unregulated  
investment company. I think, in the particular circumstances of this case, irrespective of what  the 
adviser said, Mr W was likely to have transferred his pension.  And I note that in his complaint to us Mr 
W focussed  on the unsuitability of the investments themselves rather than on the suitability  (or 
otherwise) of the initial  advice to transfer. 
The adviser  had said  a product of this nature should  not account for more than 10% of your 
invested portfolio and should  sit within a diversified portfolio. And this was consistent with the 
application form that the adviser sent to the SIPP  provider which  said £8,000 was to be invested into 
the trading account.  My understanding is that the investment managers subsequently invested 
£80,000 into the account. And the losses amounted to £8,217 when it was disinvested a short time 
later  so about 10% of the amount invested. Further losses were  suffered over time following 
subsequent investments.
It seems to me that the losses flowed largely  from these later investments that were  made  through 
other regulated  firms   after Emiso Ltds involvement. And where  other regulated  firms were  behind  
those subsequent investment decisions. 
Taking all the circumstances  of this case into account,  Im not persuaded that Emiso Ltd is 
responsible for Mr Ws losses. I think its more likely than not that Mr W would  have transferred 
irrespective of what advice he was given by Emiso Ltd given the influence and encouragement of the 
friend who Mr W placed his trust in.  And as I said above, the majority of the losses suffered by Mr W 
were a result of the subsequent investments arranged by other regulated firms that the adviser  for 
Emiso Ltd wasnt responsible for. If Mr W had invested  the £8,000 as set out on the application form 
sent in by the adviser, his loss when he came out the first trading account in August  2013 would  have 
been limited to around £800.
. 
Clearly I understand that Mr W will be very disappointed  with my findings.  But in the particular  
circumstances here, Im not persuaded  that his complaint  against Emiso Ltd should succeed. 
Mr W may have complaints  against the other regulated firms that were responsible  for the subsequent  
investments. Mr W may wish to contact those firms to pursue  the matter   or the Financial  Services 
Compensation Scheme  (FSCS)  where  that firm has gone into liquidation. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, my provisional decision  is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6256200