K822xcomplaint
Mr G and Miss I complain  that Connells  Limited,  a broker, made errors in relation to their
remortgage, which left them with a shortfall.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, an extract  of which  is 
set out below and forms part of this decision.  So, I wont  repeat  that here. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I intended to uphold Mr G and Miss Is complaint 
and what Connells should do to put matters  right.  
Connells accepted  my provisional decision. Mr G and Miss I said that they didnt completely 
agree with my provisional decision but were  willing to accept  the compensation.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Connells  nor Mr G and Miss I have provided any new evidence  or arguments, I 
see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I uphold Mr G and Miss Is complaint. I think fair compensation for Mr G 
and Miss Is distress and inconvenience is £500.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr G and Miss Is complaint. I require Connells Limited to 
pay Mr G and Miss I total compensation  of £500  in relation to their distress  and 
inconvenience and Ive seen that it has already  arranged to do so. 
I appreciate that by the time Mr G and Miss I receive  this final decision,  they may have 
already received the compensation. But under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask them to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr G and Miss I complain  that Connells  Limited,  a broker, made errors in relation to their 
remortgage, which left them with a shortfall.
background
Ref: DRN67891052In mid-2018,  Mr G and Miss I wanted to remortgage  in order to repay  unsecured credit 
card debt. Connells  initially approached their existing lender for further  borrowing of 
£41,000, which would mean the total they owed under the mortgage was £266,000.  That 
lender wasnt willing  to provide the further borrowing, as it said that the application didnt 
pass its credit score.
Mr G and Miss I say that they wanted to borrow £271,600. They say that a few days  before 
the remortgage was due to complete, they discovered that Connells had applied to the new 
lender for £267,000, not £271,600.
Mr G and Miss I say that Connells offered  to ask the new lender to increase the borrowing to
£271,600 and told them that the lender  wouldnt make further  credit  checks.  The lender 
refused to increase  the amount borrowed to £271,600,  as it said it didnt pass  its credit 
score. The new lender  said it had looked  again  at the original  amount  of £267,000 and it 
failed on credit score too but it agreed to honour the initial  offer, so the remortgage could 
continue. Mr G and Miss I completed  the remortgage with the new lender at £267,000 but 
reserved their positon in relation to the complaint.
Mr G and Miss I say that Connells applied for less than the figure they had agreed. They  say 
they were unaware  that Connells  applied to borrow £267,000 and didnt receive  any 
paperwork. They also complain that during the course of their complaint, it came to light that 
Connells made an error in relation to the early  redemption  charge payable to their previous
lender.
In response to the complaint, Connells identified that it made an error  in relation to the 
early redemption charge  but said it wasnt responsible for the repayment  of Mr G and 
Miss Is debts  as a result of the shortfall.  It offered  Mr G and Mrs I compensation of £350 in 
relation to their distress and inconvenience.
Mr G and Miss I want Connells to pay them  compensation of £4,600 and a refund of 
interest theyve paid on outstanding credit card debt.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Connells had treated Mr G and Miss I unfairly.  She said,  in 
summary, that the new mortgage lender decided how much Mr G and Miss I could borrow  
and it was prepared  to offer £267,000.The  adjudicator didnt think  Mr G and Miss I would 
be able to borrow £271,600. She thought that the compensation  Connells had already 
offered was fair.
Ref: DRN67891053Mr G and Miss I didnt agree with the adjudicator. They said:
The lender  offered  to lend £267,000, as thats the amount Connells applied for.
They were denied  the opportunity to have  their application assessed at the 
higher amount on the first credit  check.
They werent happy to proceed with a remortgage of £267,000 and they initially 
believed that the application  for £271,600  had been made, as they didnt receive  
the key facts document.
They only became  aware of the £4,600 shortfall when the lenders conveyancer  
told them  the amount theyd  receive  on completion.
They knew that the remortgage wouldnt be enough to repay all of their existing debts 
- they wanted to repay credit  card debt and they told Connells that it wouldnt repay  
other personal loans.
The lenders second and third credit  re-scores negatively affected their credit score.
It cant be assumed that because  their previous lender refused their application, 
the new lender  would do the same.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Connells gave Mr G and Miss I advice on their remortgage. It was obliged  to make 
a recommendation  that was suitable,  that is, appropriate for their individual needs 
and circumstances.  I dont think it did that here and Ill explain why.
Connells internal  document  headed  RECORD OF ADVICE  SUITABILITY (RAS) shows  
that Mr G and Miss I wanted to remortgage in order  to consolidate debt on six credit cards. 
The application form shows that the total credit card debt on the six credit  cards amounted 
to £37,652. Their existing mortgage  was £225,000 and they had to pay an early repayment 
charge of around £6,750. So, the minimum they needed to borrow on remortgage was
£269,402.
Connells recommended  that Mr G and Miss I take out a mortgage  of £267,995 (£995 was a 
fee payable to the lender). That wasnt enough  to consolidate Mr G and Miss Is credit  card 
debt. So, the recommendation  wasnt suitable. I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Connells advised Mr G and Miss I that the remortgage wouldnt achieve what they set out 
to do  repay credit card debt on the six credit cards.
Mr G and Miss I say that Connells didnt give them appropriate paperwork and that they 
didnt know it had applied  for a mortgage  of £267,000. Its difficult  for me to establish  at this 
distance exactly what information and documentation Connells gave to Mr G and Miss I 
but that doesnt  change  the outcome. Thats because  the provision of information  doesnt 
make an unsuitable  recommendation  suitable.
Theres nothing on the paperwork Ive seen that shows that it was the intention that 
Connells should apply  for a mortgage of £271,600. But Connells notes include the following:
The Loan Amount field has been amended  please check that all case  
documentation supports this change.
Ref: DRN67891054So, it appears that the loan amount was changed but I dont know  what  the loan amount 
was before the change.  So I cant know for sure whether it was initially  agreed  that Connells 
would apply for a loan of £271,600.
In any event, I dont  think that Mr G and Miss I would have secured a mortgage  of 
£271,600. Their previous lender wasnt prepared to increase their borrowing to £266,000.  
When the new lender  considered their application  for £271,600 it didnt pass  its credit score 
and when it re-scored their application  for £267,000 it didnt pass.
Mr G and Miss I say that they lost the opportunity to have their application for £271,600 
scored on their first application.  Thats  true but based on what Ive seen, I think its unlikely 
that theyd secure an offer of remortgage at £271,600. A lenders underwriting decision is 
based on multiple factors and the number of recent credit  checks may be only one of 
those factors. I dont think that I can safely say that if Connells had applied  initially  for 
£271,600, Mr G and Miss I would have secured that level of borrowing.
Its not appropriate  to direct Connells  to pay Mr G and Miss I £4,600, that is, the difference  
between the amount they wanted to borrow and the amount they actually borrowed.  Thats  
because I dont  think they would have  been able to borrow  £271,600. Its also not 
appropriate to direct Connells to repay the interest  Mr G and Miss I still owe on their 
remaining credit  card debt. Mr G and Miss Is approach to compensation effectively means 
that they would have  the benefit of the additional  money without having to repay  anything. 
I dont think that would  be a fair outcome  here.
Mr G and Miss I suffered disappointment  when they discovered that they couldnt repay all 
of their credit card debt following the remortgage. I think fair compensation for that is £500. 
My understanding is that Connells  has not already paid the £350 it offered in its final 
response. If it has in fact paid that amount, it should pay Mr G and Miss I the balance of 
£150.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr G and Miss Is 
complaint. I intend to direct  Connells  Limited to pay Mr G and Miss I total compensation of
£500 in relation to their distress and inconvenience.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6789105