K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains AXA Insurance  UK Plc unfairly  declined a claim for an escape of water  
she made on her commercial buildings insurance policy. She also complains that the policy 
was avoided.
Miss W is being  represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease Ive referred  to all 
comments and actions  as being those of Miss W.
background
In March 2018 Miss W contacted AXA to make a claim on her policy for an escape of water. 
AXA declined the claim and voided the policy from its inception  as the property  was 
unoccupied when the policy was taken out. AXA said Miss W told it the property was 
occupied at the point of sale,  but that wasnt  the case. It said if shed told it the property was 
unoccupied it wouldnt have provided  the insurance  cover. It thought  Miss W had 
misrepresented the occupancy  of the property.   
Miss W complained to AXA. She said at the time of taking out the policy there  was a tenant 
lined up, so she didnt think shed given  wrong  information. Shed taken out the policy 
specifically to provide  cover for when she rented her house out so she was trying to ensure 
she had the right cover in place. She also said the broker hadnt sent her any policy  
documentation after the sale of the policy,  so she was unaware of any occupancy  terms.
AXA accepted Miss W hadnt deliberately misrepresented the occupancy status of the 
property. But it said it wouldnt have offered cover at the point of sale if it had known the 
property was unoccupied. Because it accepted it wasnt deliberate, AXA returned the 
premiums Miss W had paid. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She thought  AXA had asked  
Miss W a clear  question at the point of sale about  the occupancy  of the property, and her 
answer didnt represent  the situation accurately. She said this counted  as a 
misrepresentation under the Insurance Act 2015.  She was satisfied AXA wouldnt have 
provided cover for Miss Ws property if it had known it was unoccupied. So she thought AXA 
had acted reasonably in declining the claim and voiding the policy.  
Miss W didnt agree.  She said she was an honest  person  trying  to make sure she had the 
proper insurance  cover. She also disputed the property was unoccupied as she lived locally  
and had visited it frequently.  She said if the policy hadnt been  voided, the claim would be 
covered under the policy so it wouldnt be fair for AXA not to deal with the claim.
As Miss W didnt agree, the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. Ill explain why below.
As the landlord  policy is a commercial contract, the relevant law in this area is the Insurance 
Act 2015.  But given  Mrs Ws circumstances I consider it would be fair to assess the 
complaint on the principles of the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
Ref: DRN675074522012 (CIDRA). I say this because Im satisfied Mrs W isnt a professional landlord,  but 
someone who is caught by this law by being  in a position to rent out a property  she owns. 
Under CIDRA, Miss W must take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. One part 
of this is whether  the business asked  a clear question at the point of sale. Having looked at 
the question Miss W was asked, Im satisfied it was clear. She was asked:
is any of the ground floor unoccupied?
She answered no. But that wasnt the case.  Miss Ws property hadnt been  lived in for 
around a year. And whilst I dont doubt she had tenants lined up to move into the property 
soon, the question asked about the current state. So the correct  answer to this question  
should have been yes. 
CIDRA outlines different types  of misrepresentation. In this case  AXA accepts this was a 
carless misrepresentation, which seems  reasonable to me. Whilst I understand the situation  
Miss W found  herself in, the question didnt ask if the property would be occupied  soon. It 
asked about the current state of the property and Miss W should  have said it was 
unoccupied.
Under CIDRA, a careless misrepresentation allows AXA to do what it would have done had 
Miss B provided the correct information.
AXA has shown that if Miss W had said the property was unoccupied, or temporarily 
unoccupied (which was another option  at the point of sale), it wouldnt have offered cover. 
So I dont  think AXA has acted unfairly  in now voiding the policy. But I would expect it to 
refund the premium  she made, which I can see it has done.  
Miss W has said the property wasnt really empty, as defined by the policy terms. She said 
she and her partner visited frequently to carry out works and check  in on the property and 
sometimes even stayed  overnight.  But AXA hasnt  declined the claim on the basis of the 
policy terms; its declined it because of a misrepresentation at the point of sale.  And for the 
reasons given above I think  its acted fairly  in doing  so. So whether or not Miss W met the 
policy terms is irrelevant to whether the claim should be paid in this instance.
Miss W has said her property would have been  occupied when the leak happened, but the 
tenants pulled out at the last minute. She said her broker hadnt  provided her with any policy 
documents so she didnt  know shed have to inform AXA of this. In this complaint I can only 
look at the actions of AXA. Any concerns about  the brokers  actions  would need  to be raised 
with it directly. 
I realise Miss Ws home  has been  extensively damaged by the leak,  but for the reasons 
given above I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably in declining  the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.
Ref: DRN67507453Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6750745