K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr T has been  joined in this complaint by his insolvency practitioner, Mr H. However  for the 
purposes of this decision I will mainly  be referring  just to Mr T.
background
Mr T took out the PPI during the same  meeting in branch in which he applied  for the credit  
card in 2007.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold Mr Ts complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr T says he didnt  know that PPI had been added to the credit  card account, so it was 
added without his knowledge or consent. Mr T thought he had applied  for the card and policy  
over the internet. However Barclays has provided evidence  that it was a branch sale.  So its 
clear that Mr T doesnt have any particular recollection of the sale,  which  isnt surprising 
given how long ago it took place. From  what we know of Barclays  in branch sales processes 
at the time, the adviser would have made it clear that the policy was optional. Ive thought  
about what Mr T has said, but on balance I think he probably decided  to take out the policy, 
knowing that he didnt  have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so. 
Barclays advised Mr T to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending  it to him, in needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ts circumstances at the time, the 
policy was suitable  for him.
Mr T couldnt remember if hed have received any sick pay from the employer he was with at 
the time.  Regardless,  the policy would have  paid out on top of any sick pay and potentially  
for longer than Mr T would have received full pay for. And Mr T has told us that he would 
have only had a small amount  of savings at the time. So it seems to me that he had a need 
for the policy and could  have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time. 
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide  as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected  by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr T had an interest  in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont 
think that more information would have  caused him to change  his mind.
This means  that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T (actually to his IVA supervisor as 
I understand it) because: 
Ref: DRN64354122When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr T about  that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 August  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6435412