K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement
with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse). 
background
In October  2017 Mr K entered into a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse to acquire a 
seven-year-old used car, for around £8,000. The car at the time of purchase had a recorded 
mileage of 82,373  miles.
In January 2018, Mr K complained to the dealership  where he bought the car as it was 
advertised as having Bluetooth, but it didnt have  this facility. The dealership paid Mr K £220 
compensation and offered him free oil and filter service, as well as an MOT  at cost price of 
£25 to be paid by Mr K. Mr K was happy  and accepted this resolution. Later in 
November 2018  Black Horse also offered Mr K a further £25 for any distress and 
inconvenience he may have encountered. 
In August  2018,  Mr K booked a service  at the dealership where he purchased  his car. In 
September 2018, after the service, he emailed  the dealership saying that the fan was 
rubbing on a plastic  pipe and causing  damage. In the email,  he wrote that, when he was 
getting the service  done, one of the mechanics told him that they couldn't  put the cover back  
properly and that Mr K believes  that this relocated  the position  of some of the parts. 
The dealership replied to Mr K saying that their service team pointed out to Mr K, on the day 
of service (in August 2018), that the car had impact damage affecting the under tray and 
surrounding areas. They wrote that it looks to be speed bump  with scuffs on underside  of 
front bumper and explained that if Mr K would like this repaired, he would have to pay for it 
himself. 
Mr K was not happy with this and replied  that the car was sold to him with this damage, and 
he didnt have any accident that couldve caused it. Mr K says that due to the damage he 
cant even use the air conditioner in the car as the fan keeps  rubbing  against other parts.  
 
Towards the end of September 2018, Mr K contacted Black Horse, and in October  2018,  
Mr K had the car inspected by a third-party  garage. At this time the car had a recorded 
mileage of 93,891.  The report says that there where  many  bent and broken parts  evident, 
the front bumper  was originally a dark colour (black  or dark blue)  and has been repainted 
white, the bonnet has been  repaired and repainted in original  colour, the front bumper crash  
bar is heavily bent and twisted still with large  amounts of rust evident, the front panel and 
radiator support brackets are also broken and misaligned, causing the radiator pipe to rub on 
some of the vehicles other components.. 
The report  goes on to say that It would be my opinion  that that was old damage and most 
likely from before the customer purchased it, as he has not crashed the car himself,  i 
understand that the car is hpi clear and shows no evidence of being involved in an accident,  
but it has clearly been involved in one that hasn't been recorded  and has subsequently been 
repaired to a very poor standard, i would have thought any inspection to this vehicle before it 
was sold would highlight  some concerns as it is clearly visible without taking the bumper off 
that things are not correct with this vehicles  front end.
Ref: DRN60212562In November 2018, Black Horse wrote to Mr K saying  he shouldve  reported the accident 
damage sooner;  rather than 11 months after purchasing the car and covering 11,000 miles. 
They say from the photographs provided the damage regarding  the cosmetic  issues  were  
clearly visible and they believe they would  have been noticed  at the point of sale if they were  
present. Also,  Black  Horse discredited  the report  provided by Mr K because  they say it 
included incorrect information. The report says that Mr K has never  had an accident while 
they say he has confirmed to them that the car did have some cosmetic  damage which  has 
since been repaired. Regarding the Bluetooth,  Black Horse said that the dealership  has 
provided evidence  that Mr K accepted  the resolution that was offered, which  they thought 
was a reasonable outcome, but in addition they offered to pay Mr K £25 for any distress  and 
inconvenience he may have encountered.
Mr K says the cosmetic  damage was on the side and that he had no accident that involved 
the front of the car. Unhappy with Black  Horses response he brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  not be upheld. He thought  that the damage 
most likely happened  after Mr K took delivery.  
Mr K disagreed with the adjudicator. 
So the complaint was been passed  to me to decide.  After reviewing the case, I issued a 
provisional decision on 20 May 2020. In the provisional decision I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is unclear or in dispute, I
reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  which  is to say, what I consider most
likely to have happened based on the evidence available and the surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr K acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which  is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Black Horse  is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing  with
complaints about  their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  covers hire purchase agreements  such as the one 
Mr K entered into. Under a hire purchase  agreement, there is an implied term that the goods 
supplied will be of satisfactory quality.  The CRA  says that goods will be considered of 
satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory  taking into account  the description  of the goods, the price paid and other 
relevant circumstances.
In Mr Ks case  the car was used, with a price of around £8,000.  It had covered
around 82,000  miles and was approximately seven years old when he acquired it. So, the 
car had travelled a reasonable distance and its reasonable  to expect there to be some  wear 
to it as a result, and Id have different expectations  of it compared to a brand-new car. But 
given the age, mileage and price  paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect anything  significant to be wrong shortly  after it was acquired.  
Ref: DRN60212563Mr K has emailed  us pictures  of the damage  and the report done in October 2018 by a third-
party garage. From the pictures  and the report,  it is clear that the damage  is significant with 
lots of parts damaged. Taking everything into account  including  the price paid, the age and 
usage of the car, and the size of the damage, as seen on the pictures,   Im not persuaded 
the car was of satisfactory  quality  if this was the condition of the car when Mr K took delivery. 
So, the question  is - was this damage  caused  before  Mr K took delivery of the car or did it 
happen, while the car was already in his possession?
The HPI records available for the car do not specify any recorded accidents  before or after 
the sale, so it is not evident from these when the damage occurred; as most likely an 
accident has not been reported when it happened. 
Black Horse  say there is no evidence to indicate  that the car was not of satisfactory quality 
or fit for purpose at the point of delivery.  Theyve  mentioned that based on the pictures 
provided the cosmetic  issues are clearly visible and would have been noticed at the point of 
sale if they were present.  They  also say that Mr K shouldve reported the accident damage  
sooner; rather than 11 months  after purchasing  the car and covering 11,000  miles.  So, Ive 
considered this and the report from the third-party  garage which  Mr K provided. The report  
says it is clearly visible without taking the bumper  off that things are not correct with this 
vehicles front end..  Taking all of this into consideration,  and looking at the photos,  I think  
most likely the dealership  and/or Mr K wouldve spotted the damage at the point of delivery. 
And based on this I think most likely Mr K ought  to have become aware of it sooner, rather 
than approximately  11 months after the point  of delivery. 
Also I think  most likely any check or inspection, such as an MOT, wouldve highlighted this 
damage. The car passed its MOT inspection in August 2017 with a recorded mileage at the 
time of 82,341.  This was approximately 2 months before the sale to Mr K and from this date 
the car was only used  for another 32 miles. I know that the damage couldve still happened  
during these two months. So, Ive considered the usage of the car during that period versus 
the 11 months before Mr K raised  the issue with Black Horse.  During this time Mr K had 
driven the car for approximately 11,000  miles. So, Ive taken into consideration the high 
number of miles the car was driven during  the time Mr K had it, compared to the 32 miles 
since the MOT  test. And I think it is more likely that the damage  was sustained during the 11 
months Mr K had the car, because it had a much greater exposure to potential damage-
causing occurrences during 11,000  miles, rather than during the period where  the car was 
only driven for 32 miles.
Mr K says that he didnt  know about the damage earlier and says the report  he provided, 
from the third-party garage, says the damage is old and most likely from before the car was 
acquired by him.  Black Horse have discredited  this report because  they say it includes 
incorrect information about Mr K never having crashed the car himself. They say Mr K 
confirmed to them that the car did have some  cosmetic  damage,  which has since been 
repaired. Mr K told us that this cosmetic damage  occurred  in April 2018. He says the left 
passenger side panel  above  the front left tire was damaged.  He said it cost about £350 to fix, 
but he doesnt have any receipts.  He says the repairs  were done by a friend who was an ex-
colleague of his. Mr K says he had no accident that involved  the front of the car.
But looking  at the report from the third-party  garage it says: It would be my opinion  that that 
was old damage  and most likely  from before the customer purchased  it, as he has not 
crashed the car himself.  So to me it looks like the third party garage based their opinion on 
the damage being old due to the fact that Mr K told them that he hasnt done any damage to 
the car himself. And I appreciate that Mr K says that the damage caused in his possession  
Ref: DRN60212564was to the side of the car, and that he had no accident that involved the front of the car. But 
the damage from April 2018  is on the panel close to the damage in question, and he has not 
disclosed this to the third-party garage  to take into consideration. Based on this I cant say 
that most  likely the damage happened  before Mr K took delivery. 
Whilst I realise that my decision  will come as a disappointment to Mr K, looking at all the 
evidence available  to me I think, on balance, the damage happened after he took delivery of 
the car, and therefore the car was most likely of satisfactory quality when Mr K took 
possession of it. 
I know that initially Mr K was also unhappy  about  the car not having Bluetooth. To resolve 
this part of the complaint the dealership paid him £220 compensation and offered him free oil 
and filter service, as well as an MOT at cost price of £25 to be paid by Mr K. Mr K was happy 
and accepted this resolution. And later Black Horse offered an additional £25 for any distress 
and inconvenience  he may have encountered. Considering the circumstances, I think  what  
has been offered  is fair and reasonable.   
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend  to ask Black Horse Limited to pay Mr K the additional 
£25 offered, and I intend not to award any further compensation. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments  or information  theyd like 
me to consider by 10 June 2020.
Black Horse  didnt provide  a response. 
Mr K replied  disagreeing  with my provisional decision and provided further submissions. I will 
address these in my findings below.
my findings
Ive carefully considered  all of the available evidence and arguments provided by Mr K and 
Black Horse  (including the responses provided to my provisional  decision)  to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made several points after my provisional decision and I will address them each  in 
turn below. Although Ive summarised and only set out the main  points of his responses,  I 
can confirm that Ive read and carefully  considered all of the arguments he has made.
Mr K is still adamant that the damage was there before he took delivery of the car. He says 
that he is not an expert or experienced  in buying cars, and if his mechanic  didnt  point it out 
to him, he still wouldnt know the damage  was there. I understand that he is not an expert 
and even though he wouldnt know the full extent of the damage,  I think most likely he 
wouldve notice that something wasnt right with the car sooner than when he did. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision,  the report from the third-party garage,  which Mr K 
provided, says it is clearly visible without taking the bumper off that things are not correct 
with this vehicles  front end, and looking at the photos, I think  most likely the dealership 
and/or Mr K wouldve spotted the damage at the point of delivery. So, I still think  that most 
likely Mr K ought to have become aware  of the damage sooner, rather  than approximately  
11 months after taking  delivery of the car.
Ref: DRN60212565Mr K says that in my provisional  decision I mentioned that Im not satisfied with the report  
from the third-party garage  he has provided. But I didnt say that Im not satisfied with the 
report. I said that to me it looks like the third-party  garage based their opinion  on the damage 
being old because  Mr K told them that he hasnt  done any damage to the car himself.  Then,  I 
went on to say, that I appreciate that Mr K says the damage caused in his possession was to 
the side of the car, and that he had no accident  that involved the front of the car. But the 
damage from April 2018  is on the panel close to the damage in question, and he has not 
disclosed this to the third-party garage  to take into consideration. And, because of this, I 
couldnt say that most likely the damage  happened before Mr K took delivery.  So, I have 
taken the report  from the third-party garage, along  with all the other  evidence  provided by 
both parties, into consideration and Ive commented  on various aspects of the report  in my 
provisional decision. 
Mr K goes on to say that he originally asked Black Horse to send their own expert  to check 
the damage. He feels that Black  Horse shouldve provided their own report  at that time. He 
doesnt feel that he should  have  paid for the report out of his own pocket. Ive considered  
this, but due to the amount of time that has passed (approximately 11 months), and the 
amount of miles Mr K drove the car for (approximately 11,000 miles) before he raised the 
issue about the car damage with Black  Horse, I dont think  it would be fair or reasonable to 
expect them to be responsible for the report.     
Mr K says our service  should be supporting consumers like him, who dont have a lot of 
experience of buying valuables. He feels I should be looking at his complaint in a different 
light. He says that everyone is under  a great  deal of pressure,  and he feels that Im trying to 
dismiss his complaint without trying  to sort the situation out in good  faith.  While I sympathise  
with the situation Mr K finds  himself in, I must remain impartial. Our service is impartial to, 
and independent of, consumers and businesses. We resolve disputes between financial  
businesses and consumers, and we dont represent  either party. We weigh up the evidence 
presented and reach our conclusions based on merits  and circumstances of each case.  
So, having  reviewed everything provided on this case I still think,  on balance, the damage 
happened after Mr K took delivery of the car, and therefore the car was most likely of 
satisfactory quality when Mr K took possession of it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that Black 
Horse Limited should pay Mr K the additional £25 offered, and I dont award any further 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6021256