K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Mrs E says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs E says that she didnt  know that the PPI was optional, and that it was compulsory. She 
says that she now realises she couldve declined the PPI without impacting on getting  her 
credit card. 
Barclays has provided a copy of Mrs Es credit  card application, and I can see on this that 
the PPI is presented as an optional product, and has been  selected. Mrs E has then signed 
the application from, agreeing to the information  on it.
We sent Mrs E a copy of the credit card application, and she has said that while the 
signature on the application  is hers, the rest of the application was completed by Barclays.  
She says theres  no evidence that she was given  enough time to read and understand what 
had been completed on her behalf.  
But Mrs E was Mrs E was entering in to a financial  agreement  so it was her responsibility 
to read over the application check what she was agreeing  to. And I think that Barclays  did 
enough to show  that the PPI was optional, and Mrs E has agreed  to take it out.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs E, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs E about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
Ive thought about everything Mrs E has said, including that shes said about  the handwritten 
note on the application from that says pre-approved. She has concerns that the agreement 
may have  been  completed via a different sales channel  and wonders if there  were  any call 
recordings.
But Barclays  has confirmed that the sale took place in branch  (and the application form 
supports this). It is also not unusual for a financial business to make a choice to 
Ref: DRN62495792pre-approve customers for certain products before an application has even been made. 
And as Ive said above, the application from presented the policy as optional  and Ive 
found that Mrs E had a choice in taking  it out. So this point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6249579