K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that his personal information was included in a data protection  breach at 
Shawbrook Bank Limited (SB).
background
Mr C says hes very concerned about  the risk of misuse of his information to make  fraudulent 
applications for financial products in his name. He says he agrees the £100 compensation 
SBs offered him would be a suitable  settlement  if it was known for a fact that his information 
wouldnt be misused in future. But he says just because this hasnt happened yet, that 
doesnt mean it wont be next week, next month,  or even next year. And he says he would 
be left to deal with the consequences. 
So, he says, taking these  circumstances into account, £100 compensation doesnt seem  
appropriate. 
Our investigator thought Mr Cs complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions. So, the matters  been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see when Mr C complained about this matter  to SB, it acknowledged  its security protocols 
had apparently fallen down in this instance  and it offered him its sincere apologies. It told 
him its been assured by the third party who brought the data breach to its attention  that no 
copies of the data have  been made and it hasnt been used for unauthorised purposes. And 
SB told Mr C it believes the likelihood  of fraudulent activity following the incident to be 
extremely low.
I also see SB offered to cover any charges Mr C incurred in checking his credit  file at the 
credit reference agencies for up to six months, if he wished to obtain reassurance that his 
personal data hadnt  been misused.  And it paid him £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Ive not seen any information indicating  Mr Cs personal data has in fact been misused. And, 
bearing this in mind, Im satisfied SBs response  to this situation  in acknowledging and 
apologising for what happened; agreeing  to cover the cost of Mr C checking his credit  file for 
six months; and paying him £100  for his distress  and inconvenience is in line with what this 
service would expect  in a situation of this nature and is reasonable, in the circumstances. 
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Cs complaint.
 
Ref: DRN62028402my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Shawbrook  Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6202840