K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)mis led her about the amount 
of time it would take to clear an international cheque she needed for a house purchase. She 
would like rental fees incurred as a result refunded. And compensation for distress and 
anxiety.
background
Mrs L says NatWest told her in branch that an international  (US Dollars  USD) cheque she 
deposited on 12 December 2018 would take 28 days to clear. But she says didnt get the 
funds until 8 February 2019.  Mrs L said if she had known  it would  take that long she would 
have flown to the US, deposited the cheque into her US account, and then made  an 
international wire transfer. She says had she done  so she would have had the money  within 
days not months.
Mrs L says she was renting a house and the money  was for a house purchase.  She says as 
a result of the delay  she incurred an additional  two months  rent totalling £1,950
NatWest accepted it had misinformed Mrs L so it credited her account  with £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our adjudicator found NatWest accepted it had given Mrs L wrong information but he felt the 
£150 compensation it offered was fair.
Mrs L didnt accept this. She felt we should address NatWests faults asking if we had forced 
NatWest to change  its website and customer service, also if we had asked  NatWest  to 
advise customers of the correct timescales  and if the branch concerned had received any 
punishment. She also wanted to know what actions Nat West had since  taken to 
improve/change things.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L has made a number of comments as to what she might expect this service to do as a 
result of her complaint. I need  to make it clear that our role is not to punish businesses,  nor 
is it within our remit to tell businesses to change their policies and procedures. We look at 
individual complaints and consider if the business  has done anything  wrong,  and, if so, what 
we might be able to do to put things rights.
I have however noted that in its final response letter NatWest did say it had given feedback  
to the branch in question so hopefully the same mistake wont occur again.
I dont think there is any dispute that it took NatWest  longer to credit Mrs Ls money to her 
account than she believed it would from her conversations in branch. 
Its very difficult  to know what is said in conversations  in branch as these are not recorded.  
NatWest has accepted it gave Mrs L wrong information which I think  is fair.  It has confirmed 
its timescale for such credits  can be 10-12  weeks. So Mrs L was never going to have  access 
to her money within 28 days.
Ref: DRN68005362I understand that Mrs L does now have the money  so the main issue  seems  to be the level 
of compensation.  NatWest has credited  Mrs Ls account with £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience. Mrs L would like her additional  rental costs  covered.
Mrs L hasnt given us any evidence to show what her rental costs  are. But even if she had I 
am inclined to agree  with both our adjudicator and NatWest on this.
If Mrs L had been  given the correct  information  in branch she would have known she 
wouldnt have had access to the money for 10-12 weeks so she  would have needed  to 
cover her living costs during this time.
Mrs L has told us had she know the timescale she would have flown to the US to deposit her 
money and then make an international  transfer from there. She hasnt given us any 
information as to what this would have  cost. But given the transfer was made in mid 
December she would  have been  travelling in the Christmas Holiday season so I imagine the 
costs may well have equalled,  if not outweighed,  her additional  rent.
I cant be sure what Mrs L would have done if she had understood the transfer would take 
10-12 weeks  to make when she first enquired. She might have chosen to go to the US; she 
might have chosen to go ahead  using  NatWest. It seems to me either way she would have 
incurred costs so I dont think its fair to expect NatWest to cover these.
I do believe some  compensation for the inconvenience is fair. In the circumstances I believe 
the £150 NatWest  has credited is reasonable for the inconvenience.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6800536