K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a van that was supplied to him under  a hire purchase agreement  with 
Blue Motor  Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A used  van was supplied to Mr A under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance 
that he electronically signed in January 2019.  He had some issues  with the van in January 
and February 2019 so it was returned to the dealer for repairs  but Mr A returned  the van to 
the dealer in April 2019 because of a noise  that was coming  from it. No fault was found but a 
crank pulley was replaced. Mr A complained  to Blue Motor Finance and it arranged for the 
van to be inspected by an independent  expert. The expert said that there  was a noise 
coming from the van but it was a maintenance issue. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Blue Motor  
Finances response  so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said that it was 
evident that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality  when  it was supplied to Mr A and that he 
should be allowed  to reject it. So she recommended that Blue Motor Finance should: settle 
the hire purchase  agreement and collect the van; mark  the credit  file as settled; refund the 
deposit and the monthly  payments made  since April 2019 (all with interest);  and pay him 
£100 to recognise  the distress and inconvenience that hed been caused.
Blue Motor  Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that:
the van passed an MOT test in January 2019  when  its mileage  was recorded as 
75,237 miles showing  it was fit for purpose  at the point of sale;
Mr A had issues with the van in January  and February 2019 and the dealer replaced 
the EGR  valve and fuel filter  which was accepted by Mr A and was the first 
opportunity to repair the van under  The Consumer Rights Act 2015;
Mr A reported a noise  coming from the van in April 2019 and it was checked  but no 
fault was found  but Mr A asked for the crank pulley to be replaced;
theres still a noise issue but a manufacturers dealer and an independent expert 
have said that its a result of early stages of wear  and tear of the timing chain rather  
than a manufacturing or material  defect;
the independent expert says that the van was fit for purpose at the point of sale; and
it doesnt feel that its acted unfairly or that there are any grounds for rejection as the 
van isnt faulty  and thereve been no failed repairs. 
Mr A says that he paid £250 to reserve the van and an advance  payment of £500 and hes 
provided evidence  of two payments of £250 to the dealer and a cash withdrawal of £250  
which he says was paid to the dealer. Blue Motor Finance says that Mr A paid a £500 
deposit for the van as shown on the invoice and he paid £246  for an extended warranty   
but its agreed to refund  the warranty payment to him.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor  Finance, as the supplier of the van, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend on a number of factors,  including  the 
Ref: DRN60300422age and mileage  of the van and the price  that was paid for it. The van that was supplied to 
Mr A was about four years old, had been driven  for approximately  75,000 miles and had a 
price of £8,000.  Satisfactory quality also covers durability which  means that the components 
within the van must be durable  and last a reasonable  amount of time  but exactly  how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
The van was supplied  to Mr A in January 2019.  He contacted the dealer  about issues  with 
the van in January and February  2019  and the EGR  valve and fuel filter were  replaced. Mr A 
returned the van to the dealer in April 2019  because there was a noise coming from the van. 
No fault could be found but the dealer  replaced  the crank pulley at Mr As request. Mr A then 
complained to Blue Motor Finance and it arranged for the van to be inspected by an 
independent expert  in June 2019. The vans mileage was recorded as being 76,732 miles  
so Mr A had driven less than 2,000  miles in the van in five months.  The report  concluded: 
The engine does  display noise that would be consistent with the early stages of 
timing chain wear. The reported  episode of clatter  from the engine would also be 
consistent with intermittent impairment of the hydraulic chain tensioner.
At this stage, serious problems have not been observed, however the timing  chain  
and tensioners undoubtedly  would benefit  from replacement at the earliest 
opportunity to prevent consequential  engine damage; and said that:
 this is a maintenance issue rather than a material defect, this would  not impinge 
on the vehicle  being fit for its intended  purpose  or being of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale.
Mr A had complained  to the dealer about issues  with the van within  a month  of it being 
supplied to him and the dealer replaced the EGR  valve  and fuel filter. But in April 2019 Mr A 
complained about a noise  coming from the van and the crank pulley was replaced.  The 
independent expert  says that there is a noise coming from the van which is likely to be 
caused by timing chain  wear. He says that he hasnt used the van since then and its parked  
outside his house. 
Blue Motor  Finance hasnt paid for the timing  chain to be replaced and I dont consider that 
its reasonable to expect  a van to have so many issues  within  three months  of being supplied  
to Mr A when hes used it to drive  less than 2,000  miles. So I consider that the van wasnt as 
durable as it was reasonable for him to expect it to be  and for that reason it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
So I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr A to be 
allowed to reject the van. I find that Blue Motor Finance should end the agreement  and 
collect the van from Mr A. Mr A paid a deposit of £500  for the van and Blue Motor Finance 
says that he also paid £246  for an extended warranty  (and its agreed to refund the warranty  
payment to him). I consider that it would be fair and reasonable  for Blue Motor Finance to 
refund the £500 deposit and the £246 warranty  payment to Mr A (with interest). Mr A hasnt 
used the van since April 2019 so I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to also 
refund to him the monthly payments that hes made for the van since  the beginning of April 
2019 (with interest). I consider that it can keep the payments that he made before then as 
payment for the use that hes had from the van. 
These events have caused  distress and inconvenience to Mr A. And I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to pay him £100  to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN60300423Mr A says that hes paid for the van to be repaired and for MOT  tests,  tax and insurance and 
that hes put a personal registration plate on the van and will now have to pay for that to be 
removed. But repair and MOT test costs,  tax and insurance are the ordinary costs of running  
a van. And Im not persuaded  that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require  Blue Motor  
Finance to reimburse Mr A for those costs. It was Mr As decision to put a personal 
registration plate  on the van. And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require Blue Motor Finance to reimburse  him for the costs of doing so  or the costs  of 
removing that plate before the van is collected.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint. And I order  Blue Motor 
Finance Limited  to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the van to be collected from Mr A  
both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr A the deposit of £500 that he paid for the van and the £246  that he paid 
for the extended  warranty.
3.Refund to Mr A the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since  the 
beginning of April 2019.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Remove any information about the agreement from Mr As credit file. 
6.Pay £100 to Mr A to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Blue Motor  Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 4 above. Blue Motor  Finance  must  give Mr A a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6030042