K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement by BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW Finance) was of unsatisfactory  quality contrary to 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
background
Towards the end of May 2018, Mrs S entered into a hire purchase  agreement with BMW 
Finance for a car supplied  by a dealer which Ill call D1.  The car was then two years old 
and had a recorded mileage of some 12,000 miles.  The cash  price of the car was £19,500. 
Mrs S made an advance payment of £2,667.50, and agreed to pay 35 monthly payments of 
£276.99 each.  Thereafter,  if she wanted  to buy the car she had to pay an optional payment  
of £10,692.82.
Three weeks after delivery  a fault code appeared indicating there  was something wrong with 
the brakes. Mrs S phoned D1, who arranged for an assistance company to come and look at 
the car. It said the brake  fluid level was low. They topped it up and left.
One week later the windscreen wipers started  coming on by themselves even when the car 
wasnt running. Mrs S called D1 again who sent the assistance company. It took the car 
away and returned  it a week later. A courtesy car was provided in the interval. It seems there 
was a fault with the wiring loom.
Within a week of the car being returned a warning about the brakes reappeared. The 
assistance company  came again and said there was a leak on the brake  callipers. Mrs S 
took the car to a main  dealer, which Ill call D2, for this make of car nearer her home. It 
said:
all four brake callipers were faulty and needed to be replaced;
one engine mount was separating and needed  to be replaced; and
a tyre pressure sensor had failed and needed  to be replaced.
It took six weeks for the parts  to become available and the repairs carried out. Mrs S was 
provided with a different make of courtesy  car in the meantime.
Mrs S complained to BMW Finance. She said that because of the faults the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  when supplied and so she wanted to reject it. BMW Finance didnt 
respond so she complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She concluded that the 
faults which D2 repaired were present at the time of delivery. Given the age of the car and 
low mileage she thought  this meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
The investigator said that under CRA  a consumer had an initial right to reject  unsatisfactory  
goods within 30 days of delivery. She hadnt seen  any evidence  that Mrs S had attempted to 
do this.
Once 30 days had passed, the supplier was given one chance to repair the faulty  car. If it 
failed to do so, the consumer  could  reject the goods. BMW Finance had been given the 
opportunity to repair the car but the faults  then reappeared. So she thought  it fair for Mrs S to 
be able now to reject the car. She recommended  that BMW  Finance:
Ref: DRN69418212end Mrs Ss hire purchase  agreement  without further cost to her;
collect the car from Mrs S without cost to her;
remove all adverse  information (if any) about  the hire purchase  agreement on       
Mrs Ss credit  file;
refund  20% of the monthly payments Mrs S had made in the months of May to 
October 2018 inclusive, to compensate  her for the impaired use she had of the car in 
that period;
refund  to Mrs S the cost of a service she had carried  out on the basis  that if BMW  
Finance had accepted her request to reject  the car when  she made this she wouldnt 
have had to incur this expense;
refund  the advance  payment Mrs S had made plus interest from the date of payment 
until settlement; and
pay Mrs S compensation  of £150 for the distress  and inconvenience the persistent 
faults with the brakes had caused  her.
Mrs S responded to say, in summary, that:
she thought  she should be refunded 50% of her monthly payments from May until 
settlement; and
it wasnt the cost of a service she wanted  refunded, but the cost of an MOT  test 
which she wouldnt have had to pay if BMW  Finance  had accepted her rejection 
earlier. 
BMW Finance didnt accept that Mrs S still had a right to reject the car under CRA. It said 
there had been  only one fault in August 2018.  The customer had accepted  the repair and it 
was now too late for her to reject the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I think BMW Finance was wrong  to say there had only been one fault with the car in August 
2018. A fault with the brakes appeared three weeks after delivery.  Mrs S phoned BMW 
Finances agent,  D1, who had the opportunity to investigate the fault properly and repair it, 
but failed to do so.
The fault then reappeared, along  with further  faults.  So I agree with the investigator that 
under CRA Mrs S was entitled  to reject the car, which she told BMW  Finance  in her letter of 
22 August 2018  that she wished to do. However it wouldnt accept her rejection.
While the car was being repaired, Mrs S was provided with a courtesy car, and since it has 
been repaired she has continued to use the car and pay the monthly instalments under her 
finance agreement.
Mrs S says she should be refunded 50% of the instalments from May 2018 until settlement 
to compensate her for the trouble  and upset she has been through. I think that would be 
excessive. I agree that the remedies the investigator  recommended  are fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69418213my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order BMW  Financial Services  (GB) Limited  
to:
end Mrs Ss hire purchase  agreement  without further cost to her;
collect the car from Mrs S without cost to her;
remove all adverse  information (if any) about  the hire purchase  agreement on       
Mrs Ss credit  file;
refund  20% of the monthly payments Mrs S has made in the months  of May to 
October 2018 inclusive, to compensate  her for the impaired use she had of the car in 
that period;
refund  to Mrs S the cost of an MOT  test she has carried  out (subject to her providing 
evidence of payment)  on the basis that if BMW  Finance had accepted  her request to 
reject the car when  she made this she wouldnt  have had to incur  this expense;
refund  the advance  payment Mrs S made  under the hire purchase agreement;
pay Mrs S interest on the amount of the advance payment at the annual rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment  until settlement; (1) and
pay Mrs S compensation  of £150 for the distress  and inconvenience the persistent 
faults with the brakes caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(1)   If BMW  Finance considers that its required  by HM Revenue and Customs  to withhold    
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from         
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6941821