K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in February 2019 explaining why I intended to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both BoS and Mr and Mrs F to provide  me with any further comments  and evidence 
they would  like me to consider before I issued a final decision.  BoS agreed  with my decision 
to uphold this complaint.  Mr and Mrs F didnt provide anything  further  for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
As Mr and Mrs F havent  provided  me with any further evidence  to consider and BoS have 
agreed to uphold the complaint following my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings set out in my provisional  decision. It follows  that I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint for the same reasons as those  set out in my provisional decision.
fair compensation
BoS should put Mr and Mrs F in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and BoS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs F the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs F made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give Mr 
and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against  Bank  of Scotland plc and require them to pay Mr 
and Mrs F the compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN69188062Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69188063copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage  with BoS in 2004. They then took out a further advance in 
September 2008 and the PPI was sold alongside this further advance.
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Fs names, the PPI only covered  Mr F. It was meant 
to provide a monthly  benefit  if Mr F was off work  sick or lost his job for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree 
with our adjudicator and so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Having done that, Im intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I will now explain why.
BoS accept that they advised Mr and Mrs F to take out PPI. Ive seen documents  from the time of the 
sale and Im satisfied that BoS did advise  them to take out PPI. This means BoS had to take 
adequate steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs F. However,  I dont think BoS did take 
all the steps that they should have and I dont think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs F.
The documents Ive seen from the time of the sale show that Mr F was suffering  from a pre-existing 
condition. I appreciate that Mr F didnt mention  this in his PPIQ but given that he has confirmed he 
was suffering from a medical condition  in the documents from the time of the sale, Im satisfied that 
Mr F was suffering from this pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale.  
The policy excluded claims for pre-existing  medical conditions. In fact the exclusion was drafted  in 
such wide terms  that it included  not only the medical  condition itself but also related conditions and 
associated symptoms  whether diagnosed or not. The nature of Mr Fs medical condition was such 
that it could flare up and cause problems  in the future  even  if it hadnt up until the point of sale.   
I havent seen anywhere in the documents provided  that this exclusion and its wide nature was 
explained to Mr F as it should have been at the point  at which he decided to take PPI out. I think  if it 
had been discussed with Mr F as it should have  been,  then he wouldnt have taken this PPI policy as 
the policy  wouldnt have  been of good value  for money in his circumstances  this is despite the fact 
that Mr F may have been able to claim  for unrelated medical conditions and unemployment.
So I dont think BoS should  have advised Mr F to take PPI and it follows  that I currently think BoS mis-
sold Mr and Mrs F this PPI policy.
proposed fair compensation
BoS should  put Mr and Mrs F in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and BoS should:
Ref: DRN69188064Pay Mr and Mrs F the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what they got for 
the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  BoS to take off tax from this interest.  BoS must give Mr and Mrs F 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6918806