K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  about their mortgage with Nottingham Building Society. They  say the 
interest rate charged is too high and not in line with other rates  they could have had.
background
Mr and Mrs K have  had their mortgage  with Nottingham for many  years.  Around  ten years  
ago they came off an interest rate product and moved to Nottinghams standard variable rate 
(SVR). 
At that time,  the SVR was 7.24%. Over  the next few years it fell to 5.49% and Mr and Mrs K 
stayed on the SVR until 2017.  They say it was only then that, discussing their mortgage with 
a friend,  they realised  the interest rate they were  paying was higher than it needed to be. 
They got in touch with Nottingham and took a new fixed interest rate of 1.85%. They  
complained that theyd  been overcharged  in the years up to 2017. They  say the rate was 
unfair, and Nottingham  should have reduced the rate, or contacted  them to tell them  other 
rates were  available  to them.
They said that Mr K had been very unwell in 2015  and couldnt  work, so theyd contacted 
Nottingham to ask for help. Even then it didnt point out they could reduce their interest rate 
 and therefore their mortgage payments. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding their complaint, so Mr and Mrs K asked for an 
ombudsman to review  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage has been  on the standard variable rate since 2008. Between  2008 
and 2009, the SVR reduced roughly in line with falls in the Bank of England base rate  that 
is to say, it fell at around the same  time,  but not by as much. By 2009, when base rate was 
0.5%, the SVR was over 5%, and stayed at that level until Mr and Mrs K took a new fixed  
rate in 2017.
The SVR is a variable  rate  but it doesnt track the Bank of England base rate, or remain  
above it by a particular margin. Nothing  in Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage  paperwork suggests the 
SVR will follow base rate. Nottingham  can take base rate into account when deciding what  
the SVR should be, but its merely one of the factors it can consider, and its not obliged to 
change the SVR when base rate changes.
In the years  up to 2017, then, the SVR didnt change. The level of the SVR itself wasnt 
unfair, in my view  it was broadly in line with the SVRs charged by other lenders, and hadnt  
been increased.
The SVR was much  higher than the promotional interest  rates offered by both Nottingham  
and by other lenders. Nothing  in the terms of Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage offer said that they 
were entitled  to a new rate. But equally there was nothing to prevent them  taking another 
rate  they werent required  to pay an early  repayment charge, for example.
Ref: DRN69188762The issue  here is that Mr and Mrs K could  have havehave applied  for new rates  at any time 
from 2008 until 2017, but didnt do so.
At the relevant time, there  was no rule of mortgage  regulation, or requirement  of industry 
good practice, that said that lenders should  have  contacted borrowers to invite them to apply 
for new rates. Thats changed more recently,  but wasnt the case up to 2017. Nothing  in the 
terms of this mortgage obliged Nottingham  to do so either.
Nottingham was required  to tell Mr and Mrs K what interest rate they were  paying, and it did 
so by setting it out in their annual statements. I think the statements are clear in explaining 
the rate they were  paying.  They dont say Mr and Mrs K could have got a different rate, but 
as Ive said there was no obligation to do that at the time.
Nottingham was also required to tell Mr and Mrs K if their monthly  payments changed  but 
between 2009  and 2017 the payments didnt change.
If Mr and Mrs K wanted a different interest  rate, it was  at the time  up to them to contact 
Nottingham and ask for one. Theres no evidence they did that. Mr and Mrs K said that Mr K 
was unwell in 2015 and they asked Nottingham  for help. The only evidence Ive seen  of 
contact with Nottingham in that year is a phone  call from Mrs K, asking about the assignment 
of their endowment  policy. There was no mention  on that call of the interest  rate, the amount 
of the payment, any financial  difficulty or any health problems Mr K might have been 
experiencing.
Acting fairly,  Id have  expected Nottingham to have  considered what it could have done to 
assist Mr and Mrs K if theyd asked for help or said they were in financial difficulty.  One of 
the things it could have done  was to review their interest rate. But theres no evidence to 
support Mr and Mrs Ks recollection  of having  had that discussion with Nottingham, and the 
mortgage doesnt appear to have gone  into arrears.  
Some borrowers choose to apply for new fixed rates when  old ones expire, to benefit from 
lower payments. Some choose not to, to benefit from the greater flexibility,  including  lack of 
early repayment charges,  of being  on the SVR. As it doesnt appear  that Mr and Mrs K 
contacted Nottingham  before a friend suggested they do so in 2017, there was no way for 
Nottingham to know they might have been  unhappy on the SVR or wanted to be offered 
something different.  So while I appreciate that, with hindsight, Mr and Mrs K now wish theyd 
asked for a lower rate sooner, I dont think Nottingham has treated them  unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6918876