K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) rejected a 
chargeback claim he made  through  them.
background
Mr K bought a lithographic print at auction  from a company I will call S. He paid using his 
AMEX charge card and also paid for S to ship the print to his home  address.
But when the print arrived the frame  was broken and the glass had shattered. Mr K was 
concerned that the print may have been  damaged  as a result.
He contacted S but they rejected his complaint  as they said the frame  wasnt part of the 
artwork.
So Mr K made a chargeback request though AMEX. They raised  the request under a code  
for goods not as described or defective. S defended the chargeback  as they said the print 
was in the same condition  as theyd offered at sale and the scheme managers upheld their 
defence and therefore rejected Mr Ks claim.
Mr K didnt raise a chargeback for the shipping contract and is now out of time to do so.
He referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator provided her opinion. She 
thought AMEX had applied  the correct chargeback code in the circumstances and she didnt 
think theyd been  unreasonable. She noted that Mr K was out of time to be able to raise  a 
chargeback against  the shipping transaction and she thought the best course of action 
would be if an insurance claim was possible.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators view and he therefore asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr K so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes  are resolved between 
card issuers  and merchants, under the relevant  card scheme  rules.  
Ref: DRN62794872What this means here is that AMEX  can in some circumstances  ask for a transaction  to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant Mr K paid.
But the chargeback process  doesnt give consumers legal rights  and it isnt guaranteed to 
result in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response  to the request the 
bank submits. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided  based on the card scheme's rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. AMEXs role is to raise the appropriate 
chargeback, and consider whether any filed defence  complies with the relevant chargeback 
rules. From what  Ive seen, thats  what AMEX did here.
AMEX raised a chargeback under reason code 4553  - goods not as described or defective. I 
think that was the most appropriate  code.  But the merchant didnt agree and their defence  
was strong  enough  to mean the chargeback  didnt  succeed. I cant  say AMEX  therefore did 
anything wrong. They  referred the chargeback under the correct code but the merchants 
defence led to the chargeback being rejected by the scheme providers. 
Id agree with the investigators suggestion  that Mr Ks best course of action may be to 
pursue an insurance  claim if one is feasible. But Im afraid that here,  I dont think AMEX have 
been unreasonable and Im not asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6279487