K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc has applied excessive charges to his account and 
this has caused  him financial  difficulties.
background to complaint
Mr G says that BoS has charged him more than £3,400 in overdraft fees over the last six 
years. It gave him a loan of £3,000  to help him clear  the overdraft but he says this only made  
his situation worse. He thinks that BoS had a duty of care to remove the overdraft limit when 
it offered the loan but it didnt do this. He would like BoS to refund the charges, as well as 
the interest it charged, in total £4,508.
He is also concerned that he complained  to BoS in April 2018 about  this but it didnt  reply.
The investigator didnt  think that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that this service 
could not look into Mr Gs concerns about  the loan or any charges that were applied  before 
April 2013 because Mr G had brought the complaint about them  too late. The loan was taken 
more than six years ago and he had complained in March 2013 about  charges.
He accepted that BoS did not provide  Mr G with a satisfactory level of service because it 
didnt investigate the complaint he raised  with it in April 2018.  BoS had offered to pay £100 
for its poor service which he thought  was fair. He also thought that BoS had acted fairly in 
applying the charges since 2013.
Mr G didnt agree. Although he accepted  that the issues he raised about the loan and 
charges before 2013 were  not within our jurisdiction,  he said the bank had a duty to remove 
his overdraft facility  when it offered the loan and the effect of this, and all the charges, on his 
mental illness hadnt been considered.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the adjudicator did  for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
But before I do, there is one thing I must make clear.  Mr G is unhappy about:
whether BoS should have removed Mr Gs overdraft limit when it offered him a loan
the interest and charges he incurred before 2013.
Ive already dealt  with this part of Mr Gs complaint separately in an earlier  decision.
I found that our service  didnt have the power to look into it as he had made the complaint  
too late. So I wont be making any further comments on these issues.
But what  I can look at is Mr Gs complaint about  charges  applied  since  April 2013.
My decision  does not consider whether the charges levied by BoS are themselves unfair, 
illegal or unenforceable.  Following completion  of the test case between the 
Office of Fair Trading and a number of banks, including  BoS, the law on these  types of 
charges has been  clarified. Put simply,  the Courts have ruled that these sorts of charges do 
Ref: DRN68055352not generally amount to penalties and cannot be challenged on the grounds that they are too 
high. 
Mr G has suggested that by continuing to apply charges to his account BoS has contributed 
to the financial  difficulties he has experienced. In cases of financial difficulties, a bank  has a 
regulatory requirement to act positively and sympathetically to a customer. But it is still 
entitled to make enquiries and carry out its own investigations to verify  the situation,  and it 
doesnt mean that it has to freeze  interest and charges on an account. I would, however, 
expect both parties to cooperate fully in negotiating  a way forward.  
I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling  about  the amount  of charges he has incurred for what  
he considers are small transgressions. I have  carefully reviewed his statements and Im 
satisfied that the charges have been  debited correctly. He had a small overdraft limit of £300 
and I consider that it was up to Mr G to monitor his own account  and to operate it within the 
limit to avoid  charges.  
In April 2013 BoS offered to carry out a review with Mr G and told him how he could avoid 
charges in the future.  I also consider it advised him in advance of any charges that were due 
to be made,  and when  they would be debited, so that he could ensure there  was enough 
money in the account to cover. If he was unable to do so, it was open to him to contact the 
bank to discuss ways  in which it could help.
In the circumstances, I find that the banks charges were levied in accordance  with the 
account terms and conditions and I cant fairly order them to be refunded on the grounds that 
they were too high or were  unfair.  
service issues
BoS accepts that Mr G wrote to it in March 2018  about the charges and it didnt respond  to 
his concerns until he raised them  again with us. It then replied  in September  2018  but didnt 
cover the charges it had applied since April 2013.  It agrees  that its level of service wasnt 
what Mr G should have  been able to expect.  It has apologised and offered to pay him £100 
for this. I consider this to be reasonable. 
my decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Bank  of Scotland  plc to pay 
Mr G £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6805535