K820x#14complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that HSBC Life (UK) Limited  turned down her income protection claim.
background
Mrs K is a member of her employers group income protection policy.
In October  2017 Mrs K was signed off work  due to some problems with her salivary  glands, 
which were being  investigated by her GP and other  medical professionals. In March 2018  
she felt ready to return to work, but her condition then deteriorated, she had an operation 
and then returned to work  in July 2018.
Mrs K made a claim on her policy but HSBC turned it down. It said the medical  evidence  
suggested Mrs Ks problem was an intermittent one so didnt  entirely prevent her from 
working and that meant she didnt meet the incapacity definition.
Mrs K asked us to look into her complaint. But our investigator didnt think HSBC  had unfairly  
declined the claim. Mrs K didnt agree, so the case has come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld   Ill explain why.
What do the policy terms say?  
In order to make a successful claim Mrs K needed  to meet  the policy terms and conditions.  
They say, in effect, that the income protection benefit will be paid after a waiting period of 26 
weeks if Mrs K is unable  to perform the material and substantial duties of her own 
occupation due to illness or injury.  
Has HSBC rejected  the claim unfairly? 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that HSBC has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly  and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. And I dont think 
HSBC has treated Mr K unfairly.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Ks GP signed  her off work between  October  2017  and July 
2018. And her medical records suggest her condition  flared  up at various points in that 
timeframe, causing her discomfort  and affecting her sleep patterns, concentration and her 
mood. But, as HSBC has pointed out, it doesnt seem that her condition  was continuous in 
nature. The GP said out latterly that she has multiple strictures in the salivary  glands which  
cause saliva  to build up, causing  swelling  and pain and those symptoms can last all day and 
night. But her medical notes indicate  the pain and swelling comes and goes/is sporadic. The 
consultants noted the same and indicated there was no swelling on the days  they saw her in 
January and March  2018. It seems possible that was why surgery  wasnt proposed sooner, 
given the indication is that carried significant  risks and so was a last resort.
Also, in early-March 2018 the occupational health manager reported that Mrs K had made 
progress, felt her symptoms were manageable and was able to return to work. That didnt,  
Ref: DRN67581882ultimately, happen until July 2018  because Mrs K appears to have suffered another  flare up 
which led to her having surgery. But having  considered everything it seems there was at 
least one time  though likely  more than that, given her symptoms were  documented as 
being sporadic   during  the deferred period when Mrs K couldve returned to work.
Without medical evidence to show  Mrs K was unable to perform the material and substantial  
duties of her own occupation due to illness or injury  throughout the deferred period and 
afterwards, up until she returned  to work in July 2018, I dont think  it would be fair to tell 
HSBC to pay her claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6758188