K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) imposed an unfair 
charge on him for damage to a leased car on its return.
background
Mr P acquired a car under  a contract  hire agreement with VFS in May 2016. Mr Ps 
agreement came to an end two years  later and an independent agent acting for VFS 
inspected the car on 11 May. He identified a scratch on the front panel. Mr P didnt have time 
to book the car in for repair, so he carried out his own repairs  using the correct  equipment.  
The agent  also noted a chip on the windscreen and Mr P called out a repairer  which was 
covered under his insurance policy, but for which he paid a £10 charge. He says the repairer 
told him the damage wasnt worth fixing.
The car was collected by a second  agent  and no mention was made of the damage.  VFS 
charged Mr P for the damage to the panel  and to the windscreen. But after being challenged 
it removed the latter.  Mr P brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by 
one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He said Mr P signed a document when  he took out the agreement  titled, Driver/Hirer:  Key 
Information Responsibilities. In this it explains what can happen  at the end of the contact  
about any damage sustained beyond the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
(BVRLA) fair wear  and tear standards.
He said that the damage to the panel fell out side BVRLA guidelines for wear  and tear. He 
also pointed out that the agreement Mr P signed  said that any repairs had to be carried out 
by an authorised repairer. His own repair  work  didnt come  within  that definition. The 
adjudicator also said that the scratch remained visible after the repair.  
As for the windscreen  damage he didnt think unreasonable for the inspector to have pointed  
out the chip. He also said that it was noticeable  on the photograph taken by the inspector. Mr 
P didnt  agree and said that he wasnt given  enough time to get the repairs done before the 
car was collected. He also said that his time and money was wasted on a non existent chip.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sympathise with Mr P, but I dont believe I can uphold his complaint. He signed an 
agreement in 2016 which entitles VFS to charge for any damage that goes beyond fair wear  
and tear as defined  by the BVRLA. The scratch went beyond fair wear  and tear.
VFS werent  obliged to give him time to have this fixed. In fact on most occasions  I believe 
the inspection  and collection of the car takes place at the same time.  VFS hasnt done 
anything wrong  in that regard. It was open  to Mr P to ensure the car was in a satisfactory 
condition in time for the return without the need  to rely on the inspection.
As for the repair  effected by Mr P regrettably  it didnt  meet the standards set out in the 
agreement which he signed.  He agreed  that any work would have to be carried  out by an 
Ref: DRN61451202approved repairer.  And as the adjudicator has pointed  out the scratch  is still visible. I dont 
believe it was the responsibility of the person collecting the car to comment  on its condition. 
I appreciate that the chip on the windscreen didnt need to be repaired, but I can see that 
there is a mark on the photograph taken by the inspector. I consider it reasonable for him to 
have included it in his report. In any event VFS has not charged for this though  I do 
appreciate Mr P incurred  a charge  of £10 to have it checked.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
15 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6145120