K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992 and adjusted in 2000. Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the 
PPI. It covered Mr D in case he was off work  sick or lost his job.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I have  not found  that this policy  was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D had had their mortgage  for around 8 years by the time they applied for PPI, so 
they wouldve  known  they didnt have  to take the policy to get their mortgage. The PPIs cost 
was set out and paid separately to the cost of the mortgage itself,  and not as something that 
was automatically part and parcel of the lending. There doesnt seem to be any debate  that 
Mr and Mrs D agreed  to the policy, and it looks like in order to set it up they wouldve 
specifically applied for it. So I think that Nationwide  made it clear  Mr and Mrs D didnt have to 
take out PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
With that said, Mr D says they were unfairly pressured into choosing the PPI. The policy  was 
originally sold by a generic  letter  with a limited time offer, which  Mr D says put them  under 
pressure to buy PPI. And he says he was asked what hed do if he lost his job, which he felt 
was a scare  tactic. Ive thought carefully about  this point. The letter talked about the difficult  
economic circumstances the country  was in, and pointed out the general risk of people  
losing jobs. But those  things were true  for instance, unemployment was at a high point. 
Similarly, given the importance of the mortgage, I dont think  it was unfair for Nationwide to 
suggest Mr D thought about what hed do if he lost his job. In context, these things  dont 
sound like unfair  pressure tactics so much as sensible suggestions. And businesses are 
generally allowed  to make limited time offers  these are quite normal  promotions across  
many industries and I dont think this constitutes  unfairly pressurising a particular customer. 
The letter seems to make  it clear the policy was something customers  could apply for if they 
wanted it  and which Nationwide thought was a generally good idea  rather than 
something they had to have. So while I understand Mr Ds point of view, I dont think 
Nationwide put Mr and Mrs D under unfair pressure to choose  the PPI.
It doesnt look like Nationwide gave  Mr and Mrs D tailored  financial  advice  about  buying PPI, 
so much as a generalised recommendation that their product  was a good  one. But Mr D 
certainly came away with the impression that he was given advice, and the requirements 
were stricter  on Nationwide  if it did make  an advised sale.  So to be fair to Mr and Mrs D, Ive 
assumed they were  advised to take PPI. That means Nationwide had to check  that the policy  
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I think  
that it was.
Ref: DRN64385692For example, Mr D wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
From what  Mr and Mrs D have told us, it looks like Mrs D wasnt eligible for cover, so it 
would make sense  that the policy covered Mr D only. While he explained he had good 
benefits through work, the PPI covered Mr D for far longer than those wouldve lasted in any 
one claim,  and it wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits. And Mr and Mrs D dont 
appear to have had any savings  or other cover at the time of the sale. Its worth bearing in 
mind that Mr D was the main earner, and if Mr and Mrs D fell behind  on their mortgage 
payments they couldve lost their home.  So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for 
them in protecting their home and giving  some peace of mind.
Ive also taken account of Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances in 2000 when the policy  was 
adjusted, but I havent seen a reason why it would  mean the policy  was mis-sold at that point 
either. For example,  while Mr Ds work benefits  wouldve  increased,  the PPI still wouldve 
covered him for much longer and paid out on top. And while Mr and Mrs D had some 
savings, these were described  as temporary  and were only a relatively  small amount. Mr D 
said his outgoings  had increased, so hed have wanted increased cover, but in 2000 the 
policys cost and benefit was decreased. It wasnt decreased by very much,  so I dont  think 
this is particularly significant, and it may well be that since Mr Ds outgoings had increased 
he wanted to pay less for his insurance. The benefit  wouldve still been useful for Mr and 
Mrs D, so I still think the policy was suitable  for them. And Mr D doesnt  appear to have 
claimed on the PPI, which would mean  he hasnt lost out by taking out a reduced  benefit  if 
anything, it just means hes been  paying less money to Nationwide.
Its possible that the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely  
to have changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs D chose to take out the policy,  
which indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like Mr D 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it would have been  useful  
for Mr and Mrs D in case something went wrong.  The policy was not bad value considering  
what it could pay out in a claim. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs D 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better  information  
about the PPI was likely to have put them off taking  it out. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about  that. Because  Nationwide didnt 
tell them,  that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN64385693my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. This final decision marks the 
end of our consideration of the case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6438569