K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 
July 1995.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
this sale. So, to keep  things simple, in my decision Ill just refer to FICL as the PPI seller.
Miss C says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss C says she was led to believe she had to have the PPI to get the store  card. And I 
accept that (over 20 years on) this is how she remembers what happened. But the 
application form for the store card that was signed by Miss C, included  a section about 
the PPI. This had two boxes  one to tick to take out the PPI and one to tick to say no. 
There is a tick in the box to say yes to taking out PPI. So I think  FICL made it clear that 
Miss C didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss C got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
The information FICL gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. 
But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based  
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have been  useful  for 
her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN66703952my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6670395