K822xcomplaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way that a claim under her home  insurance policy for a water leak 
has been handled by Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA).
background 
In early March 2018 Mrs B made  a claim to RSA after a leak from the upstairs bathroom 
caused damage to her dining  room, utility room and downstairs bathroom.  RSA accepted  
the claim and appointed  a loss adjuster to manage it.
It also appointed  a company to dry the property. Mrs B says she told RSA several times 
that the drying equipment  was faulty but it didnt do anything about  it. She says as a result  
further damage was caused by mould.
In May RSAs supplier  looked at what strip out works were needed. These works werent 
authorised until July and work started  at the end of that month.
The reinstatement works were  approved  at the end of October. Mrs B was told that the work 
should be finished by mid-December. It wasnt. After  further delays it was decided  to bring in 
a new sub-contractor  who started  work in January 2019.
Mrs B complained to RSA. She said shed stressed early on that she needed the repairs  
finished by Christmas as she was having  guests  to stay. She wasnt  happy that nine months 
after the damage had happened, her house  was still in a terrible mess. In January 2019 RSA 
offered Mrs B £200  compensation which she didnt accept.
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator upheld it. He thought £600 
compensation would be fair.
RSA said it was happy to pay the additional compensation. As Mrs B didnt think the 
compensation was enough, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only looking at how RSA has handled Mrs Bs claim up to 22 January 2019 when it 
issued a final response to her complaint.  I understand shes made a further complaint about 
how RSA handled  her claim after that point.
The only issue that I need to decide is the amount of compensation RSA should pay Mrs B 
for the shortcomings  in its service to her. 
Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them - some  more so than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, its looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above  and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated  with a 
claim of this type.
Ref: DRN66738242In my opinion this claim has been  going on for much longer than it should have done. Ive 
reviewed the time-line  and can see that there were a number of different  parties involved - 
including the loss adjuster, the drying company, a contractor and a sub-contractor amongst 
others. There appears to have been some confusion  between them about the extent of the 
strip out works. Those works didnt start until the end of July. Mrs B was promised that the 
reinstatement work  would be finished  by mid-December. That didnt happen, so Mrs Bs 
Christmas plans had to be cancelled.  After several  missed deadlines  a new subcontractor 
started work  in January.  
RSA acknowledged  that its loss adjuster should have been more  proactive in managing the 
claim. I agree. The fact that it wasnt in full control of the claim caused delays. Mrs B also 
suffered unnecessary trouble and upset as throughout all this time she had to keep chasing 
RSA for information. Often its suppliers didnt get back to her as promised.
I appreciate that Mrs B thinks shes entitled  to considerably  more  compensation and Im 
sorry to disappoint  her. But looking  at the length  of the delay and the effect on Mrs B of all 
the failings on the part of RSA in handling  this claim I think  a payment of £600 is appropriate 
in the circumstances to compensate her for the trouble and upset which RSA caused her.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mrs B £600 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6673824