K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about the treatment of Mr R by GLYN HOPKIN  LIMITED (GHL).
Mrs R brings this complaint in her capacity as the personal representative of Mr Rs estate, 
Mr R being her late husband.
Mrs R herself  is represented by her daughter. But for ease I will refer to any submissions 
made by Mrs Rs daughter as if they had been  made  by Mrs R.
background
Following Mr Rs death Mrs Rs says it came  to her attention  that Mr R had debt, including  
debt on one or more  credit cards. And in her view much of this debt related to the acquisition  
by Mr R, over a number of years, of several  cars on finance with him using, by way of 
example, a credit card to fund the deposit  on the new car and/or to repay  the finance 
outstanding on the old car.
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted it appears that Mr R took delivery of a 
new car on, or around,  the following dates:
September 2009
March 2010
December 2011
September 2013
April 2014
May 2015
February 2016
September 2016
For reasons not material to my decision, both parties have only been able to provide the 
sales invoice and finance agreement in respect of the last car acquired, the finance 
agreement being  a hire purchase  agreement.
From the supplied sales invoice and the finance  agreement it can be seen that:
the September 2016 car cost £11,000
Mr R received a part exchange allowance for the February  2016  car of £9,357.95
the outstanding finance on the February 2016  car agreement was £9,357.95
the part exchange allowance was used to settle the outstanding finance on the 
February 2016 car agreement
Mr R paid a deposit (by card)  of £1,691.90 and financed  the balance  of £9,308.10 
(£11,000 - £1,691.90).
Mrs R complained to our service. She said that Mr R had been taken advantage of and that 
his estate, amongst  other things, should be compensated.
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who came  to the view that GHL 
had done nothing wrong. In her view there  was insufficient evidence  to conclude  that any of 
the finance agreements were misrepresented  to Mr R, or important  information  in respect of 
them left out. 
Ref: DRN66529942She said that it was a decision  for Mr R to make  the payments that he did by card (or by 
other means) and it wasnt unreasonable for GHL to have accepted these  payments. Indeed, 
to not have done so might  have left it exposed to a claim  of discrimination.
She also said that although  Mr R might  have been  ill in September  2016 this wouldnt have 
been grounds for GHL to prevent him from acquiring the September 2016 car on finance that 
he did. But in any event,  this acquisition didnt in itself cause Mr Rs estate to suffer  a loss 
because on his death the outstanding finance  liability was cleared to zero by the finance 
provider, with nothing  further to pay.
Mrs R didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  She said she was present at many, if not all, 
of the visits Mr R made to GHL and he was clearly taken advantage of.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change her mind so the complaint was passed to me 
for review and decision.
Prior to this complaint being  passed  to me the adjudicator  advised  Mrs R that if she wanted 
to make a complaint  about the lending granted to Mr R being irresponsible or unaffordable, 
then such a complaint  needed to be raised  at least in the first instance   with the relevant 
finance provider.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in October 2020. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I dont underestimate  Mrs Rs strength of feeling in this matter. But Im restricted as to what I 
can consider a complaint about  here. 
In essence Im restricted to looking at what GHL did in its capacity as a credit broker  and 
nothing more. What  this means is I cant consider  a complaint about  what  GHL did in its 
capacity as a car dealer, which includes Mrs Rs concerns about the number of cars it sold  
Mr R over the seven years between 2009  and 2016.  
GHLs role as a credit broker  was to introduce  Mr R to the supplier of finance and to do so 
fairly. In other words, it was under an obligation  to not mislead Mr R.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory   as some  of its here  Im required 
to make my decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is Im required to decide the most 
likely explanation as to what happened.
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted, which in many respects is limited 
despite Mrs R being given ample opportunity to provide the same,  I cant see that Mr R was 
misled as to the nature  of the finance that was being  brokered on his behalf by GHL,  or that 
any important information in respect of that finance was left out. Im also not persuaded that 
Mr R was pressured into taking the finance  that was proposed.  I say the latter because had 
Mr R been pressured  into taking the finance  that he did I might  have expected  him to have 
raised such a concern  himself, or for Mrs R to have  done  so sooner than she did given that 
she has confirmed to our service that she was present at many, if not all, of the visits Mr R 
made to GHL.
Ref: DRN66529943I thinks its also worth noting that most of Mr Rs monthly finance payments,  if not all, were 
made from a bank account held jointly with Mrs R. And having  looked at a substantial 
number of statements  in respect of this account   covering a ten year period  Ive seen 
nothing that would suggest  Mr R would have  been unaware of the payments he was making. 
Ive also seen nothing  that would suggest Mr R ever defaulted on his various  payment 
obligations.
Furthermore, given that this account was held jointly  with Mrs R I might have expected 
Mrs R to have raised concerns about what she says was the treatment of Mr R by GHL 
sooner than she did, but she didnt do so.
I appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed by my findings, but Im simply not persuaded   based 
on what has been said and provided   that GHL did anything wrong in brokering the finance 
that it did for Mr R when it did.
GHL didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date I gave.
Mrs R responded to my provisional decision to say that she didnt accept it. In summary she 
reiterated her view that Mr R had been  taken advantage of by GHL and it had failed to 
explain to him the cost of switching cars so frequently. She also said the estate had suffered 
a loss and the reason Mr R hadnt  himself  ever raised a complaint was because he was 
gullible, nave and trusting. Finally, she said she hadnt raised  a complaint sooner herself 
because, as is not uncommon for a woman  of her generation, the management  of the 
household finances had been left to Mr R prior to his passing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont under estimate Mrs Rs strength of feeling in this matter. But she has provided nothing 
in response to my provisional decision that would  lead me to conclude  this complaint should 
be upheld.
I accept that changing cars as often as Mr R did, and financing  these changes  in the manner 
that he did, is unusual.  But unfortunately Mrs R has provided insufficient evidence  for me to 
be able to conclude  that Mr R was misled as to the nature of the finance that was being  
brokered on his behalf by GHL. I also remain of the view, despite what  Mrs R says on this 
point, that I might have  expected Mr R to have raised a complaint himself,  or for her to have 
done so sooner than she did, had Mr R been  pressured into entering the finance agreements  
that he did.
Mrs R says that the estate  suffered a loss on the brokering  of the last finance agreement  
because Mr R paid approximately £1,700 for the car by card.
Now I accept that Mr R paid approximately  £1,700  for the last car by card. But 
notwithstanding Ive seen no evidence that this sum was left as an outstanding  debt when 
Mr R passed away Im simply not persuaded this particular point has any bearing on whether 
the last finance agreement  brokered by GHL was misrepresented,  or important information 
in respect of it left out.
Ref: DRN66529944So in summary I remain  of the view that GHL has done nothing wrong in respect of this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R, in her 
capacity as the personal representative of Mr Rs estate, to accept or reject  my decision 
before 5 December  2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6652994