K821x#15complaint
In 2001 and 2003, Ms C took out two loans with Airdrie Savings Bank (Airdrie). On both 
occasions, Airdrie also sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Ms C thinks  
that Airdrie mis-sold both policies to her and wants it to refund  her premiums she paid for 
them, plus interest.  
 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator thought 
that Airdrie had failed  to tell Ms C about  the full cost of the policies and recommended  that it 
should uphold  her complaint. Airdrie disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the case,  so it has come to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account here and Ive 
decided to uphold  Ms Cs complaint. I explain why below.
Ms C and Airdrie have agreed that Ms C took out her loans and bought the PPI policies 
during meetings at one of Airdries branches. Ms C has told us that Airdrie pushed her into 
taking the policies and didnt tell her they were  optional.  
Airdrie has stated that PPI was always optional on its loans. It has told us that it did not in 
any way indicate  that (PPI) was compulso ry and that it was made  very clear (to customers)  
that the cover was optional. It has sent us copies of the type of application forms that it says 
Ms C would have filled out for her loans in 2001 and 2003, which it thinks  show  that it let Ms 
C choose to have the loans with or without PPI. 
The forms from 2001 and 2003 are slightly different from each other.  The first had a clause 
which said:
 Life, disability and unemployment cover can be arranged. Please mark box (x) if 
cover required; 
and the second had a separate  section called Credit  Protection which  had a Yes/No box 
to show if customers wanted  to take PPI.
I think both forms suggest  that PPI was optional. Of course, I cant tell what Airdrie said to 
Ms C during  the meetings,  but in this case I havent seen enough evidence to think  that 
Airdrie pressured Ms C to take PPI. 
Airdrie has told us that it didnt recommend PPI to Ms C and I accept that it may not have 
done. But, as well as explaining that PPI was optional, Airdrie  also had to tell Ms C about the 
benefits and costs of the policies so she could decide if she wanted them. Im not convinced  
that it properly  explained  the full cost of either PPI policy to Ms C. 
Ms C paid for the policies by borrowing extra money in addition to the loans she wanted. She 
then had to pay interest  on the extra borrowing which added to her overall cost. Airdrie has 
told us that it made the the costs  of the cover  very clear  to Ms C. It has argued that some 
Ref: DRN66885502of the paperwork  it has sent us illustrates  this. However, I dont  agree with Airdrie. Im not 
satisfied that it told Ms C about the cost of the premiums, the amount  of interest the 
premiums would attract and about the total and monthly costs of the policies. 
In both cases, I think the additional cost of PPI was significant for Ms C and I dont  think  she 
would have bought the policies if Airdrie had explained clearly and fairly  how much she 
would have to pay for them. So I think Airdrie mis-sold both policies to Ms C and should now 
put things right by paying her fair compensation. I explain how it should work this out below. 
putting things right  the first loan 
I understand that Ms C paid off the first loan early and cancelled  the PPI policy  at that time. 
She borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should  have been. She 
paid more than she should have each  month  and it cost her more to repay  the loan than it 
would have done without PPI.
To put thinks right, Airdrie  needs  to give Ms C back the extra  shes paid.  So for the first loan 
it should:
Work  out and pay Ms C the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would  have  paid without PPI. 
Work  out and pay Ms C the difference between what it cost her to pay off the loan 
and what it would  have cost her to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms C paid from when she paid it until she 
gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Ms C made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  Airdrie  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Airdrie to take off tax from this interest.  Airdrie  must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN66885503putting things right  the second loan 
I understand that Ms Cs second loan and PPI policy ran to their full expected  terms. 
Ms C borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should  have been and 
she paid more than she should have each  month. 
To put thinks right, Airdrie  needs  to give Ms C back the extra  shes paid.  So for the second 
loan it should:  
Work  out and pay Ms C the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would  have  paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms C paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Ms C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Airdrie can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Airdrie to take off tax from this interest.  Airdrie  must give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold Ms Cs complaint against Airdrie Savings  Bank.  
It should put things right by paying her the compensation I have already described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6688550