K821x#15Complaint
Miss M complains about the way Fairmead  Insurance Limited has handled and settled her 
escape of water claim on her home insurance  policy.
All references to Fairmead in this decision also include their appointed agents.
Background
In July 2017, Miss Ms property suffered an escape  of water.  Miss M told Fairmead who 
accepted the claim. Unfortunately the escape of water meant the property was 
uninhabitable, so Miss M moved into alternative accommodation (AA) in August 2017.  
Fairmead agreed to cover  Miss Ms AA costs.
Fairmead arranged  a drying programme for the property and strip out works commenced in 
August 2017.  Miss M says she received a completion of drying works certificate  in 
October 2017 and Fairmead next arranged  for reinstatement works to the property. 
There followed some  delays and reinstatement  works were  put back  to February 2018. 
Fairmead agreed to cash settle Miss Ms kitchen and reinstate the remainder of the property. 
The reinstatement works carried on for a number of months, but Miss M was concerned  with 
the quality of the repairs.
Fairmeads contractors attempted to rectify the issues with the repair  work  but werent able 
to complete them to a satisfactory standard. The repairs carried on for some months.
In January 2019, frustrated by the overall  delays and quality of repairs,  Miss M complained  
to Fairmead. In response, Fairmead  sent a surveyor to inspect  Miss Ms property. Fairmead 
also offered Miss M £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
The surveyor concluded the repair work  hadnt  been done to a satisfactory standard and the 
property required further works. As Miss Ms relationship with Fairmeads  contractors had 
broken down, it was agreed she would get a quote  from her own builder to complete the 
repair works and Fairmead  settle all reasonable costs.  This included further AA if required as    
Miss M had already used most of her policys AA entitlement.
Miss M provided  a quote from her builder  but was frustrated at Fairmeads progress in 
validating it. In April 2019, Miss M first complained to our service. In summary, she said she 
was unhappy  at the delays in obtaining  the cash settlement from Fairmead  and wanted 
compensation for her time in reduced  living standards.  Miss M also wanted  compensation for 
the delays in the claim, the repeated  late payments from Fairmead covering her costs, the 
distress caused, and the claim removed from her history. In addition,  Miss M said that as the 
property had been uninhabitable  for so long,  she had missed out on a new mortgage and 
had incurred additional costs from the difference in interest rate as a result.
Whilst waiting for our service to investigate, Miss M received  a further final response from 
Fairmead. It explained the delay in processing  Miss Ms quote  was because the builder 
hadnt given enough detail as to individual costs, and said it needed to do a site visit to 
validate the quote. Fairmead released some further  payments  to Miss M for AA and other  
expenses and offered  a further £500  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN67206392Our investigator looked at everything  and recommended the complaint  be upheld.  She found 
it was reasonable  for Fairmead to do a site visit given the size of the quote, and confirmed 
Fairmead had now made the cash settlement to Miss M so she could arrange to start the 
repairs. She added that delays  caused  on behalf  of Miss Ms builder will not need to be 
considered by Fairmead, so recommended the works start date be booked  in as soon as 
possible. 
In addition, our investigator  found  that Fairmead should pay Miss Ms AA costs until the 
repairs were complete and the property was habitable again. She confirmed  Fairmead 
needed to reimburse  Miss M for some additional costs  including  the difference in her 
mortgage interest rate, and recommended it pay Miss M a total of £1,500  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Fairmead accepted  almost all of our investigators  recommendations and agreed to make  a 
lump sum AA payment to Miss M in advance  to cover the proposed scope of repairs, 
including some additional time to arrange  the return of Miss Ms items in storage. But it didnt 
agree it should  pay Miss Ms consequential losses from the difference in mortgage rate.
Miss M didnt accept our investigators findings. She said she wouldnt commit to starting any 
building works  without a single cash sum to resolve  the claim paid up-front. She said she 
wasnt willing to chase  Fairmead for further payments after all the delays and felt the offer of 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused was too low.
Our investigator responded to Miss M and reconfirmed her findings. She found Fairmeads 
offer to pay Miss Ms AA in advance  was fair, and said it was based on Miss Ms own 
builders estimation of the time required  to complete the work.  She confirmed if it took longer 
than this, then she would  ask Fairmead  to review this payment. Our investigator also told 
Miss M that once the AA payment was made by Fairmead it would  be reasonable for her to 
book in the repairs with her builder,  as if she decided  to wait, Fairmead wouldnt be liable for 
additional AA costs.
Miss M didnt accept our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. She 
restated she wanted  a single cash payment for all her expenses  so she could manage the 
remainder of the claim and said she wouldnt start the repair  work  until this was done. She 
didnt agree her property  would be habitable  as soon as the repair  work was complete and 
didnt feel the compensation payment of £1,500 took her experience of the claim and other 
costs into account.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint,  I wont be making a finding on issues  which  have now been 
resolved between the parties. Nor will I comment on the provision of future alternative 
accommodation payments  that would need to be considered as a separate  matter. What  I 
will determine is the matters outstanding  as I see them to be at this stage of the complaint 
and based on the evidence I have  seen.
For ease of reference, I have separated the outstanding issues  into headings below.
Ref: DRN67206393Alternative accommodation costs
Ive first checked the terms and conditions of Miss Ms policy to see what  AA costs are 
covered. The policy  states it will pay, Up to £25,000  alternative accommodation costs if you 
have to temporarily move out of your home  because of an insured event.  Fairmead has to 
date paid more  than this to Miss M, so it has gone  beyond the policy  terms. But given that 
the majority of the delays in the claim were due to Fairmeads initial quality of repair work, I 
think this is a reasonable approach for it to take. But this doesnt mean it should pay out AA 
costs for Miss M indefinitely.
I can see from the correspondence on file that Fairmead cash  settled Miss Ms claim in 
September 2019 on the grounds that Miss M arranged a start date with her builder, which 
was meant  to be booked  in for around late October  2019. I can also see Fairmead has 
considered the total repair time as stated by Miss Ms builder  8-10 weeks,  and some  time 
for Miss M to arrange for her belongings to be returned to the property in its AA payment. 
Fairmead says that should the repairs take longer than 8-10 weeks, it will review Miss Ms 
AA cover when the time comes. I dont think this is an unreasonable  approach  here.
Miss M hasnt yet booked  a date with her builder to start the repairs  as she wants the 
remainder of her claim settled as one lump sum. Whilst I appreciate Miss Ms experience of 
the claim to date has not been good.  I dont find it reasonable that she has delayed things 
further here by not booking in a repair date as advised on a number of occasions. I think  she 
has been given  fair opportunity to begin repairs as agreed by the cash settlement, and whilst 
repairs were ongoing  she could have raised  any outstanding costs  with Fairmead. 
In summary,  I am satisfied Fairmead  has cash settled the claim in line with the proposed 
scope of repairs. I am also satisfied it paid Miss Ms alternative accommodation costs for the 
period which  her builder  said it would  take to repair the property  and make  it habitable  again.  
So at this stage  of the claim, I dont find it reasonable to require Fairmead to pay for further 
accommodation costs  because Miss M has chosen not to begin the repair work.
Should the proposed repair work  take longer than initially quoted,  then I think it would  be 
reasonable for Fairmead to review the alternative  accommodation costs  and make an 
additional payment for this time, as long as this is supported by evidence from Miss Ms 
builder that the property  is still uninhabitable. If Miss M isnt satisfied with Fairmeads 
handling of this, then our service would consider this as a separate matter.
Mortgage interest
Miss M says she has lost out on getting a better mortgage rate as the property cant be lived 
in and doesnt have a proposed finish date for the repair work. Shes provided evidence  of 
conversations with her broker, and letters  from her mortgage providers confirming the 
different rates.  Our investigator also spoke to Miss Ms mortgage  broker  to get some  more 
evidence about  her situation.
Fairmead says that as Miss M didnt  make a mortgage application  it cant be sure that it 
would have been rejected  for only one reason   the property being uninhabitable. So without 
this it wont consider Miss Ms claim for consequential loss. But Miss Ms broker says he 
didnt put through the application because he knew it would be rejected  and didnt want  it to 
affect Miss Ms credit  file. But he is confident that if the property was habitable he would 
have been able to get Miss M the cheaper  interest  rate. Miss M has provided evidence  to 
Ref: DRN67206394show the difference in mortgage  interest works out at £45.48 per month, and Im happy to 
accept this. Im also persuaded by her brokers  testimony.
I think that Fairmead is asking for evidence here that wouldnt be possible for Miss M to 
obtain without  it impacting  her credit file in some way, and I dont find that reasonable. So, I 
think it does need  to reimburse  Miss M for some of the time she could have  had a new 
mortgage  given it was responsible for the majority of delays during this time. I think 
Fairmead should pay the difference  in interest for the period that Miss M has shown she 
could reasonably have got the mortgage from (October 2019), up to the proposed  time that 
Miss Ms builder could have made the property habitable again,  which  evidence  shows  is 
approximately January 2020.
Claim history  
Miss M wants  Fairmead  to remove her escape  of water claim from the property and herself, 
or if this isnt possible, to compensate her to reflect the increased insurance  premium she 
will have to pay as a result of having  the claim recorded.
Miss M says the escape of water  wasnt her fault and Fairmead agreed to record  it as a no-
fault claim.  Whilst I appreciate Miss Ms reasons for not wanting the claim recorded at all, an 
insurer is obligated to record and report accurate information about an individuals  claim 
history as a fair reflection  of risk. So I wont require Fairmead to remove  this claim.
I would expect Fairmead to apply  any increase  to premium fairly and in line with the risks 
presented by Miss M as the insured  party, in the same way it would for any other  consumer 
in the same position. I havent been provided  with any evidence  to suggest it has done 
anything different to this, so I wont be considering compensation for any increased 
premiums Miss M may pay as a result  of having  this claim  recorded.
Compensation
Fairmead has agreed a total of £1,500 compensation. Miss M says thats  not enough  she 
says she should  be compensated  more for whats happened. 
In determining whether  this offer of compensation is fair, Ive considered  a number of factors. 
Ive looked at any avoidable  delays  in the duration  of the claim. Ive also considered  the 
amount of time spent by Miss M in dealing with the various issues  above what I would 
normally expect to see for a claim of this size.
Based on everything  Ive seen, its clear there have been avoidable delays by Fairmead in 
dealing with this claim.  For the most  part this can be attributed  to the initial  repair work, 
which lasted over a year.  I think this could have been better  monitored  by Fairmead and 
significantly contributed  to the overall  length  of the claim. Ive also noted the number of late 
payments to Miss M for AA rent and some invoices. Whilst  I appreciate the inconvenience to 
Miss M here,  I havent seen evidence of additional financial loss to her as a result.
Ive also considered that Miss M has spent  some time living  in alternative accommodation 
which was smaller than her property   as she was initially told the work would take a few 
months. I understand  the impact  this has had on Miss M but cant  see she raised this issue  
with Fairmead until much  later in the claim. And when she moved  to a different property 
Fairmead continued to cover the monthly  rental  payments  for her. So I cant  reasonably hold 
Fairmead responsible  for Miss Ms living conditions in the smaller property.
Ref: DRN67206395Having weighed everything up, and considering  the overall impact  to Miss M here,  I feel that 
£1,500 is fair for the delays and upset caused  to Miss M during this claim. I appreciate my 
decision here will disappoint  Miss M as she has put a substantial  amount of time and effort 
into this claim. But based  on everything  Ive seen I wont be requiring Fairmead to pay 
anymore compensation than this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss M the difference in her mortgage  rate for the period October 2019 to 
January 2020  at a rate of £45.48 per month;
Pay Miss M an additional 8% interest  on each sum, from the date each payment was 
due, to the date of settlement. For calculation  purposes, Fairmead should assume 
the payment was due on the 1st of each  month  ;
Pay Miss M a total of £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
 Income tax may be payable on any interest  paid.  If Fairmead Insurance Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Miss M how much  has been taken off. Fairmead  
Insurance Limited should give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if applicable.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which 
we tell it Miss M accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before Tuesday 28 April 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6720639