K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  
by Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from March 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  Mr Ss 
complaint. I invited Nationwide and Mr S to send in any further comments  or evidence they 
wanted me to consider by 30 April 2019, before  I reached a final decision.  Mr S didnt send 
in a response, and Nationwide said it had nothing to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither Nationwide nor Mr S provided 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, Ive no reason to change the conclusions  
set out in my provisional decision. So I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66250912COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complained that he was mis-sold  a mortgage  payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
background
Mr S bought the PPI policy when he took out a mortgage in June 1999. Nationwide said that the sale 
took place in a meeting and it did not advise Mr S to take the PPI. Mr S couldnt remember much 
about the sale but said the PPI was completely  unnecessary given his circumstances at the time.
The policy provided  unemployment cover for Mr S at a monthly cost of £10.17.  The monthly  benefit 
was £300.00. If Mr S had made  a successful claim, the policy wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Nationwide disagreed and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
I understand that this will be disappointing to Mr S, but Im not proposing to uphold  his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Nationwide sent copies of Mr Ss mortgage application and offer, together with mortgage statements  
and some sample documents referring to PPI renewals. Mr S said he couldnt  remember much about 
the PPI sale  which  is not surprising as it took place so long ago. But given his employee benefits 
and savings  at the time he felt it was completely unnecessary and thought there must have  been 
some persuasion for him to take the policy. He sent in evidence of his savings and this shows that he 
had the equivalent of about a years salary during the life of the mortgage  with the account being 
closed at about the time the mortgage was repaid in September  2003.
Ive first thought about whether Mr S was given a choice about taking the PPI. The mortgage 
application is printed, so I think its a record of information  gathered verbally during  the meeting. The 
application includes details of the PPI  including  the level of cover and amount of benefit. Ive seen 
other Nationwide sales where PPI was not required and where this was stated on the form.  So I dont 
think the inclusion of the PPI on Mr Ss application  indicates that it was automatically added to the 
mortgage - and given that different levels  of cover were available, I think  there must  have been some 
discussion so as to arrive at a decision  just to cover unemployment. And I think Mr S would  
reasonably have wanted  to look over the printed  application before he signed  it, so I think  he wouldve 
had the opportunity  to query it if he didnt  want the cover at the time.  
Overall I think  its more  likely than not that Mr S was given a choice  about taking the PPI, and decided 
to do so.
Nationwide said it didnt recommend the PPI for Mr S, and I have no evidence to contradict  this. So it 
didnt have to make sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr S. But it shouldve given  him enough  information  
for him to make an informed  choice about it.
I cant  know  how the salesperson  explained  the PPI - especially the things  not covered.  But I cant  
see that Mr S wouldve been affected by any of these.  
Ref: DRN66250913Mr S told us he wouldve  been entitled to sick pay from his employer  of six months full pay followed 
by six months half pay  but as the policy only covered unemployment it seems likely that this was 
taken into account in deciding the level of cover. 
Ive thought about Mr Ss savings  they were equivalent to about a years salary. But as I dont think  
Nationwide recommended the policy, it was for Mr S to decide whether he thought  he needed it  
provided he had enough  information for him to make an informed choice, as Ive said.
The mortgage  application clearly showed the type of cover as unemployment only, the monthly  
benefit as £300 and the benefit period as 12 months. The cost was not stated (but was later included  
on the mortgage offer, albeit at about £2 higher than he eventually paid each month), but I think  Mr S 
would reasonably have wanted some idea of cost during the meeting. 
Whilst I cant know how the salesperson  explained  the terms and conditions of the policy, I think  the 
information on the application was clear  enough for Mr S to understand the basic details  of what he was 
buying, such  that he could  weigh  that up against his savings at the time.
Nationwide also sent in a copy of a mortgage product  recommendation form, which was signed by 
Mr S, and which states that he declined advice about  mortgage  products as he kept in touch with 
market trends and was happy to make his own choice. This seems to me to be consistent  with Mr S 
also making a choice  about  the PPI, as he seems  to have done.  I also note that Mr Ss mortgage was 
on an interest-only basis, so he was required to have some  means  of repaying  the capital at the end 
of the term. It is not clear  whether Mr Ss savings  formed part of his plans in that regard. 
On balance, although I cant know whether Nationwide clearly explained all of the policy details, I 
dont think that wouldve made a difference to Mr Ss decision to take the PPI. 
This means  I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold. So Nationwide  doesnt need  to refund  what 
Mr S paid for it.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not proposing  to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6625091