K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) kept re-reporting a default to 
her credit file even though itd expired.
background
Miss S is unhappy that a default wasnt removed from her credit file. The six-year period had 
ended. But it re-appeared in December 2018.  So she complained  to Halifax. Miss S was 
paid £100 compensation  by the bank. But the default showed again the following month. 
The mistake  affected  Miss Ss applications for work.  She asked for a letter from Halifax  
explaining what had happened.  But she didnt  get it. So she wants  the default removing and 
further compensation.
Halifax said itd arranged  to remove Miss Ss account information from the credit reference  
agencies in November  2018. But thered been an issue with information  being reported 
again by one of the agencies. And Halifax  said it shouldve taken further steps to prevent 
this. So it offered Miss S an additional  £150  compensation to put things right.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see the default kept reappearing even though  
Halifax and the credit agency had deleted it. And although  she could see Halifax  had tried to 
resolve the issue she recommended an additional  £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
Miss S had suffered.
Miss S didnt feel that was enough.  Itd affected her for three months. And Halifax kept 
saying itd been sorted out. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for Miss S. She thought  the default had 
been removed  from her credit file in November 2018. But it reappeared on more than one 
occasion. And Miss S said it kept her from applying for a very well-paid job. So Ive looked 
very carefully at what Miss S and Halifax have said.
The default  shouldve  been removed from Miss Ss credit record in late 2018 after the six-
year limit had expired.  But the default  re-appeared on one of the agencys files. It was 
removed in January  2019 after Miss S complained.  But further action took place on her file 
between 23 and 28 January before the reporting  stopped.
I can see how stressful this mustve been for Miss S. As far as she was concerned  the 
default shouldve  been removed without  any difficulty in 2018. And I can appreciate  how 
frustrating it mustve been to have  to call and email Halifax repeatedly to try and get the 
matter sorted out.
It seems  there was a problem between Halifax and the credit  agency. And Halifax  has 
accepted it shouldve been  aware and done more to make sure the error  didnt re-occur.  But 
the bank feels  its dealt with the complaint fairly.  
Ref: DRN68462882The initial error in December was removed from Miss Ss file. And itd only been re-reported 
for a few days in January 2019. So Halifax feels its offer of an additional £150 is sufficient.
Miss S said her credit  rating was badly affected  by the error.  And she held back  from a job 
application because  of it. I do sympathise with the situation  Miss S found  herself  in. But I 
cant ask Halifax to compensate her for what mightve been. I do appreciate  the amount of 
upset this has caused. But Ive not seen any evidence to show the mistake caused  Miss S 
any actual financial loss.
Miss S said she wanted a letter  from Halifax explaining  why her credit  file was wrong. And 
she never received  one. Halifax  said the problem was fixed  within  a few days. So it shouldnt  
have affected  Miss S if shed been  offered a job and a credit  check  had been carried  out.
And as Ive explained  I cant  consider  what mightve been. I can only look at what has 
actually happened. And see whether Halifax has done enough to put things right.
The error only re-occurred  for a short  period of time.  And Ive not seen anything to suggest  
the default was reported  again after January 2019. But Miss S was affected for a couple  of 
months. She had to make a number  of calls and emails to try and resolve things. And I can 
see how upsetting  and frustrating it was for her. Miss S was put to some inconvenience  and 
upset because Halifax didnt get things right. Although  the error has now been  corrected it 
couldve been avoided.  
Halifax has offered Miss S a further £150  compensation for her trouble and upset. But I dont 
think that goes  quite far enough. I can see our investigator suggested  an additional £100 
due to the length of time and the distress caused. Based on everything Ive seen I think the 
sum of £250  is fair and reasonable. And its within the range of awards our service  would 
make in similar circumstances.
I realise Miss S will be disappointed with this outcome. But having carefully considered  
everything shes said I think thats  the right level of award.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  should pay Miss S £250  
compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6846288