Complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that, following  a claim on their building insurance  policy, Aviva  
Insurance Limited provided them with poor advice. And they say this resulted in damage  to the 
contents of their property and it has refused to cover  the related costs.
Background
I issued  a provisional decision on this matter on 3 February 2020,  an extract of which is copied  
below:
Mr M has brought this complaint on behalf  of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him throughout 
this decision.
Mr M had some work undertaken on his boiler. During the course  of the work,  the engineer  
over-pressurised the boiler  resulting in an explosion and consequent damage to Mr Ms 
property. Mr M made a claim under the buildings insurance policy he has with Aviva to cover  
the damage, which it accepted.
Sometime later the engineers public  liability insurers  agreed to cover the damage related to the 
explosion directly. Aviva proceeded with the work  and were to claim the costs from the other  
insurer.
While work was being undertaken on the house, the water pipes in the property  froze and 
caused a leak, causing further damage  to some of Mr Ms contents. Mr M said Aviva  should  
have installed  heating in the property to prevent  this happening.  Because  of this he said Aviva 
should pay for this additional  damage. But Aviva declined  saying that Mr Ms policy  didnt  
provide cover for contents.
Mr M didnt think  this was fair so he complained to Aviva. Aviva said Mr M had told it he had 
drained the water system and therefore it hadnt  needed to install heating. And because
Mr M had regularly returned  to the property  and turned the water  back on, hed increased the 
risk of experiencing a leak. Because of this, it didnt  think  its loss adjusters had contributed to 
the escape of water. So it didnt  think it had done  anything wrong in declining  to cover  the 
damage to Mr Ms contents.
Mr M remained  unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said Avivas  loss adjuster 
was aware hed regularly turned the water back on and hadnt  warned him not to. He thought  
the loss adjuster should have done  more to warn  of the possible consequences  of his actions. 
And he should  have  arranged for a structural survey of the property to be carried  more quickly 
than he did.
Initially our investigator said she didnt think Aviva had unfairly  declined  the claim as Mr M
had told it the water system had been drained and therefore alternative heating  wouldnt
K822x
Ref: DRN6901073have been required. She said there  was no supporting evidence to say its loss adjustors had 
said it was ok for Mr M to continue using it.
Mr M then produced information from two plumbers who said they thought that heating  
should have been installed as it wasnt possible for the system to be sufficiently drained 
down by Mr M to avoid  the risk of the pipes freezing. Our investigator was persuaded to 
change her opinion  and thought this new evidence meant Aviva should cover  the damage  to 
the contents.
Aviva then submitted  evidence from a firm of forensic investigators which  disagreed with the 
plumbers comments and said that if the system had been drained down  and not regularly 
reinstated by Mr M  it would have been  unlikely there would have been sufficient water  in 
the pipes to cause  a freeze-related fracture.  The investigator reviewed this but wasnt  
persuaded to change her opinion.
Aviva disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so Im likely to reach a 
different conclusion from the investigator. I realise Mr M will find this disappointing so Ill 
explain my reasoning.
My role as an ombudsman at this service is to say how I think a complaint should be 
resolved quickly and with minimal formality. When making a decision on this Ill focus on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. I confirm I have thoroughly  read all the
evidence submitted by the parties  but Ill comment only on those  things I consider relevant to 
the decision I need to make. That means I may not comment on some  of the issues  raised,
or questions  asked, by Mr M.
Mr M accepts his insurance policy only provides cover for his buildings.  And because  it 
doesnt cover his contents, I cant reach  the conclusion that Aviva  should agree to cover the 
contents damage under an insurance  policy.
But I can consider whether Avivas  done  something  wrong that caused a problem or a 
financial loss and whether the impact of this was reasonably foreseeable. Ill deal with what  I 
consider the key areas to be, in turn.
Avivas loss adjuster
Aviva says its not responsible for the damage  caused by the burst  pipes because  Mr M told 
its loss adjuster in January 2018 there  was no water  in the property as it had been  isolated 
and drained. He confirmed this again in March 2018 when Mr M told it by email  he had 
switched off the water system,  had drained  it down and left the taps open.  For this reason it 
says there  was no need to install heating while the repairs to the property were being  
completed. While  the repairs were  ongoing, Mr M lived in alternative  accommodation  paid for 
by Aviva,  so I think it was reasonable it took what Mr M said at face value.
Ref: DRN6901073Mr M argues Avivas  loss adjuster was aware  that he regularly visited  the property, turned 
the water  back on and put the system back into use again before draining  it when  he left.
Theres no record of the conversations Mr M says he had with the loss adjuster. He says 
these all took place  face to face.  The loss adjuster  no longer works for Aviva  and that means 
theres no testimony available from him to consider.  So its difficult to reach a definitive 
conclusion about  what was said in these circumstances, which I appreciate might be 
frustrating for Mr M.
As a general principle  though, a loss adjuster  doesnt act as an advocate for a policyholder, 
they work  for the insurance  company, are employed by and answer to it. I know Mr M thinks  
the loss adjuster should have told him not to continue to use the water system when he 
visited the property.  But Im not persuaded the loss adjusters responsibilities  extended to 
providing general advice about Mr Ms actions or to suggesting that he stop doing it. I say 
this particularly in the light of the fact there was no contents insurance policy  under which he 
had any obligation.
In summary, even if I were to conclude the loss adjuster was aware of what Mr M was doing,  
Im not persuaded he did anything wrong  in not providing Mr M with general advice about
him reinstating the water system.
Evidence from the loss adjuster working for the gas engineers  insurance  company
Mr M provided comments from the loss adjustor employed by the gas engineers insurance 
company, which  Ill call Z. In these comments, the loss adjuster advises Mr M that he doesnt  
consider his employers are responsible  for the damage caused by the burst pipes.  His email  
states:
the incident appears to have been  caused  due to the absence  of a boiler/heating 
system supply at the property..
And for this reason he denies  liability on behalf  of his employers.
I know  Mr M considers this proof that heating  should  have been  installed but I dont agree. 
Im mindful that this loss adjuster wasnt employed  as an independent expert to decide on 
the cause of the damage. He was working  on Zs behalf and his role was to defend Z in 
deciding if it was liable for the water  damage. So I dont consider  his to be an independent 
opinion and I view the comments he made  in support of his employers position through that 
lens.
Our investigator contacted the loss adjuster  for comments. He explained his comments were 
made in defence of Zurichs liability and he wasnt in a position  to comment  on what Aviva  
should have done. For this reason, he said it wouldnt be fair to rely on his comments  with 
regards to Avivas actions. He said a plumber would be better placed to say what  the cause  
of the damage  was.
Ref: DRN6901073Overall, for the reasons Ive explained,  I place less evidential weight on what  Zs loss 
adjuster said and his evidence  doesnt  lead me to conclude Aviva  is responsible  for the 
damage caused by the burst pipes.
Plumbers comments
Mr M asked  two plumbers to give their opinion about  the cause of the problems and he says 
their responses are proof  that Aviva  should  have installed heating  in the property while  the 
work was being  undertaken.
The first plumber  undertook some work on the pipework after the pipes burst.  He 
commented:
the design of the long horizontal run of pipework  is such  that it will always  retain 
some water when the house owner  has shut the main  cold water stopcock and 
opened all the taps. The complete removal of all water out of the pipework is not 
going to be achieved  by the house  owner.  With the property having no heating and 
the severity of the cold weather the consequences  were inevitable
The other plumber  said:
In our experience you can never fully guarantee that a plumbing installation has 
been completely drained down unless you installed it yourself and have personal  
knowledge of where every pipe goes and what every  fitting  does
I acknowledge  what the two plumbers have  said and I accept  that it may not be possible to 
completely drain  water  from a plumbing  installation. Theres  some disagreement about 
whether Aviva originally  offered Mr M help to drain  the system down  Aviva claims it did 
while Mr M claims it didnt. But overall,  Im not persuaded this is relevant to the outcome as 
Mr M went on to repeatedly refill the system anyway. So I dont think whether this help was 
offered or not made a difference in the end.
The evidence supplied  by both Aviva  and Mr M states the pipes burst  in multiple locations 
and this leads me to conclude it more  likely than not that there was a significant amount of 
residual water left in the pipes.
When Mr M repeatedly reinstated the system   thereby refilling the pipes with water  I think 
its more likely than not he increased the level of residual water  left behind even after his 
attempts to drain it each  time he left. It seems  to me that an increase in the level of residual 
water is likely to have resulted in an increased  chance of the pipes bursting. I dont consider 
that to be something I can fairly  or reasonably hold Aviva responsible for.
Evidence from Avivas expert
Aviva employed a forensic  investigations  expert to review the circumstances of the claim. In 
its report it concluded:
In the absence of this alternative heating arrangements in the property, drainage of 
the system would  have been an appropriate cautionary measure
Ref: DRN6901073If this had been done, it would be unlikely for any remaining water  in the system to be 
sufficient to cause a freeze related fracture, due to the small residual volume  present
That it would not be a reasonable  or suitable action to repeatedly reinstate the 
system as doing  this would potentially negate the precautionary effects of draining 
the system down
As Ive explained before, Mr M originally told Aviva hed drained the system down and I 
concluded it was reasonable for Aviva to take this at face value. From this report  I conclude 
that if the system  had been drained  down  as stated by Mr M  it wouldnt have been 
necessary to install alternative heating.
Overall, I think this report supports that its more likely than not that repeatedly reinstating 
the system has contributed to the problems Mr M experienced with his pipes bursting. And 
thats not something I can fairly  or reasonably hold Aviva responsible  for.
Delays in arranging the survey
Mr M says not only is Aviva responsible for the damage caused  by the pipes bursting 
because the loss adjuster didnt provide advice about not reinstating  the water  system, but 
also because it caused a delay in the initial survey being undertaken.
When the loss adjuster  visited the property in mid January 2018,  after the explosion, he 
decided a structural survey was required before any remedial  work could be undertaken. 
Mr M says that after this initial  site visit, the loss adjuster stopped  communicating with him.
Mr M continued to attempt  contact as he wanted to move the claim on as quickly as 
possible. He was living in alternative accommodation by this point and was finding this very 
difficult, a point hed made  clear to the loss adjuster.
It wasnt  until some seventeen  days later the loss adjuster  instructed a surveyor to visit and 
assess the property.  It then took until mid March  2018 before  the survey  was undertaken. I 
havent seen any evidence which explains why it took nearly two months from the reporting  
of the initial incident for the survey  to be undertaken. And I note from an email from the loss 
adjuster to Mr M he says
As previously  advised  it is going  to be very difficult  to explain the 2 month gap between the 
explosion and the escape of water
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont  consider  Aviva responsible  for the burst pipes but I do 
think it caused an unnecessary delay in the survey  being undertaken. This caused Mr M 
trouble and upset  due to the extra time he had to live in a hotel and the inconvenience  and 
distress this caused him. I think Aviva should  recognise the impact of this delay on Mr M and 
Im intending  to ask it to pay him £300  as compensation as a result.
Ref: DRN6901073K821x#15The response  to my provisional decision
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.
Mr M responded in some  detail and disagreed.  Ive summarised his main  comments 
below:
The two plumbers who Mr M had look at his plumbing said a large residual volume 
of water  would have been present in the pipes even after drainage of the system
The pipework was such  that Mr M repeatedly  reinstating  the system had no 
impact  on the volume of residual  water present
Aviva failed to assess the volume of water present in the pipes after he said 
hed drained the water system
He said he doesnt  meet the definition of a competent person - in relation  to the 
draining of a plumbing system  - as described  by Avivas  forensic  investigations 
expert
In conclusion, he reiterates his belief that Aviva should have  installed 
alternative  heating  in the property
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint. Having  done so Im not persuaded to 
change the outcome I reached in my provisional  decision. I realise Mr M will be 
disappointed  by this so Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr M believes  Aviva and its agents had a number of responsibilities  that they didnt fulfil.  
Hes explained  in detail  what  he thinks these are, and his argument appears to be, in 
essence, that the agent  acted negligently.  If indeed  Mr M believes  he has a negligence 
claim  against the agent I consider that a complaint of this nature may be better  for a court 
to decide.  But what I have considered in this decision is what Avivas responsibilities were
under the buildings insurance policy at the heart  of this complaint.
Regardless that Mr Ms plumbers believe there would have been a residual volume of 
water left in the pipes  and that Mr M may not have met the definition  of a competent 
person in relation  to the draining of a plumbing system,  I still disagree with Mr M about 
what Avivas responsibilities were under the buildings  insurance policy.
Mr M told Avivas loss adjuster in January 2018  there was no water in the property as it 
had been isolated  and drained. And he confirmed this again in March. Im satisfied Aviva 
did enough by ensuring Mr M knew  he needed  to drain the water from the plumbing 
system. I remain satisfied Aviva  was entitled to rely on Mr Ms confirmation hed done  
this.
Neither Aviva nor Mr M were familiar with the intricacies of his plumbing  system and I 
wouldnt expect them to be. It was only some time later following a visit by Mr Ms 
plumbers  that it became apparent the pipes in the plumbing system  were such  that there 
would be a residual  volume of water in the system  even after Mr M had drained it. But 
Im satisfied, on balance,  Aviva couldnt  have reasonably  been expected to foresee this 
and what followed  when  the pipes burst was an unfortunate  event  that I dont  hold Aviva  
responsible for.
Ref: DRN6901073In summary, if Mr M had chosen to take out a policy that included contents as well as 
buildings cover then clearly Aviva would  have been  expected to consider his claim. But in 
the absence of this, there is no cover for this claim provided by his buildings  policy. And 
because Im satisfied Aviva couldnt  have reasonably foreseen  the unfortunate event that 
caused the damage I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Aviva to cover the losses 
to his contents.
I remain of the opinion  that Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs M £300 for the delay in the survey 
being undertaken, if it hasnt done  so already.  But Im not going to be asking it to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Aviva  Insurance  Limited to pay
Mr and Mrs M £300 if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 May 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6901073