K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC lost a cheque he asked  the bank to deposit.  It 
caused him considerable expense and effort  to sort things out.
background
Mr J had a US$ cheque from an overseas bank. He paid it into a dollar account with 
Barclays. And he was told the process should  take about six weeks.  The funds were  from a 
house sale overseas.  And Mr J intended to use the proceeds to repay a mortgage in the UK.
The funds didnt arrive.  And Mr J made numerous calls to Barclays trying to find out whatd 
happened. He had to make further mortgage  payments on his existing mortgage.  And he 
had to travel  overseas to sort things out. So he wants  to know what  happened.  And he wants 
compensation for the expenses hes incurred.  
Barclays said Mr J deposited a cheque  for $85250 on 3 September  2018. It contacted  Mr J 
the next day to say the cheque would be processed  as collection which  meant he would 
receive the funds  between four to six weeks later. When Barclays didnt hear anything  it 
chased the intermediary  bank  for a response. And it advised Mr J the best course of action 
might be to issue a new cheque or arrange  for an electronic transfer. Barclays received  an 
update from the intermediary bank in January 2019. It couldnt present the cheque for the 
reason unable to verify. But Barclays wasnt able to provide any further information.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Barclays response. So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He understood the frustration at the inconvenience 
caused. Itd delayed Mr Js mortgage repayment. And hed had to travel back  to the US. So 
he checked if Barclays had followed the correct procedures. He felt Barclays had acted 
within the terms and conditions of the account. Although the delays had caused Mr J 
additional expenses  he didnt think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible. 
Mr J didnt agree. Hed spoken  to the US bank. And it said the cheque  had never  been  
presented. Mr J said Barclays had given it to a third party. And it didnt know whatd 
happened to it after that. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This mustve been  very frustrating for 
Mr J. So Ive looked carefully at everything Mr J and Barclays have said.
After Mr J deposited the US$ cheque  Barclays  contacted him to say it would only be able to 
process the cheque  on a collection basis. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the 
account. And this was the standard way of getting payment for an international cheque.  
The process involved sending the cheque to an intermediary  bank.  Once checks  were 
completed the intermediary would  attempt to retrieve  the funds from the issuing US bank. 
The third party would  then confirm to Barclays whether the cheque  was paid or unpaid.  
Barclays didnt receive the funds.  And it chased  the intermediary four times over a sixty day 
period. I can see Barclays wrote to Mr J on 14 December to say the cheque  collection had 
been outstanding for three  months. And its attempts to obtain reimbursement had been 
unsuccessful. 
Ref: DRN60790792So Barclays  suggested  Mr J might contact  the issuing bank and see if there  was another 
way of transferring  the money.  Mr J said hed tried to arrange an electronic transfer. But he 
had to travel  to the US to do so and the trip cost over £1300.
Mr J was told by the US bank it hadnt received the cheque.  But theres evidence to suggest  
it was presented to his bank. The intermediary has provided a collection letter confirming the 
US bank  wouldve had sight of the cheque.  Ive seen the US banks rejection notice. 
Assuming a US-style  date format the payment was entered on 6 November 2018.  It was 
returned to the intermediary on 7 December 2018  for the reason denied  unable to verify.  
Barclays received a response from the intermediary on 4 January 2019 saying the cheque 
had been rejected. And it wrote  to Mr J to let him know.
I can see Mr J incurred substantial costs and inconvenience  returning to the US. And the 
mortgage repayment was delayed while the funds were transferred through other means. 
Mr J had to make a number of monthly  payments on the mortgage while his funds were 
cleared - although  the final repayment figure  wouldve reduced accordingly.
Mr J is also unhappy Barclays charged  him a fee  even though he never received his 
money. He says Barclays didnt provide the service he expected  when he opened  the dollar 
account. And the £25 compensation for his inconvenience and £10 for his calls doesnt cover 
the costs of travelling  back to the US to sort things out.
I do understand Mr Js frustrations. And Ive looked  carefully at everything  hes said. But my 
role is to see if Barclays has done  anything wrong.  And the failure to clear Mr Js cheque 
seems to have come  from his US bank. Using an intermediary is standard practise  when 
dealing with international currency  cheques. And although the process has taken longer than 
it should have,  I cant really say Barclays is to blame. Its followed its procedures correctly  
and chased a number of times to try and find out what was happening. 
I realise Mr J was told by the US bank that the cheque was never  presented to it. And it 
emailed to say it couldnt find any rejected cheques on its system. But the intermediary bank 
has provided evidence  to suggest the cheque was received  in the US. And the US bank 
rejected it. Its likely it was then destroyed after this had been notified to Barclays. And 
unfortunately neither Barclays nor the intermediary bank have been  able to find out why the 
cheque was rejected  by the US bank.
I know Mr J will be disappointed  with this outcome. He feels  Barclays  should take more 
responsibility. He entrusted his cheque to Barclays until itd been cashed. But based on what  
Ive seen I cant really hold Barclays responsible for whats happened.  It followed the proper 
procedures and chased a number of times  to try and find out where  Mr Js funds had got to. 
Although the US bank told Mr J it never received  his cheque theres evidence to suggest it 
was presented and then rejected in the US. 
Mr J has my sympathy.  But its not been possible to determine why the cheque couldnt  be 
verified. And thats not something I can hold Barclays responsible for. Based on what  Ive 
seen it wouldnt be fair to ask Barclays to reimburse Mr J for the costs  hes incurred. 
While this isnt the result Mr J wanted I hope this shows Ive fully investigated his complaint 
and the reasons behind  my decision. 
Ref: DRN60790793my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6079079