K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Gain Capital UK Limited made  some unfair adjustments on his account. 
He also complains that he wasnt allowed to reopen an old account, and that instead he was 
being forced to open a new account  and deposit more money. 
background 
In 2012 Mr W had a spreadbetting  trading account with a previous brand of Gain  Capital.  He 
stopped trading in January 2012,  but didnt close his account.  
In 2015 Gain acquired a new brand which Ill call A, and it ceased to operate  or offer 
accounts under the previous brand. It migrated all existing accounts to A. But as Mr Ws 
account had been inactive  since January 2012, Mr Ws account  wasnt migrated. When  Mr 
W asked about this he was told that this account could no longer be reactivated, and he 
needed to open a new account with A if he wanted to carry on trading. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ws complaint  during his investigation  Mr W raised  
an additional  concern around  an adjustment made  to his trading account which was 
described as withdrawal. He said he never withdrew  any money from the account. The 
investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns and said:
The adjustment that was made  to his Mr Ws account of over $1,700  was a trade 
adjustment. Whilst given  the time that had passed there was little information about 
why this adjustment had been  made on this particular trade, the investigator said that 
this wasnt uncommon where pricing  errors  occurred. And he said he was satisfied 
Gains terms allowed it to do this if necessary. The investigator  said that Mr W 
wouldve been notified of this adjustment and wouldve seen it on his account   so he 
considered it more likely than not that if Mr W had reason to consider the adjustment 
had been done  incorrectly or unfairly, he wouldve raised it at the time. Instead  Mr W 
carried on trading   indicating he accepted the adjustment  was warranted. However, 
the investigator said that Gain had acknowledged that it had incorrectly  told Mr W 
and this service that this was a withdrawal from the account  and so it had offered 
Mr W £150 to compensate for the miscommunication. 
In relation to Mr Ws concerns about  having  to open a new account, the investigator 
acknowledged that Gain had made a commercial decision not to migrate  inactive  
accounts to its new branding  in 2015.  As Mr W hadnt traded in over three years,  his 
account was not migrated over and could no longer be reopened. He was given the 
option in 2016 of opening a new account  but he was told that he wouldnt be able to 
re-open his old accounts, although he could be sent past statements from that 
account if he wanted them. The investigator  also acknowledged Mr Ws concerns  
over the number of brand names Gain had  but said that Gain  was duly registered  
on the regulators database. 
Gain agreed with the investigator,  but Mr W didnt.  In short,  he said:
The fact that Gain had tried to mislead  the investigator demonstrated its intention  to 
commit fraud and illegally  acquire his money.  
Not enabling  him access to his previous account unless he opened a new account 
and deposited  money also indicated that Gain was a professional scammer and 
fraudster.
Ref: DRN68667242The investigator explained that he didnt  consider  Gain had deliberately tried to mislead  the 
service, and confirmed that it was a legitimate business. He said that funds  that Mr W had 
previously deposited  in his account  before 2012 had all been lost through  trading, and this 
could be seen from the account  summary  and detailed statements. He confirmed to Mr W 
that hed be unlikely to obtain  further  information  about the trade  in question.  
Mr W said that he remained convinced that particular trade was a scam and caused him a 
loss. However, he said he had confidence  in the United Kingdoms transparency, and that 
this was a motivation and pillar of his investment.  He said he accepted  the compensation 
awarded by the investigator, and said he would donate it in advance.  But he said that he 
would only accept this offer on condition that the Queen endorsed  the investigators unfair 
decision and approved it as financial policy within her Kingdom.  If the Queen  was unwilling 
to endorse the investigators offer, he would likewise reject it. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Im afraid I also dont have much  to add to what the investigator has already said. 
Unfortunately theres little to no information as to why that particular adjustment  was made to 
Mr Ws account in 2011. Ive thought about  whether this means I ought to assume that it was 
done incorrectly, but that wouldnt  be fair. Ultimately Mr W was made aware  at the time that 
the adjustment had been made and likely wouldve been told why. He couldve chosen to 
query the explanation or the amount if he thought it was unfair, and this wouldve allowed 
Gain an opportunity some  eight years  ago to explain it. Mr W didnt query  it  and instead 
carried on trading. I agree  that on balance this indicates that he was probably happy  with the 
adjustment and why it was made.  
I dont agree with Mr W that Gains initial explanation to this service  that this was a 
withdrawal from the accounts means  that it had deliberately tried to mislead the service. 
Given how long ago it happened,  and given that the statement entry  does say withdraw, I 
can understand why it made the mistake  it did when it explained it to us. That said,  given  the 
circumstances, I think  Gains offer of £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
impact this mistake had on Mr W. 
In terms of Gain capitals  re-branding and acquisition of another company, here too Im not 
sure theres much for me to add. Gain made a commercial decision in 2015  that it would no 
longer operate the previously branded accounts, and would migrate them over.  
However, it also decided  that it wouldnt do this for accounts that had been  inactive for a 
period of time. Mr W hadnt traded or made any deposits or withdrawals to his account since  
January 2012.  So Gain decided not to migrate his account over.
I can understand it was upsetting for Mr W when he tried to log-in to his old account and he 
couldnt. And I can also understand why initially he wasnt sure why he was being  told that 
he had to open a new account instead  of being able to re-open  the old one. And I have 
some sympathy in relation to Mr Ws concerns around branding and different trading styles. I 
agree that particularly  in this sector they can sometimes be confusing. 
Ref: DRN68667243However, none of this was unfair  on Mr W. He wasnt deprived  of his ability to trade, or 
deprived of any cash in his old account  as there wasnt any. And he was told clearly what 
he needed to do should he wish to resume trading with Gain. It was his decision not to open 
a new account.  Im satisfied this doesnt  indicate  that Gain was trying  to scam Mr W or do 
anything untoward.  
my final decision
My final decision is that the award  of £150 put forward  by Gain Capital UK Limited is fair and 
reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6866724