K821x#15complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain  that a car they acquired with a hire purchase agreement  from Go 
Car Credit Limited (GCC) was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 18 April 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and this forms 
part of my final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the parties. GCC accepted  my 
provisional findings and has nothing further to add. Mr M and Ms M dont agree however and 
say (in summary)  
they signed the finance agreement before they got the car and the mileage  on 
collection was higher than theyd been  led to believe;
they werent able to drive the car anything like 7,000 miles between September  and 
December 2017;
they stopped using  the car in December 2017  because of faults. Mr M only drove it 
once after that - in April 2018 - to an inspection at a local garage (who  refused a test 
drive because  the car was unsafe); 
the inspection  was carried out under false pretences. The expert contacted Mr M to 
arrange to see the car at a local garage  initially then the dealer collected it to ensure  
the inspection  took place at the dealership; 
the car hadnt  started for three  weeks  before the inspection but the expert was 
somehow able to take it on a ten mile test drive;
the car passed  his inspection yet it wasnt running again when they went to collect
the garage manager told Mr M the car still had faults and he wouldnt have said that if 
there was nothing wrong with it;
the battery had to be replaced after the inspection which shows  somethings not right 
and GCC agreed  the inspection  should  be void at the time and arranged to have  a 
new battery fitted;
they contacted  GCC consistently about the trouble they had after the inspection but 
the case handler left and the new one wouldnt say why or discuss  the inspection  any 
further; 
they are in severe financial difficulty as they had to keep paying for the car after they 
stopped driving  and pay for other forms of transport at the same time. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr M and Ms M that I have considered everything they have said carefully. I 
am afraid however this hasnt changed my mind  about what should happen here and Ill 
explain why below. 
Where the parties  disagree about  what happened I have made my decision  on the balance 
of probabilities - in other  words, what I think is most  likely based on the evidence I have seen 
and the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN65705482the experts inspection
I understand Mr M and Ms M feel this inspection  was either  inadequate  or falsified in some 
way. Our investigator approached the expert  about  some of the issues  they raised but he 
was unable to verify  that the car was in the condition they describe when he saw it. And, for 
the reasons set out in my provisional  decision,  I still think its reasonable to give some weight 
to the experts  evidence.  I am not satisfied that there  are reasonable grounds to question  his 
conclusion that the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. 
the car battery
The dealer  doesnt dispute that the car wouldnt start when Mr M went  to collect it after the 
inspection. I understand  Mr M and Ms M feel this was due to an inherent  and undiagnosed 
defect that was present when they got the car. But, the dealer says the battery  was flat 
because the car hadnt been driven  for a while.  
Given the car started (and seems  to have been  driven for some time) after the battery was 
replaced, I remain of the view that its more likely  than not a flat battery  was the reason the 
car wouldnt start at this time. I accept  GCC arranged  for that battery to be replaced at no 
cost to Mr M and Ms M. But, I am not persuaded this means GCC accepted the there  was 
something wrong with the car or the inspection. As far as I can see, the battery was replaced  
in an effort  to resolve this matter and I think that was reasonable. 
mileage
In my provisional findings, I said it looked  as if Mr M and Ms M were able to drive  the car 
about 7,000 miles after they got it. I felt this seemed  inconsistent with the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the outset. Mr M says the car had more miles on the clock  than the 
dealer told them originally and they werent  able to travel anything like 7,000 miles. 
If the mileage on the odometer on collection was significantly higher than Mr M and Ms M 
had been led to believe, Id expect them to have said so at the time but I cant see that they 
raised this. The finance  agreement doesnt  record the cars mileage on delivery. But, it looks  
(from the paperwork Ive seen) as if this was around 89,000 miles.
The expert recorded the odometer reading as 91,192 miles when he inspected  the car at the 
start of November 2017. So, even if I were to accept  the car had more  than 89,000  miles on 
the clock at point  of supply, I am not persuaded its likely to have been much more  than that 
- given the mileage  noted by the expert  around  two months later.
Mr M sent us a photograph showing  the odometer  reading in June last year was 96,913 
miles. So, I am satisfied  this car appears  to have been able to travel  around another  6,000  
miles after the experts inspection. And I remain of the view that covering this sort of distance 
seems inconsistent with the presence of an ongoing,  inherent fault. 
On balance overall, for the reasons set out in my provisional findings, I remain of the view 
that theres not enough evidence here to reasonably find this car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. This means I cant reasonably require GCC to pay for repairs  
or take it back for a refund.  
Ref: DRN65705483I realise this decision  will disappoint  Mr M and Ms M, as its not the outcome  they wanted.  
And Im sorry to hear of the financial difficulties they are experiencing. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I would expect GCC to treat Mr M and Ms M positively and 
sympathetically going forwards. This might include arranging to take the car back in the most 
cost effective way for Mr M and Ms M and/or  agreeing  a suitable repayment plan for any 
balance. 
I encourage Mr M and Ms M to get in touch with GCC about their financial situation,  if they 
havent done so already. They may find it helpful  to get some help from a free source  of 
money advice and we can provide information  about that if they would like it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65705484copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr M and Ms M complain  that a used car they acquired with finance from Go Car Credit Limited 
(GCC) was of unsatisfactory  quality when they got it. 
background
Mr M and Ms M got this car with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from GCC  in the middle of 
September 2017. They  had problems  not long after it was delivered and reported the following  issues 
a broken wing mirror; 
the front lower grill is cracked and theres water leaking from the underside  of the vehicle;
the power steering/anti-lock braking system fails in moving traffic  causing the brakes to lock; 
the battery died, the car had to be recovered  three times and they were  advised  by a 
mechanic to replace  the battery  and alternator;
after the car was recovered the third time it would  not start,  had to be jump  started and 
wouldnt keep running;   
the bonnet is unsecured  and shaking causing damage to the top of the bumper; and
when the bonnet is completely closed heres  a large gap because  the front bumper is mis-
aligned.
Mr M thought  the car might  have been involved in an accident. He says it is unsafe and unfit for 
purpose. He wanted to reject  the car within the first 30 days and, dissatisfied  with the dealers 
response, he complained  to GCC near the end of September 2017.
GCC instructed  an expert to check the car and that inspection took place at the start of November 
2017. The expert  confirmed the wing mirror  was damaged and there  were cosmetic issues at the front 
of the cab. But, he didnt find a leak or any sign of a collision and he didnt have any trouble  with the 
ABS. He considered  the car was of satisfactory quality  for its age and mileage at the point of supply. 
GCC said it couldnt take the car back when  no fault had been  found. It refunded around £150 as a 
goodwill gesture.  
Mr M says the car broke down again  within  days of getting it back. He had to jump  start it routinely 
after that and they had trouble with the brakes in January 2018. They  took the car to a local garage 
for diagnostic  checks and discovered theres a problem with the tensioner and the alternator may be 
faulty. Mr M thinks this underlying issue was present  when they got the car. He has lost earnings as 
hes been unable  to drive  the car to work  at times and they are worried its not safe. They want GCC  
to take the car back  and provide a refund.  
Our investigator accepts  the expert didnt find any faults when he looked at the car. But she thinks it is 
reasonable to take all of the evidence into account,  including the issues Mr M and Ms M have 
reported. She doesnt think  the battery would  have  run flat again so soon after being replaced  without 
an underlying  fault. On balance, shes satisfied  the car probably has an underlying battery-related 
problem thats been there since supply.  She recommends  GCC should  take the car back and refund 
any deposit  plus interest  along with any monthly payments made  since April 2018,  when Mr M and Ms 
M stopped using the car.   
GCC doesnt think  thats  a fair outcome. It says the expert found the car performed and handled as 
expected for its age and mileage in November  2017.  And, given the time thats passed since, its for 
Mr M and Ms M to show that the car has faults that were  present at the outset.  
GCC believes the brake repairs are service-related and the expert would have noticed a tell-tale 
sound if there  was something  wrong with the tensioner when he looked at the car in November 2017. 
It considers the issues complained about would  have been evident much sooner if theyd been there 
when the car was supplied. And asked for an ombudsman to review the matter
My provisional findings
Ref: DRN65705485Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Where the parties disagree  about what happened I have made my provisional findings  on the balance 
of probabilities  - in other words, what I think is most likely based on the evidence I have seen  and the 
wider circumstances.  
Mr M and Ms M bring this complaint about GCC because they think  the car it supplied under  a HPA 
was faulty  when they got it. I can see Mr M and Ms M are unhappy with some of the dealers after-
sales service  as well. So, I should make it clear at the outset that Im unable to look at that here. In 
this decision I am only considering GCCs  obligations arising out of the finance agreement. 
GCC was required under  legislation  to ensure  that this car was of satisfactory quality  when it was 
supplied. The level of quality thats considered  satisfactory will vary depending  on circumstances. But, 
its generally considered reasonable to take the age, mileage and price  paid for a car into account. In 
this case  the car was 7 years old, cost just over £8,000 and had around 89,000 miles  on the clock 
when it was supplied. 
 
I think  a reasonable person  would appreciate that a car like this wasnt going  to meet the same level 
of quality  as a new car. Some parts are likely to be worn and need to be repaired or replaced sooner  
or later. And the presence of this general  wear and tear is reflected in the lower price paid for a used 
vehicle.
Mr M says he noticed some  damage when he collected this car - a wing mirror was broken. He 
mentioned it to the dealer  who agreed to send out a replacement. Mr M told us he knows people in 
the motor trade so he thought that should be fixed easily enough. And I think Mr M and Ms M were 
probably happy to accept the car knowing this damage was present. 
Not long after he started driving  the car Mr M found other damage  that he thought  suggested it had 
had a serious collision in the past and wasnt repaired properly. He was understandably worried  by 
that and raised his concerns  with the dealer and GCC. The car broke down three times and Mr M told 
GCC it needed repairs  to the radiator  and a new battery, amongst other things, which would probably 
cost £1,400. 
GCC asked  for written estimates for these repairs  but those werent  supplied.  GCC  offered to arrange  
for the car to be inspected by a third party expert and I think that was a reasonable step at this stage. 
I can see GCC also organised  for Mr M and Ms M to have  the use of a courtesy  car while theirs went 
in for checks - which seems fair.   
the experts inspection in November  2017
Theres some dispute about the condition the car was when the expert inspected. Mr M says it had 
been off the road for three  weeks because it wouldnt  start so the dealer had to collect it. And I know 
Mr M thinks the dealer  may have done  something to the car before the inspector looked at it - to make 
sure it passed  the inspection.
I cant  be certain what happened exactly. But, if the car had to be jump-started  when the expert saw it, 
Id expect him to say so in his report. He doesnt. So, we asked  the expert about this specifically. The 
expert doesnt  recall this test drive  in particular but confirmed he would have mentioned  it if the car 
didnt start.  
From speaking to Mr M, I have the impression he feels the dealer may have started  the car out of 
sight of the expert - so he wouldnt  necessarily  have known  if the car had to be jump-started before  
the test drive. I think thats unlikely. The expert says he took the car for a ten mile test drive to a local 
garage where he put it up on a ramp to inspect  the underside. He would have had to start the car up 
again after that - to be able to drive  back to the dealership. And I think its more likely  than not the car 
must have started  unaided at this time. 
Ref: DRN65705486Im satisfied this expert was independent and seems to have relevant  experience. I think  the report he 
provided is detailed and makes sense and it is reasonable to give some weight to his evidence in 
these circumstances.  The expert was satisfied the car had not been involved in an accident  and he 
was unable to verify the other  faults reported.  He acknowledged some cosmetic issues were present  
but concluded the car was of satisfactory quality  for its age and mileage. 
I understand the car wasnt running  again when Mr M went to collect it after the inspection. The dealer 
has acknowledged thats correct. But, it says the battery was flat because  the car wasnt driven during 
the two weeks between the inspection and Mr M picking  it up. The dealer replaced the battery  and I 
think that seems fair. Given the cars age and mileage, I am not minded to find this means  it had an 
underlying fault. I think its more likely  the battery was worn and needed replacing.    
ongoing issues
Mr M told us the car broke down again  within  a week of him collecting  it after the inspection. It 
continued to fail to start over the following months - he says he had to regularly jump-start the car to 
travel the twenty miles  or so to work  and back. 
In January 2018 they saw smoke coming from the underside of the car and had to replace brake pads 
and a twisted disc. Mr M says a friend did this work and told him the brakes  were in the worst 
condition he had seen.  In April Mr M took the car to a local garage for diagnostic checks. He was told 
theres something wrong with the tensioner and the car probably has a faulty alternator.  
I have no doubt all of this has been really inconvenient  and stressful  for Mr M and Ms M. Mr M says 
he contacted GCC numerous times about these issues between  November 2017 and April 2018 - 
which is what  Id expect in this situation. He wasnt been able to provide much detail unfortunately - 
such as the dates  of any calls/related phone records or other paperwork. So I asked to see GCCs 
customer records.  
I accept customer contact  notes  are, by their very nature,  a summary  of any contact that takes place. 
But, Id expect  notes such as these to at least record when contact was made and log the reason(s) 
for that taking  place. I think the notes GCC has supplied are relatively detailed  and seem consistent  
with events.    
According to these  notes Mr M and Ms M didnt contact GCC after they took the car back in 
November until the middle of January 2018. They phoned  then to say the brakes  needed work.  GCC  
thought the repairs required  sounded like service items and it shouldnt be expected to cover those.  
And Mr M appears  to have accepted that and agreed to have the work  done himself. 
Mr M rang GCC  again in February  to say he remained dissatisfied with the car - but theres  no note of 
any specific  issue  being  raised.  At the end of April Mr M told GCC  he was having the car checked  by 
a local garage and would provide a diagnostic report. A few days  later he called  again  to say he 
couldnt do so as the garage was unable to run diagnostic checks - because of the tensioner issue.  Mr 
M asked if GCC would pay to have the tensioner fixed. GCC said it wouldnt  normally do so - as it was 
now more than six months after supply. But, it offered to reimburse the cost if the repairs provided  
evidence that theres an inherent fault.  
It looks as if Mr M and Ms M - who had raised  a complaint with this service  by this point - were worried 
theyd lose the right to reject the car if it was repaired. I think there may have been some financial 
worries about the cost of those repairs  as well. I can see they were having some repayment issues in 
respect of the finance itself.  In any event, Mr M and Ms M decided to keep the car off the road at this 
point.    
was this car of un satisfactory quality when it was supplied? 
Ref: DRN65705487In light of the experts  findings, Im satisfied GCC has provided evidence  that suggests the car wasnt 
faulty - not long after it was supplied. I accept this doesnt mean no faults were present. But, Id need 
to see fairly compelling evidence  to the contrary in order  to reasonably conclude that this car probably 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the outset.  
I understand the car broke down three times and had to be recovered soon after Mr M and Ms M got 
it. I asked  Mr M if he could provide any information from a recovery service or garage that might have 
attended the car on these occasions but I understand he was helped  by a friend. So theres no official 
paperwork that could help me to work out what might have  gone wrong  with the car at that stage. 
Im satisfied Mr M was aware of the damaged mirror and I think he must  have been happy to accept 
that - but even if I were  to find he was not I consider the £150 GCC  refunded more than covers this 
item. Im satisfied the dealer replaced the battery when it ran flat in November and I think  brake  pads 
and discs  are generally considered wear and tear items. So I am not persuaded  it would  be 
reasonable to find the car can be rejected on those grounds.  
This brings me to what is I think is really the crux of the matter - whether the car has another 
underlying fault that means it was of unsatisfactory quality at the point  of supply. Its unfortunate that 
the local garage  wasnt  able to run the diagnostic  checks Mr M wanted  in April 2018.  This means the 
only evidence Ive got from the garage is an invoice dated July 2018. 
That says the garage found the battery is flat and the auxiliary belt is damaged  due to a tensioner 
fault which needs to be repaired before the alternator can be tested. The garage doesnt offer any 
view on when  this problem arose or estimate the cost of repair. So I asked Mr M to provide some 
more information about that. Hes been  unable to do so unfortunately although  hes indicated its likely  
to cost more than £800  to fix. 
Mr M told us the issue  with the tensioner belt/alternator caused a loud knocking sound.  I think  thats 
unlikely to have been present when  the expert checked the car - or he would have noticed. I 
appreciate Mr M says this noise  only started in December - after the experts  inspection. And they 
didnt realise it was a problem  at first as its a diesel car. But I would  expect any knocking  sound to 
cause concern for a driver - all the more so in this situation  when Mr M and Ms M were  already 
worried about  this car. 
I cant  see that this was reported to GCC (or the dealer) until April 2018. I think that suggests  this is 
probably the time when it became apparent. Mr M has told us there was about 97,000 miles  on the 
clock by that stage. So, it looks as if they were able to travel around 1,000  miles  a month in the seven 
months between September 2017 and April 2018. Thats about average mileage  and it doesnt 
suggest a significant loss of use. 
On balance, I think  it is unlikely this car could have travelled as far as it did if it was faulty  at the point 
of supply. I accept Mr M and Ms M have had some  trouble with the car. But I think  these issues sound 
more likely  to be wear  and tear related than faults - in a car of this age and mileage. 
Im afraid I just havent got enough evidence at the moment  to reasonably  conclude that this car was 
of unsatisfactory quality  when  it was supplied.  This means I cant  fairly find GCC  should have to take 
it back and provide a refund or pay for repairs.   
I understand the car has now been off the road for some time. Mr M told us relatively recently  that 
another vehicle crashed  into the car while  it was on the driveway, causing damage. He says the car is 
not worth repairing now so they should be allowed to reject it. 
I am sorry  to hear about whats happened. But, Im afraid this doesnt really  impact on my provisional 
findings as its not something I can reasonably hold GCC liable for. I understand the car wasnt 
insured and I can see this probably  leaves Mr M and Ms M in a tricky  position. If they find it difficult to 
repay what they owe Id expect GCC to treat them positively and sympathetically. This may include 
Ref: DRN65705488arranging to take the car back in the most cost-effective way for Mr M and Ms M - and putting  a 
suitable repayment plan for any shortfall in place. 
I realise these  provisional findings are likely  to come as a huge disappointment  to Mr M and Ms M. 
And I am sorry if they feel let down. But, I would  stress  this is not my final decision.  I invite both 
parties to think about what I have said and let me have any further comments  or information  by the 
date below. After that date, I will consider all of the available evidence again and make my final 
decision.   
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I may receive from the 2 May 2019,  my provisional decision  is I do 
not intend  to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN6570548