K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that a default has been  registered on his loan account by Oakbrook 
Finance Limited,  trading  as Likely  Loans. He says he didnt receive a notice of default  and 
wants it removed. 
background
Mr D took out a loan over two years with Oakbrook in June 2017. 
Payments were made on time until October 2017 when Mr D fell behind with them.  He 
contacted Oakbrook who agreed a reduced monthly  payment for three months.  This plan 
was broken in January 2018 when the direct  debit was returned  unpaid. At this point,  
Oakbrook agreed  to extend the reduced payment plan until March  and payments were 
received. 
In April 2018, Mr D let Oakbrook know that his financial  circumstances  had improved 
meaning he was able to make  payments  of the contractual  amount for three  months starting 
in May 2018.  By this time, due to the reduced payments that had been  made,  arrears  of over 
£500 had accumulated.  Mr D said he would be able to make increased  payments in order  to 
clear this amount.  
Mr D made  the contractual payments over the next three months, but was unable to make 
any increased payments  meaning the arrears  werent cleared. Oakbrook sent Mr D a Notice 
of Sums in Arrears by letter and email  on 2 July 2018. No further  payments were  made  and 
so Oakbrook issued  a Notice of Default by letter later that month on 25 July 2018. This 
stated that Mr D needed to remedy the breach of his agreement  by 11 August 2018. 
Mr D called Oakbrook on 27 July 2018.  He hadnt received the default notice at this stage.  
During this call he agreed to pay an increased  amount over the next three months in order to 
clear the loan arrears.  The arrangement started on 20 August 2018 and was due to be 
completed on 20 November 2018,  but the direct  debit for September was returned unpaid.  
The payment arrangement was removed and the account was defaulted on 25 September  
2018. 
Mr D spoke to Oakbrook on 1 October  2018 when  they told him his account  was in default.  
Mr D was unhappy that he hadnt  been  told about  this previously, especially during the call 
he had on 27 July 2018, when they would have known the notice had been sent. 
Oakbrook apologised for not telling Mr D about  the default during his call with them.  They 
said the letter had already  been sent by that point and that the default had been  applied 
correctly taking into account the history  of missed payments and the fact that at the time of 
default Mr D had exceeded the loan term by three months. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Oakbrook had acted correctly in applying the default. 
He agreed they couldve  done  better  by emailing all documents to Mr D, and by telling him 
about the default notice  during  their phone conversation,  however overall  he felt they had 
acted fairly.  
Mr D disagreed with the investigator, so the matter has been passed to me for review. 
Ref: DRN65492612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds agreement set out what  will happen  if payments  are 
missed. They say: 
1.   If you are late paying any amount due under this Agreement, you may be liable to 
pay us our reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with the enforcement  
of this Agreement.
2.   If:
    You fail to pay your repayments or any other amounts payable under this Agreement 
as they fall due
we will have the right to demand  immediate payment of the unpaid balance  of the total
amount payable less any applicable  rebate.  We will first send you a default notice where  we
are required  to do so under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
I can see that both the Notice of Sums in Arrears and the Notice of Default were sent to Mr D 
at the address Oakbrook  had on file. I understand Mr D had asked for communication  to be 
sent by email, and the Notice of Default was only sent by post. Mr D has said that his father 
has the same name as him, and that he opened the letters in error,  meaning Mr D didnt see 
them and so wasnt aware of the default.  
Because of this, I agree it wouldve been  helpful for Oakbrook to send Mr D the Notice  of 
Default by email, however  as Mr D lives at the address they sent it to, I cant say that Mr D 
wouldnt have received it. And they sent the Notice of Sums in Arrears by email;  so he 
wouldve been aware that a Notice of Default might  be issued if he didnt bring the account  
up to date. 
I also agree  that the adviser shouldve  let Mr D know about the default during their 
conversation in July. Oakbrook has acknowledged  this and has provided feedback. 
Having considered everything, although I think Oakbrook could have communicated with 
Mr D a little better, I am satisfied they acted fairly and correctly when his account went  into 
arrears. Each time Mr D wasnt  able to make his contractual payments Oakbrook agreed a 
reduced payment  with him. This was done  a few times, until the September payment was 
returned unpaid,  sending the account into arrears. Oakbrook then issued the correct 
documents giving  Mr D due warning, and it applied the default correctly.  
Because of this, I wont be asking Oakbrook to remove the default. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Danielle Padden
Ref: DRN65492613ombudsman
Ref: DRN6549261