K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Standard Life Assurance  Limited  (Standard Life) mis-sold him a decreasing 
term life assurance policy. 
background
In July 1995 Mr M took out a decreasing term life assurance policy. This policy was taken 
out to cover  a £32,500 repayment mortgage that would pay off the outstanding balance  
remaining if Mr M had died during the 25-year term. It costed £9.13 per month. It was a 
condition of the lending for Mr M to take out a life policy when he took out his mortgage.
Mr M is unhappy  that his policy will not pay out a lump sum when  the policy ends in 2020. 
He says he was told this policy would pay out a healthy sum when it ended, and he wanted a 
policy with this benefit. He thought the policy he was sold would do this.  
Standard Life says Mr M chose to take out a basic life assurance policy and it thinks it was 
suitable for his needs. It also says that it was clear from the paperwork that the policy  had no 
cash value and would only pay out on death  during  the term. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. He felt there wasnt  any 
evidence from the sale that suggested this policy would pay out when the term ended,  so he 
couldnt uphold  the complaint based solely on what Mr M had said.  Mr M didnt  agree  with 
this opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I dont think  Standard  Life 
should pay Mr M any compensation.  Ill explain  why. 
Mr M has provided a lot of detail  in support of this complaint.  So I dont doubt the strength of 
feeling. Ive read and considered everything he has said. However,  it may be helpful to 
explain that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every point thats been made  its 
only to provide my conclusions and reasons for them. So while Id like to reassure Mr M that 
Ive thought carefully about everything hes said throughout this complaint, my final findings 
will be expressed in considerably less detail.
Mr M says that when he was sold the life cover, he was told it would pay out a lump  sum to 
on its expiry if the policy hadnt  been  claimed  on. He says he specifically wanted  a policy  that 
had this benefit. And I accept that (24 years on) this is how Mr M might remember  the sale. 
But what  Mr M has said isnt enough  for me to uphold the complaint. I must look at both 
sides to decide  whats more likely to have happened. 
All the paperwork available from the sale of the policy  records that Mr M took out a life 
assurance policy which would decrease  in cover  amount over the 25-year term in line with 
his repayment  mortgage; and would  pay out in the event my Mr M died during the term. This 
also includes  a policy illustration which clearly  states these policies carry no surrender value 
at any time. 
Ref: DRN69624952Standard Life say Mr M wouldve received these documents  during  the sale process  as that 
was their usual process. But Mr M says he never  saw these documents.  In any event, Ive 
also seen a copy of a letter addressed to Mr M from July 1995  which  sets out the main 
details of the policy, including the sum assured, the term of the policy  and the monthly 
premium. As this letter is relevant to Mr Ms specific policy  and is correctly  addressed,  I think  
its likely  he wouldve received this letter. There is nothing  in this letter to indicate  the policy 
would pay out anything at the end of the term. And I think its likely Mr M wouldve 
questioned this at the time if he had thought  he was taking  out a policy  that would pay a 
lump sum cash benefit at the end of the term. 
So having  looked at everything  Ive not seen  any evidence  from the sale that suggests Mr M 
was led to believe he would receive  a pay out at the end of the term, and I think he agreed to 
take out a decreasing term life assurance policy.   
Mr M says the fact that he continued to make  payments on his policy  after his mortgage was 
paid off shows that he believed the policy wouldve  paid out when the term expired. But as 
Ive said above,  there  isnt any evidence from the time of sale which  suggests  Mr M was led 
to believe this. It may be that by the time Mr M had paid off the mortgage he had forgotten  
what the policy had been taken out for. But in any event, I havent seen evidence  that 
Standard Life mis-lead Mr M into believing this at the point  of sale, so this point doesnt 
change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6962495