K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mr G. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1994 alongside a store credit account. FICL  
says Mr G was sold the PPI by phone. Mr G denies that he agreed by phone to the PPI. Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr G has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why.
FICL says its records show that the PPI was sold by phone.  Mr G says that this is not true 
and that he didnt agree to PPI by phone,  although  he has said he was told he had to 
complete the process of setting up of his credit account by phone.
This did all happen  about 25 years  ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt 
remember the detail  of everything that happened that long ago. So it will be difficult to know  
how much  weight I can put on such recollections, even though I dont doubt they are 
genuinely held.  And, if Mr G had been charged  PPI premiums, these would have appeared 
on his account  statement, and he would have had the opportunity to question them. So, 
although not strong evidence, it would suggest he might have been aware  of the PPI at the 
time, even  if he doesnt now remember  though  I also accept that many people  dont 
carefully check their statements, or some  people wouldnt anyway  have understood that this 
related to an insurance premium. 
More importantly, where someone has said another person or organisation has done  
something wrong, fairness  requires that the person making the allegation  should  present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they 
didnt do something,  especially when it was such a long time ago. Without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly  say the PPI was added without Mr Gs consent. 
Although Mr G is certain that he didnt agree to the PPI, Ive still checked to see whether 
there are other reasons  the PPI was mis-sold. But I dont think these apply in his case:
 
It doesnt seem that FICL would have recommended the PPI as being  particularly 
suitable for Mr Gs individual needs. This means  it didnt  have  to check if the PPI fitted 
his circumstances.  It would have been  for Mr G to decide whether it was suitable.
Ref: DRN62782642However FICL did need  to give Mr G clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. And I dont know how much  detail the adviser actually gave during any 
phone call. So Ive thought about  whether full information is likely to have made  a 
difference. But in Mr Gs circumstances at the time, even if hed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely  to have made a difference to whether he 
took PPI. (This is assuming he was given a choice  which  I accept he says didnt 
happen.) I say this because its fairly  likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer  
than his full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have  been  in addition to any 
employer sick pay or redundancy pay. And it would have meant  he could have kept any 
savings in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt  look like hed have been affected  by any of 
the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have  seemed  
potentially useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6278264