K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his motor insurance  policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr M had a policy with Advantage. When it was due to renew  he went online and received a 
cheaper quote through a price comparison website. Mr M bought that policy. Advantage later 
noted that Mr M had incorrectly entered his date of residency in the UK when buying the 
policy online. It told him that if hed entered the correct date it would  have charged  him 
around £118 more.  So it said he needed to pay that amount.
Mr M didn't think that was fair and bought  his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think 
that Advantage had applied the appropriate  law correctly. And as Mr Ms policy  had since 
lapsed she said it should refund the additional premium  Advantage  charged, add simple 
interest to that sum and pay Mr M £50 compensation. Advantage eventually accepted the 
adjudicators recommendation. But Mr M didn't think it went far enough so the complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. My 
award will be the same as the adjudicator  recommended. 
When looking for a quote on the comparison website  Mr M said hed lived in the UK since  
birth, when that wasn't the case.  It seems  that Mr M didn't realise that the date he came  to 
live in the UK could  be a relevant factor that insurers would consider when offering policies. 
But I don't  think  he did so deliberately or recklessly.  And mistakes  of this nature are known in 
the insurance industry as careless misrepresentations. 
Theres legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA)  which sets out what  insurers may do in such a situation where a consumers 
made a careless  misrepresentation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that they will settle  any future claims on a proportionate  basis  (or 
apply other exclusions or limitations they would  otherwise have applied). But if the 
consumer isnt happy with that approach, they can cancel  the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, as Advantage did. 
Instead we think  its reasonable for an insurer to tell to the consumer theres a problem and 
give them  the option of paying  the additional premium  or otherwise to cancel the policy  
themselves. Mr M told us that he phoned  Advantage to cancel the policy but it told him hed 
have to pay a cancellation fee, so he felt he was stuck with the policy.  
Since our adjudicator  sent her assessment  Advantage has accepted that it didn't apply 
CIDRA appropriately. As Mr Ms policy has since lapsed I think the fair thing for Advantage 
to do to put things  right is to refund Mr M the additional premium it charged.  It should  add 
Ref: DRN60428672simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year, calculated  from the date it charged the 
additional premium  to the date it refunds him.
In addition, Im aware that the situation has been a source of distress  and inconvenience  for 
Mr M. So I think Advantage should  pay him £50 compensation. Mr M doesn't think  thats  
enough. He said that the matter has taken him roughly 30 hours  to sort out and he thinks  
Advantage should compensate him at a rate of £50 an hour; so £1,500 in total. But I don't 
think that would be fair.
When deciding whether to award interest and if so how much,  Ill look at the impact a 
business mistakes have  had on a consumer. Ill also think about other awards I've made in 
cases of similar seriousness. 
Having done so Im satisfied that £50 compensation is a reasonable sum. Thats because its 
noteworthy that the initial mistake was Mr Ms, not Advantages. And if hed entered the 
correct date of his UK residency the problem wouldn't  have arisen at all. Also,  the amount of 
the additional premium, while not insignificant, was relatively small. So I don't think it was 
likely to have caused him significant financial hardship. 
Also the amount of the consumers time a complaint  has taken up is just one factor  to 
consider when looking at the impact of a business mistake. And we don't make awards for 
distress and inconvenience based on an hourly  rate. So having thought about the level of 
compensation very carefully Im satisfied that £50 is an appropriate  sum in the 
circumstances. Thats because its in line with awards weve  made in cases of similar 
seriousness. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Refund Mr M the additional premium it charged him. It should add simple interest to 
that amount  at a rate of 8% a year calculated from the date charged  to the date it 
refunds him1.
Pay Mr M £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6042867