K822xcomplaint
R, a limited company,  complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc wrongly told it the 
facility it took out was Sharia compliant. R also complains  that RBS didnt allow  it to make  
part prepayments. R is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr K. Mr K asks for 
compensation.
background 
R took out a loan with RBS in 2011. Mr K says RBS claimed the product was Sharia  
compliant but hasnt  provided evidence to support  this. 
Mr K says the facility  terms  allow R to make early part prepayments. But when  R asked to 
make a part prepayment  in January 2015  RBS didnt allow  this, saying  the loan must be 
repaid in full. R repaid the loan in 2016. 
Mr K says R wouldnt  have taken out the facility, which  was expensive compared to 
conventional loans, if hed known it wasnt Sharia compliant. And he says not being able to 
make part prepayments caused R financial loss as it had to refinance.
Our adjudicator recommended  that part of the complaint should be upheld, saying:
compliance with Sharia law:
The terms of the facility were set out in the information sent to R in 2011.  RBS also sent 
a Shariah Supervisory Board paper. While  it cant now provide a copy of this, its likely 
Rs directors received it and was satisfied with it as R took out the loan. RBS provided 
enough information to allow Rs directors to decide whether to take out the facility.
After completion, Mr K asked RBS for further  information about the facilitys compliance 
with Sharia law. RBS didnt provide this, despite  saying  it would  do so. This worried Mr 
K. But R took out the loan. R didnt  suffer  any financial loss or inconvenience.  As a legal 
entity, R doesnt suffer upset or worry. So the adjudicator didnt recommend that RBS 
provide further  information or compensation.
Prepayment of part of the facility:
The facility  agreement provides for prepayment of all or part of the deferred  amount. 
Theres nothing in the agreement or the guide  sent with it saying that part prepayment 
isnt allowed. So RBS treated R unfairly in January 2015 when it said part prepayment 
wasnt allowed. Rs bank statements show that it had money  in its account to make  a 
part prepayment of about £518,000 in January 2015. Based  on calculations provided  by 
RBS, the amount that would have  been refunded if this had happened was less than the 
early repayment fee waived by RBS. So R didnt suffer any financial  loss as a result of 
not being allowed to make the part prepayment in January 2015.
The adjudicator recommended that RBS pay compensation  for the inconvenience  
caused by it not allowing a part prepayment in 2015.  RBS agreed to pay £500 and the 
adjudicator said this was fair. 
costs of refinancing  the facility:
In an email in early January 2015  Mr K told RBS he intended to prepay about half the 
loan balance  in January  2015 and the remaining balance in April 2015. So R intended to 
Ref: DRN60506482prepay the facility in full before RBS said it wouldnt allow  part prepayment. So it wasnt  
reasonable to require  RBS to compensate R for the costs of arranging  a new facility.
R didnt agree. In summary, Mr K said:
RBS had to ensure  the product was Sharia compliant and show  that its actual terms had 
been approved  by the Shariah Supervisory  Board. He said its not enough to provide 
information to the customer. He said the facility was expensive and R wouldnt have 
gone ahead  if RBS hadnt said it was Sharia compliant. 
he first asked  for confirmation  of Sharia compliance in June  2011   its not credible that 
RBS no longer had the Shariah Supervisory Board paper at that time. Mr K says RBS 
didnt respond  for eight years because it knew the facility  wasnt  Sharia compliant.
Rs costs of refinancing (legal fees, valuation  fees and arrangement  fees) should be 
taken into account. These  were  only incurred because  RBS disregarded the contract 
terms. While  R intended to prepay the facility balance it might not have done so if, for 
instance, it needed the money  for an investment opportunity. Mr K said RBS only waived 
the early repayment  fee because it knew it had mis-sold the product. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
compliance with Sharia law
RBS says the facility  documents  were  sent to R in 2011 with a guide (entitled guide  to early 
settlement of deferred payments, rebate and charges)  and a Shariah Supervisory Board 
paper. It sent a copy of the cover  letter which supports this. 
RBS provided copies of the facility documents. While the documents  dont say the facility is 
Sharia compliant I think that was the parties intention. I should make it clear  that I make  no 
findings here about whether the facility was Sharia  compliant. 
But I think that RBS provided enough information  in 2011 for Rs directors to decide whether 
to take out the facility. RBS says it cant provide  a copy of the Shariah  Supervisory Board  
paper. But as R took out the facility, I think its likely Rs directors  received this in 2011 and 
were satisfied with what it said. 
In June 2011 RBS wrote to Mr K about  several  matters, including a request  that RBS provide 
confirmation from suitably  qualified scholars  that the completion process was Sharia 
compliant. He asked  for this as he felt RBS made an error when it transferred the completion 
money. RBS said it had noted  his request and would provide the confirmation when 
available. RBS says it cant  now explain why it didnt provide  the confirmation.
Mr K says I should infer that RBS knew the product wasnt  Sharia compliant because it 
stopped offering it and hasnt provided  evidence that it was compliant. I dont think  this is 
reasonable. Banks regularly review and change  the products they offer.  And RBS provided  
Ref: DRN60506483the Shariah Supervisory Board paper to Mr K before  R took out the loan  so he must have 
found what it said about the product acceptable. I dont think  the evidence  here shows that 
RBS thought the product  wasnt  Sharia  compliant.
I understand that its important to Mr K that the facility  was Sharia compliant. Further 
assurances from RBS  or the former members of the Sharia Supervisory Board  might 
help to put Mr Ks mind  at rest. But I must  take into account that R is the complainant here. R 
is a limited company,  so it cant feel upset or worry. I havent seen evidence  that R suffered 
any financial  loss as a result of an error by RBS. So I dont think  its reasonable to require 
RBS to pay compensation for the cost of the facility or provide further assurances about the 
facility being Sharia compliance.
prepayment of part of the facility
RBS says partial prepayment wasnt allowed under the facility.  But I dont think this is clear 
from the agreement.  The facility documents  refer to prepayment  of the whole or part. So I 
think RBS made an error. Either the documents werent clear that part prepayment  wasnt 
allowed, or part prepayment was allowed and RBS was wrong to tell R otherwise. So I must  
consider whether this error caused R any financial loss.
Our adjudicator asked  RBS to calculate  how the facility would have been affected  if it had 
allowed R to make a part prepayment of about  £518,000 in 2015. Based  on the information 
RBS provided, its likely R would  have received a refund of about  £52,000.  
During discussions in early 2015 about prepaying the facility,  Mr K expressed concerns 
about whether  the facility was Sharia  compliant.  He also expressed concerns about the 
variations in the settlement figures provided by RBS. RBS offered to waive  the early 
repayment fee of about £75,000.  RBS says this was because at that time it couldnt find its 
copy of the signed loan agreement. It later found the loan agreement but didnt apply the 
early repayment fee.
Making a part prepayment in 2015  would have reduced the overall cost of the facility to R. 
But it benefitted from the waiver of the early repayment fee. And it had use of the money it 
would have used  for the prepayment. So, in the circumstances, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require  RBS to pay compensation for any financial loss due to R not being 
allowed to make a part prepayment. 
RBS agreed to pay £500 compensation  for the inconvenience caused to R by it not allowing 
a part prepayment in 2015. I think this is fair. 
costs of refinancing  the facility
Mr K asks that RBS pays Rs costs  of refinancing with another  provider. He says not being  
able to make  part prepayment was the reason the facility was refinanced. But the available 
evidence doesnt  support  this. Mr K sent an email in early January 2015  saying  R intended 
to prepay the loan in full in April 2015.  Hed asked for settlement figures for prepaying the 
whole facility before this. So I think  Rs directors were already considering  prepaying the 
loan in full before RBS said part prepayments werent allowed. 
I understand that Rs directors might not have  settled the facility in April 2015. But theyd 
previously expressed an intention to prepay the facility  in full. And, from what Mr K has said,  
I think its likely they hoped to refinance  once a Sharia  compliant facility was available  on 
Ref: DRN60506484less expensive terms than the RBS facility.  I dont think  I can reasonably find that the only 
reason Rs directors refinanced in 2016 was because  RBS said they couldnt  prepay part. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require RBS to pay Rs costs of 
refinancing.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to 
pay £500 to R, as its agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6050648