K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about Interactive Investor  Services Limiteds (IISL) decision to not change 
his name  on their systems without an enrolled  deed poll.
background
Mr C holds an account with IISL. In 2019 he wrote  to them to explain that hed changed  his 
name by deed  poll and asked them to update their systems with his new name. There was 
some communication between both parties to determine what  documentation IISL required. 
They eventually said that Mr C needed  to provide them with an enrolled deed poll. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this and complained to IISL. He said,  in summary, that hed been 
originally told that an official deed  poll was required and IISL hadnt been clear  that an 
enrolled deed poll was what they needed.  He also said that other  organisations had 
accepted his name change without the need for an enrolled deed poll.
They partially upheld  his complaint and paid him £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
hed experienced but reiterated that they required an enrolled deed poll. Mr C then brought 
his complaint to this service. He explained  that the he would incur further costs from a 
solicitor in order to validate the enrolled deed poll and IISL wouldnt cover this cost.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who upheld  the complaint.  He 
thought, in brief:
An enrolled deed poll wasn't  anymore  more authentic or effective than an unenrolled 
deed poll, and that had been  made  clear  in the High Court.
The fact that Mr C would be able to open a new account with IISL in his new name  
with the documents he possessed made the policy of having an enrolled deed poll 
seem time consuming and unnecessary.
Mr C had successfully changed his name  with other businesses  with an unenrolled 
deed poll which seemed to be the industry  standard. 
He had also changed his National Insurance (NI) record  and driving licence with an 
unenrolled deed poll. All U.K. government organisations,  including  HM Passport 
Office, HMRC and DVLA accepted an unenrolled deed poll.
He thought IISL were treating Mr C unfairly  as an enrolled deed  poll went against 
industry standards and appeared wholly unnecessary.
The process to get a deed poll enrolled was time consuming  and costly.
IISL didnt agree with his findings. They said, in summary:
The guidance on the government website said Some  organisations may not accept 
a deed poll you've  made yourself  as proof of your new name. Ask the organisation 
you're dealing with (for example your bank)  if they need  an 'enrolled' deed poll 
instead."
While  they understood  that other  companies  had accepted the unenrolled deed poll, 
they were under  no obligation to do so.
They were following guidelines and as a financial institution  they took adhering to 
those guidelines seriously. Whilst they werent suggesting this was the case for Mr C, 
they had to take into consideration that the ability to change a name with limited  
checks may assist those who are sanctioned  or have committed  financial crime to 
change their name with minimal checks.
Ref: DRN64691612If the government  guidelines were deemed  unfair, then the issue  stemmed further 
than their business and that the issue should  be taken with policy change and not the 
institutions that were  following the guidelines.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  this complaint 
should be upheld.  I will now explain why.
I appreciate the points  IISL have made  about  the need to prevent financial crime. However, I 
dont think they are treating Mr C fairly  here. Their website says that for verification of identity 
they require a photocopy of your current photocard driving licence, which confirms both your 
identity and address . It goes on to say that The address on your ID document(s) must 
match the one we have on record. Please dont send in original document(s).
Mr C has submitted documentation which has been updated to show his new name including 
a drivers licence. And its registered  at the address IISL hold on file for him. I think its 
important to note that they arent  opening a new account for Mr C, they are simply updating 
details on an account he already holds  and is currently able to freely  use. 
I think the fact that he can use the account freely  contradicts the arguments theyve made 
about trying  to prevent financial crime. I dont think it is fair or reasonable to require Mr C to 
incur extra costs or spend extra  time in getting his deed poll enrolled when it wouldnt make  
any difference to his ability  to use his account.  I think the documentation hes provided 
clearly meets IISLs published criteria  for identity verification documents.
That being  said,  I must stress that my opinion only applies to Mr Cs specific circumstances. 
Its possible I may have been  inclined to look on things differently in a different scenario, for 
example, if Mr C wasnt able to share some of the evidence he has. I also note the 
comments IISL have made in relation to the government  guidelines  but this decision is solely  
about the merits of Mr Cs complaint and its specific circumstances. It isnt about the fairness  
or unfairness  of the government guidelines,  nor how IISL may conduct  their business with 
other customers in differing situations.
So, taking everything  into account, I think Mr C has provided enough information for IISL to 
update their systems  with his new name. I dont think he should be required to provide an 
enrolled deed poll for the reasons Ive explained above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold this complaint and require Interactive Investor  
Services Limited to update Mr Cs name on their systems without  the need for an enrolled 
deed poll. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2021.
Ref: DRN64691613Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6469161