K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Os credit card account when he applied for the card in person, at a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mr Os application form for the credit card. It includes a section on 
Insurance services. The section includes Credit Card Repayments Insurance (PPI), 
and there are equally prominent  options to accept or decline the cover.  The box was 
ticked to confirm that Mr O wished to take the cover.  I acknowledge that its possible 
that the application  was completed  by Halifaxs  adviser,  but if it was, I think its more 
likely than not that the box was ticked because Mr O indicated that he wished to take 
the cover.  The section about  PPI was reasonably prominent on the form, which  Mr O 
signed.
 Taking everything into account,  I think it would have been clear  to Mr O that the PPI 
was optional, and I think he chose to take it  although I can understand why he may 
no longer remember  this, so many  years later.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr O. This means it had a responsibility  to check that 
it was suitable  for him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time.  
 Mr Os told us hed have been  entitled to some pay from his employer if hed been off 
sick. But if hed made a successful claim on the PPI, it would have helped with his 
monthly credit  card payments  until the balance outstanding when he claimed  had been  
cleared, or until he returned to work, whichever was earlier.  So the PPI would  
potentially have paid out for significantly longer  than Mr Os told us hed have  been  
entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments 
Mr O received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet  other day-to-
day expenses. And he wouldnt  have had to use his savings  to make his credit  card 
repayments.
Ref: DRN64283062 I note that Mr Os told us he had an income  protection policy at the time. But from what 
hes told us, the benefit payable under that policy  would have been equivalent to less 
than half his monthly  take-home pay. So if hed been off sick or lost his job, I think  he 
could have struggled  to meet  his credit  card repayments  once his employer stopped 
paying him sick pay or redundancy pay. So I dont think  his existing policy made  the 
PPI unsuitable for him.
 Taking everything into account,  I think the policy  could have been  useful for Mr O. And 
since he was paying for it monthly,  he could have cancelled it at any time, without 
further cost if he changed  his mind,  or if his circumstances  changed.
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Ive explained that Im satisfied  that Mr O chose to take out the 
policy. So he appears to have wanted  this type of cover,  even if hes understandably 
forgotten that now. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think  its unlikely Mr O 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think hed still have  taken out the policy.
But Halifax  has agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because:
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr O about that. Because Halifax didnt  tell Mr O, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax  has agreed  to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  thats fair in this case.
what Halifax needs to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. It should  also pay back to Mr O any extra  interest he paid because  
of that.
If it hasnt  done  so already, Halifax should  re-work the credit card account and pay back to 
Mr O the difference  between what Mr O owes and what he would have owed  if the 
commission and profit share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax 
should also pay Mr O 8%* simple interest  if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr O can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN64283063my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) doesnt  have  to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Mr O any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  It should now do this if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6428306