K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs B in 1998  in connection with a 
joint mortgage. The policy covered Mr B if he couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Barclays gave any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Bs needs?
- Did Barclays  give Mr and Mrs B the information  they needed to decide  whether to 
take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs B are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done something  different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt know the policy had been added  to their account.  They  say 
they didnt claim on it when Mr B was made  redundant, which  they consider supports their 
case that they didnt know  theyd got it.
I understand from Barclays records that the policy was cancelled  in 1999. I think this might  
explain why Mr and Mrs B dont remember having  it, as it seems they only paid the 
premiums for a relatively  short period  of time.
Ive also seen the direct debit instructions  that were completed for payment of the premiums.  
So overall, I think Barclays  made Mr and Mrs B aware of the PPI and that they had a choice 
about whether  or not to take the cover.
Ref: DRN64742732Barclays advised Mr and Mrs B to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-Mr B was eligible  for the policy. 
-Mr B says he didnt need the PPI as he would  have  received employer benefits if he 
couldnt work due to sickness or accident.  But the policy  would have paid out in addition  to 
his occupational benefits, and wouldve meant  Mr and Mrs B could use those benefits to 
pay for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs B would have had some use for the policy  
despite their existing arrangements.
-Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys  main benefits, such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think  it unlikely better advice or 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve  changed  Mr and Mrs Bs 
decision to have it.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs B before they agreed  to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have  to pay something for it. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable.  So I think  it unlikely Mr 
and Mrs B would  have made a different decision if better information  about the cost had 
been provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted this type of cover.  
And as Ive already said, Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6474273