K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has declined her claim under her travel 
insurance policy.
background
Mrs D has a travel insurance policy as part of a package  with her bank account. The policy is 
underwritten by UKI. 
In May 2018  Mrs D was booked to travel abroad for three nights with her husband.  But on 
the morning they were  due to travel, the airline provider notified them that their return flight, 
back to the UK, had been cancelled due to ground personnel  strikes.
Mrs D says that they had to be back in the UK by a certain  date for work commitments. But 
the alternative flights that couldve  accommodated this were  either  cancelled  or fully booked. 
So they decided  to cancel the flights all together and not go on the trip. The airline provider 
issued a refund for the flights. But the hotel  accommodation was non  refundable. So Mrs D 
claimed for this loss under her travel insurance  policy.
UKI initially told Mrs D that the claim would  be covered under the abandonment section of 
her policy.  And it asked her to provide evidence to support it, which she did. But it later 
declined the claim  saying that the policy only covered abandoned  trips if the outbound flight  
is the problem.  It offered  £150 compensation for the miscommunication about this. Mrs D 
was unhappy  with this, so she brought  her complaint to this service.   
Our investigator looked into this complaint and agreed with UKI for the reasons itd already 
explained to Mrs D. Mrs D disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold the complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator, and Ill explain why.
The term UKI and the investigator relied  upon  when looking at whether Mrs Ds claim should 
be paid, is found  under section 7 of the associated policy document  travel delay and 
abandonment. And under the sub heading  titled abandonment  it says:
Ref: DRN6937056We will pay you up to £5,000 per insured person, if you decide to
i. abandon the journey and return to your home  address, where we will pay for 
journey deposits  and costs, or
ii. travel  to your pre-booked destination  by alternative means, where we will pay 
additional expenses  such as accommodation, travel  (to a similar standard  as you had 
already booked and paid for), meals  and refreshments
because your pre-booked flight,  sailing,  train or coach  journey from the UK is delayed 
for at least:
- six hours, on journeys of four nights or less, or
- twelve  hours, on journeys of five nights  or more
or you are prevented from starting  your journey or returning to the UK because  airspace has 
been closed on the orders of an official Government  or regulatory body for more than 24 
hours following your scheduled departure.
Part of the term relates to airspace being closed by an official Government or regulatory 
body. But it was ground personnel strikes  that led to Mrs D not going on her trip. So Im 
satisfied she isnt covered  under that part of the term. 
The rest of the term relates to flights from the UK and in this case, Mrs D was claiming  for 
problems with a return flight  leaving from a destination outside of the UK. So I accept 
Mrs Ds claim isnt covered under the abandonment section of the policy.
Ive looked over the rest of the policy to see if Mrs Ds claim might be covered anywhere 
else. But I cant see that it is. So in the circumstances  of this case, I think UKI declined  
Mrs Ds claim in line with the provisions of the policy terms and conditions. So I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  differently.
I understand that when Mrs D called UKI to raise the claim, she was incorrectly  told it would 
be covered under abandonment. But while  I understand this was unfortunate, it wasnt  this 
incorrect information that led Mrs D to cancel her trip. Shed  already done this before she 
contacted UKI to make a claim. So even if UKI had given her the correct information initially,  
she wouldve still been in the same position  shes in now with regards to the loss of her 
accommodation costs.  So I cant hold UKI responsible for that.
But I accept that Mrs D wouldnt have  had to spend time sending  in documents  to support 
her claim. And the mistake in information is likely to have falsely  raised Mrs Ds 
expectations. UKI has admitted it gave Mrs D incorrect  information and has offered £150  
compensation for this. I think this is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this case.
I appreciate this isnt the response  Mrs Ds hoping for, so my decision will likely come as a 
disappointment. But I think  the outcome is fair for the reasons Ive explained above. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6937056