K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Unum Ltd has refused  to meet his claim made under his 
employers group income protection policy.
background
Mr Ws former employer  provides employees  with a group  income protection policy.  Benefit 
is payable after 26 weeks absence from work if a member is unable  to carry out the duties  of 
their own occupation  due to illness or accident. 
Mr W suffers from cardiac problems. His symptoms first caused him to be absent from work 
in April 2014. Since then there has been ongoing  medical investigations. He has been under 
the care of cardiac  consultants. 
When Mr W became  absent from work  beyond  the waiting period, he made a claim to Unum.  
In March 2015, Unum  confirmed that it would not meet Mr Ws claim.  It didnt  think the 
medical evidence  indicated that he was prevented  from working  by his symptoms.  Mr W 
appealed this decision and a further  consultant report was obtained. Unum reassessed the 
claim, but it again  declined to meet it, as it didnt see anything  in the new report to change  its 
decision. 
Following this, Mr W referred a complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked  into 
the complaint.  She thought Unums decision to decline the claim was reasonable and did not 
uphold it. This complaint  was closed in August 2016.  In July 2017,  Mr W submitted new 
medical evidence  to Unum and asked it to reconsider his claim.  Unum reviewed the 
information Mr W supplied but again it didnt agree to meet the claim. Mr W referred his 
complaint back to this service to consider.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2018  based on what  Id seen, I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint. This is what I said:
There  is a long history to Mr Ws claim and I can see that Unum has reviewed it on several 
occasions over the last few years. As part of the most recent  consideration, Mr W provided 
new evidence in the form of letters that he had obtained from two different consultants. So 
the focus of this decision is on the most recent  decision  to decline the claim. 
Firstly, I should say that I accept that Mr W has and still is suffering from poor health. And I 
have no doubt  this has been a difficult time for him. The question I need to determine is 
whether Unums decision to decline his claim  is fair and reasonable in light of the available 
evidence.
The policy Mr W was a member of pays benefit  in the event of incapacity. The policy 
defines incapacity as when Unum  is satisfied that a member is unable,  by reason of their 
illness or injury to perform  the material and substantial duties of their insured occupation. For 
the purpose of the policy, material and substantial  duties means duties that are normally 
required as part of the occupation that cant be omitted or modified.  
This service has already  considered a complaint brought  by Mr W when his claim  was first 
turned down. This complaint  wasnt  upheld  and I broadly agree with the investigators  
reasoning. I dont intend to comment on this in detail but in order to determine the present 
Ref: DRN69291692complaint I have reviewed  all the information  including the medical  reports  and I think  the 
decision by Unum to decline the claim in 2015  and 2016 was fair. 
I have reviewed the two new consultant reports from June 2017.  Both of these reports  make 
clearer statements on Mr Ws inability to work.  With one of the reports  stating Mr W hasnt 
been fit for work since  April 2014.  But I do need to consider them in the wider context of the 
other contemporaneous medical reports that were  available when the claim was first made. 
From the information Ive seen, it doesnt  appear  that Mr Ws condition has changed 
significantly between the consultant report of June 2015 and the June 2017  reports.  But 
there is a difference in how Mr Ws ability to work is described in the 2015 report. This report  
stops short of saying that Mr W was unable to complete the duties of his role and instead  
says, he should avoid  exertional recreational or employment activities. The information 
from Mr Ws claim form indicates his job was a desk-based role. And I havent seen anything 
to suggest his role would require him to be involved  in exertional activities.  So this evidence  
doesnt support  that Mr W met the policy  requirements to be incapacitated to the extent he 
couldnt perform the duties of his role. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the June 2017  reports outweigh the evidence  thats  
previously been  considered.  As explained  above, I accept these reports make  statements to 
the affect Mr W is not fit to work. But I am concious they are written more  than three  years  
since he was first absent. While this doesnt mean  they should be discounted, I need to be 
carefully consider  the weight that should  be attached to them  in the light of the information 
contained in the earlier consultant report.
I note one of the June  2017 reports is written by a consultant from a private  clinic who 
doesnt appear to have  been involved in Mr Ws treatment  before this consultation. So I dont 
think it carries  as much weight  as a report from a consultant  who has been invovled in 
Mr  Ws treatment when the claim was first made.The other 2017 report  is written by the 
same consultant who wrote the 2015 report  so has been involved in Mr Ws treatment  for a 
while. But the new report goes much further in commenting on Mr Ws capacity to work  
based on the same medical information. So although the two reports  differ  in some respects 
Im not persuaded that that the 2015 report should be given less weight  that the more recent 
report.
Overall, I found the evidence from Mr Ws treating consultant from the time the claim was 
first considered to be more persuasive than the recent reports. I didnt think the balance of 
evidence supported his claim for benefit. For this reason, I thought Unums decision to 
decline his claim was fair. 
 
Unum accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments to make. 
Ref: DRN69291693Mr W didnt accept my provisional findings.  In summary, he said:
-The provisional decision shows little comprehension of the facts or history  of the case  
and appears to be repeating the Unum  stance without any attempt to include 
coherent justification.
-The investigator who looked at his case was satisfied the more recent medical 
reports cleared up the ambiguity in the original reports. The wording in the provisional 
decision misses this simple point and states  that there is new medical evidence  to be 
considered. This is not a fair representation of the facts.
-The comment in the original medical report about avoiding  exertional activities  is 
standard advice  for Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy  (HCM). He doesnt have any 
issues with exertional activities.  The debilitating symptoms and collapses are always 
when at rest  either sitting or standing - so a desk-based role is currently the worst  
place for him to be. 
-The timescales around obtaining  the new report from the treating consultant  are 
merely how long it can take in this environment. The statements in the report  are 
clear regardless  of the timing. 
-The private cardiologist report was obtained through  the healthcare provider of his 
former employer. This was agreed due to the time that he had been waiting for a 
review under the NHS.  The consultant that wrote  the report is part of the cardiology  
team at his treating  NHS hospital and included a review of all hospital  records.
 
-Unum has only ever requested GP records and these do not fully cover  the cardiac 
investigations, opinions or conclusions. The provisional decision doesnt 
acknowledge this significant fact and appears to use the very limited information to 
make judgement against the opinions of cardiologists who are directly involved in his 
healthcare.
-He attempted  to get a letter from his treating  consultant following a recommendation 
from our investigator.  Due to delays in getting this, he paid for a private consultation 
and saw the consultant  on 9 November 2016.  The consultant promised to write to 
Unum clarifying that he had always considered  him to be unfit for work but the letter 
did not finally materialise  until 29 June 2017.
-The June  2017 letter from the treating consultant is intended  to be in addition to his 
original letter - and shouldnt be dismissed. The letter mentioned  an appointment with 
the cardiology team on 10 May 2017 as a result of a blackout and serious fall on 1 
May 2017. This was the most recent assessment  and the symptoms  described are 
the ongoing debilitating ones. The final statement is the primary purpose of this letter. 
The statement shows  that the consultant has always considered that he is not fit for 
work.  
-The private consultation he attended  in June 2017, while  not primarily about fitness 
to work it was an opportunity to raise  the issue. That consultants letter  says he has 
already reviewed the case with other  members  of the cardiology team.  So this 
consultant is in a position to make a statement  about fitness to work. 
Ref: DRN69291694my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the points Mr W has made in response to my provisional 
decision. Having  done so, I havent found  reason to change my findings  I will explain why 
below. 
Firstly, I have noted the various points Mr W has made about the opinion our investigator  
reached including her view of the medical evidence. I think  it would be helpful  to explain our 
two-stage case handling  process. The first stage is where an investigator gives an initial  
opinion on the complaint  and either  party can appeal this. In this case, Unum didnt accept 
the investigators findings. So the case was moved to the second and final stage  an 
ombudsmans decision. A decision issued by an ombudsman is legally binding if accepted 
by the consumer. It also supersedes the investigators opinion. As the ombudsman  
considering this case, Ive looked  at all the evidence and arguments afresh to make  an 
independent decision. So while I understand why Mr W supports the findings  of our 
investigator, I am not bound  by them. 
I would like to reassure  Mr W that in reaching my findings, I have placed attention to the 
history of his condition  this includes  all of the medical evidence  submitted by him and 
Unum. Im satisfied that both Mr W and Unum  have had the opportunity  to provide any 
medical evidence  they would  like me to consider. 
Ive looked at all the comments Mr W has made  about the consultant  reports that were used 
in the assessment of his claim. Mr W believes that the two June 2017 consultant reports 
clarify the ambiguity from the original 2015 report.  I agree that the most recent reports do 
make clearer  statements about Mr Ws ability to work.  But, I need to consider them  in the 
wider context of all the evidence. The same treating consultant  wrote  the original  2015  report 
and one of the June  2017 reports. Mr W believes the second report is not new evidence but 
just a clarification of the first report. I think it is important  that the consultant doesnt comment  
(in his June 2017 report) on why there are different statements about Mr Ws ability  to work.  
Also, he makes no reference to the wording  of the 2015 report  and doesnt provide any 
clarification of the statements he made in that report. So I dont think the evidence supports 
Mr Ws view that the second report clarifies the first.  
I have considered the comments  Mr W has made about the wording of the 2015 report  
specifically the statement  about avoiding exertional  activities. He says this is standard 
advice for people with Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy  (HCM).  He says he doesnt  have any 
issues with exertional  activities  and his symptoms occur when hes at rest. I dont  dispute  
that this may be common advice given to people with HCM or what  Mr W has explained  
about his symptoms. But I do think it is relevant that this consultant  report  doesnt suggest 
that Mr W should avoid  any work  at all including sedentary activities.  So I still think the 
information in this report is important evidence to consider when deciding  whether Unum has 
acted fairly  in handling the claim. 
I have noted Mr Ws comments about the timescales  taken  to obtain the new medical 
reports. I appreciate  the reasons he has given for the length of time it took to get them.  I also 
understand that he attempted  to get this information  following  discussions with our 
investigator about the outcome of a previous complaint. I havent dismissed the more recent 
reports, but in deciding  the weight that I must  give to the medical evidence,  
Ref: DRN69291695contemporaneous evidence will often carry the more weight that evidence  produced later.  In 
this situation,  the evidence  that is closest to when the claim was first made is the treating 
consultant report  from 2015. So in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, I have  placed more weight on this report  than the 2017  reports,  which were 
written several years  after the claim event.
I have also considered Mr Ws comments  about the consultant  report he received  after a 
private consultation in June  2017. In my provisional  decision, I said that I took into account 
that the consultant who wrote this report hadnt been  involved in Mr Ws treatment from the 
start of the claim. I do acknowledge that this consultant had access to Mr Ws historical  
medical records. I also acknowledge  that he has made a statement that Mr W isnt fit for 
work. This is evidence  I have considered  but as Ive explained  above, I find the 
contemporaneous evidence the more  persuasive.  
For the reason  described above  and those in my provisional decision, I think  Unums  
decision to decline Mr Ws claim is fair. 
       
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Daniel Little
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6929169