K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Ms S as trustees  of C, a trust, complain about transfers  allowed  by Barclays Bank 
UK Plc out of one of Cs accounts.
background
Mr K and Ms S say that between May 2013  and June 2014,  15 transfers totalling £25,200 
were made from one of Cs accounts  to Mr Ks personal account. They say these 
transactions were  completed by Mr K, but without the knowledge  or authority of Ms S  
despite the signing authority for C saying  that both signatories had to authorise  the 
transactions.
Initially Mr K and Ms S queried more than just these 15 transactions,  but since  the case has 
been with us theyve clarified  that its only the 15 in branch transactions  theyre  now 
disputing.
Barclays say the signing  authority on Cs accounts  was set up correctly, and that both 
parties wouldve  authorised the transfers.
Mr K and Ms S werent happy  with Barclays response, so they brought a complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into their concerns and didnt uphold their complaint.  The investigator 
said that while Barclays couldnt evidence who had authorised the transactions,  she thought  
it was more likely than not that the correct process was followed.  But regardless,  as the 
funds went to Mr Ks account there was no financial loss, so she wasnt recommending that 
Barclays refund any of the transactions.
Barclays accepted  the investigations  opinion. But Mr K and Ms S rejected it, saying that    
Ms S wasnt aware of and didnt authorise  the disputed transactions  and that Ms S had 
suffered a financial loss. They asked for the full £25,200 to be refunded to C.
Following this Barclays made an offer of £200. Mr K and Ms S have rejected the offer saying 
they want Barclays to pay an extra £1,000  to cover the costs of setting up Cs trust account.
Mr K and Ms S asked for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  what  
happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely  to have happened 
in light of the available evidence.
Ref: DRN61013322Mr K and Ms S say that the transfers were completed by Mr K attending a branch, and were 
done without the authorisation or presence  of Ms S. Barclays say that the signing authority 
for Cs account wouldve been followed by the branch staff, but are unable  to provide any 
evidence that this happened for the 15 transactions in dispute. Based on what  Ive seen its 
possible that the transfers mayve been completed based on the authorisation of only one of 
Cs signatories. 
Weve been provided with bank statements for both of Cs accounts  which Ill refer to as 
account 1 and account 2. As well as statements for Mr Ks personal account. 
Having reviewed all of these I can see account  1 for C had a large deposit made into it in 
early 2012.  From mid-2012 there were regular payments  made from account 1 to Mr Ks 
personal account on a monthly basis  via cheques written on account 1. The amount of 
these payments varies  but is roughly £5,000  most  months up until mid-2013 when account 1 
no longer had available funds in it.
Account 2 for C had a large deposit made into it in early 2013. From mid-2013, at around  the 
same time that account 1 became empty of available  funds, monthly transfers to Mr Ks 
personal account started being made from account  2 via branch transfers. The amounts vary 
each month, but there is a regularity in the frequency of these payments which suggests 
these transfers replaced the funds that were previously moved from account 1. The transfers 
continue until mid-2014, when account  2 has no further funds available  in it. The 15 
transactions that Mr K and Ms S are complaining  about were made between  mid-2013 and 
mid-2014 from account 2.
Initially Mr K and Ms S disputed more transactions with Barclays,  including around 24 
cheques that were written  on account  1. At least seven  of these cheques totalling around  
£30,000 were deposited  into Mr Ks account.  When Barclays provided  copies of the disputed 
cheques which showed that both signatories had signed  Mr K and Ms S didnt further 
dispute those  transactions  and confirmed them as genuine. Based on this I dont think  its 
unreasonable to assume that if Barclays had been able to show that both signatories  had 
authorised the in branch transfers from account  2, that Mr K and Ms S are likely  to have 
dropped their dispute on these 15 transactions as well. 
But regardless, having looked  at Mr Ks personal account it appears that funds transferred 
from both account  1 then later from account 2 in Cs name, were  used to cover Mr Ks day to 
day living costs and that he was reliant  on this funding. I appreciate that Barclays  cant  show  
that the in branch transfers  had the authorisation of both signatories, but I cant  see that 
there has been a financial  loss  as I think the funds wouldve been transferred  to Mr Ks 
account regardless if the correct process was followed. Also,  I dont think its fair to ask 
Barclays to refund the £25,200 as it would  mean  that Mr K has had the benefit of the funds 
twice. 
Barclays has offered £200 as the transactions may not have been handled as they 
shouldve, and I think their offer of £200  is fair in the circumstances.
Mr K and Ms S have asked for more than the £200, saying they have  experienced distress  
due to the transfers occurring. But I cant fairly  ask Barclays to make an additional trouble 
and upset payment  to C on that basis  especially as I think its likely the transfers wouldve 
happened anyway.   
Ref: DRN61013323my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms S as 
trustees of C, to accept  or reject my decision before 3 March 2020.  
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6101332