K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Transunion International UK Limited (Callcredit)  recorded inaccurate 
information on his credit file. He wants  compensation.
background
Mr H tells us that hed been  having  difficulty in accessing his credit report  online. He says he 
complained to Callcredit. He states he was then informed his details had become merged 
with that of a late family member. He feels  hes missed out as hes had some previous  
applications for credit refused. And he thinks the error is the probable  cause.
Callcredit accepted  that an error  had been made. It said itd taken  immediate action to 
correct the error. And that itd provided  Mr H with a free copy of his credit  report.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said she recognised 
an error had been  made. But this had been  corrected.  And she noted that Mr H had been 
supplied with a free copy of his credit file.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr H has experienced  this difficulty in accessing his online credit record.  And I 
understand his concern at having to deal with this additional problem at an upsetting  time in 
his personal life. 
The relevant  facts surrounding the complaint arent  in dispute. Mr H found he was having 
difficulty in getting  access to his online credit report.  During the investigation into that 
complaint Callcredit  discovered that Mr Hs file had become merged with that of a deceased 
close relative. It seems this might  be the most probable cause of the difficulties faced by Mr 
H in accessing  his own credit record.
Callcredit corrected the error and apologised to Mr H. In addition it sent him a free copy  of 
his credit file. It suggested that as the errors  had been cleared he might wish to apply again  
for the information  hed been  seeking.
Im aware that Mr H feels  the error  had led to his having credit applications refused. Ive not 
been supplied  with any information to show this. And all I can say is that credit applications 
are subject to numerous checks  - at the discretion of the prospective  lender. Each  lender  
has its own criteria  for making loans and so its practically impossible to know if one 
particular factor has resulted in an application  being refused. Different lenders will only issue  
loans according  to the risk factors that the individual business is willing  to assume.  So its 
entirely feasible that whilst one business might decline  an application a different lender may 
grant it.
Ref: DRN68164192As a service  we seek to resolve complaints. And not every  mistake by a business will result 
in an award of financial compensation. Here I can see that Callcredit proactively 
acknowledged its error, corrected it and issued  an apology to Mr H. It also supplied Mr H 
with a copy of his credit file.
Whilst I empathise with the situation  Mr H experienced, I think  the action taken by Callcredit  
is a fair and reasonable resolution  of this complaint. And I shant be asking  it to do anything  
else. Accordingly, Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6816419