K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for his 
credit card account.
background
In 1996, Mr G took out a credit card account with Lloyds. His first available  statement,  in 
2002, shows there being PPI on the account.  So the policy  was sold some  time between 
1996 and 2002. It covered Mr G in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Lloyds dont have  the original documents  from the sale, which is understandable given just 
how long ago it was, and since the account has long since been closed. And under data 
protection regulations, Lloyds were required to dispose of Mr Gs data rather than hold onto 
it for too long. Mr G doesnt  remember taking out PPI, and I also think  thats understandable 
given all the time thats passed, and since buying  insurance is not often  memorable.  Ive 
thought carefully  about whats most  likely to have  happened based on the information I have.
I understand Mr Gs point that he didnt take out PPI with other  accounts.  But Ive looked at 
sample copies of Lloyds sales  process from the period where his PPI was sold.  And from 
the evidence I have, it looks like he wouldve  been  given a choice about buying PPI, and in 
order to get the policy  he wouldve had to actively choose it. It wouldve  been  a very serious 
failing for Lloyds to have  added the policy without Mr Gs permission, and Ive got no 
evidence that shows thats what they did. So I think its more  likely than not that Lloyds made 
Mr G aware he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  
even if, understandably,  he no longer remembers doing so.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr G or not. The requirements were  
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr G Ive assumed  they did. That 
means Lloyds had to check  the policy was right for him. And based  on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For example, he wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And while Mr G said he had some  sick pay and 
savings, from what hes told us it looks like the PPI covered him for much longer  and it also 
wouldve paid out on top. I also understand Mr Gs partner mightve been willing  to help, but 
there was always the chance theyd be unable to help if he fell on difficult times. And this 
policy meant Mr G wouldnt have to ask his partner to pay his credit card. Further,  this credit 
card was Mr Gs sole responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable for the adviser 
to have recommended he relied on someone else to pay it. Overall,  it looks like the PPI 
couldve been useful  for Mr G in case something went wrong.
Ref: DRN67878312Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr G about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  it doesnt  look like Mr G was affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions  or limitations,  and it would have been useful for him if he was off sick or lost 
his job. And if Mr Gs circumstances changed, he could cancel the policy  at any time without 
a penalty. So I dont think that better information  about  the PPI was likely to have put him off 
taking out the cover.
my final decision
While I know this will disappoint Mr G, I dont uphold this particular complaint, for the 
reasons I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6787831