K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc has registered a charge on her property for a debt that 
was part of an Individual  Voluntary Agreement (IVA) and has issued court proceedings 
against her which has resulted  in a County Court  Judgement (CCJ) recorded on her credit 
file.
background
Mrs B says Lloyds took court action  against  her for a debt which she says had been included 
in an IVA and registered a charge on her property. She also says the CCJ has been  
recorded on her credit  file. Mrs B says shes been unable to find out what has happened and 
the issues have  caused her significant levels of stress and problems getting credit.
Lloyds issued a final response letter in March  2019  and accepted it had placed the charge 
on the property  for a debt it accepts it sold some years before. It says it cant explain what 
happened but said it would remove the charge.  It also agreed  to pay Mrs B £300 
compensation and call costs of £10. Lloyds says it sold the debt in 2012  but registered  the 
charge in 2014.
Mrs B had already  brought her complaint to us and said that the property charge had been 
removed but Lloyds hadnt removed  the CCJ details from her credit file.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and upheld it. The investigator recommended 
Lloyds pay a further £300 compensation for what took place and thought that Lloyds should 
remove the CCJ details  from Mrs Bs credit file. The investigator also asked Lloyds to explain 
what had happened  about the CCJ and what it proposed doing about it.
Lloyds replied in July 2019 and said it was up to a court  to remove  a CCJ but didnt reply  to 
the investigators questions or comment on the recommendations.
The investigator recommended  Lloyds tell the court about its error and arrange  for the CCJ 
to be removed.
Mrs B says she contacted  the court and was told it was for Lloyds to remove the CCJ or she 
could apply to transfer the case to her local court but it would cost over £250. Mrs B says 
she cant obtain a mortgage as a result of whats happened and has been caused further 
stress.
As Lloyds  hadnt  replied  to the investigators  view the complaint  was passed to me for a final 
decision. I decided  in August 2019  that I needed further information from Lloyds. In summary 
I wanted to know  why Lloyds had taken  court proceedings for a debt it didnt own and where 
there was an IVA in place  in respect  of the debt. I also asked it to consider removing the 
CCJ and taking court proceedings  if needed and in the interim time placing a note on 
Mrs Bs credit  file.
Lloyds hasnt responded to my request despite  numerous reminders.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
Ref: DRN64379982view that I uphold this complaint  for similar  reasons  to the investigator. I appreciate that 
Mrs B has waited  some significant time for a decision  to be reached  and I confirm that I have 
read her repeated  requests of us for an update  from Lloyds  as well as noting the effect  this 
matter has had on her.
Ive not seen the IVA that Mrs B entered into but I have no reason to find that the Lloyds debt 
wasnt part of that. And I can see that Lloyds accepts it sold the debt in 2012 but must have 
taken court proceedings for that same  debt in 2014. There is no real dispute here that Lloyds 
made a mistake by obtaining judgement for a debt it didnt own and then registering a charge 
on Mrs Bs property. But Im satisfied that Lloyds has apologised for that and acted fairly by 
removing the charge  from Mrs Bs property.
The main  part of Mrs Bs complaint is the impact the CCJ has had upon her and Lloyds lack 
of action in removing it from her credit  file. I have no reason to doubt  what  Mrs B says that 
the CCJ has caused her significant problems in obtaining credit  and in getting a mortgage.  I 
also have no doubt Mrs B was and still is being  caused a significant amount  of distress and 
inconvenience in trying to sort out this problem. And I dont think Lloyds has assisted that 
position by not answering  any of either mine or the investigators questions.  For those 
reasons I dont think the compensation goes far enough or that it covered the credit file 
problems in any event.  I agree  with the investigator that Lloyds should pay further 
compensation and I think it should  pay a further £500.  I think that amount fairly reflects  what  
has happened here, the length of time it is taking to resolve and the problems Mrs B has 
experienced getting credit. 
Im satisfied that for the reasons Ive explained  there  is no justification for the CCJ that 
Lloyds obtained.  It has obtained judgement for a debt it didnt appear to own and where it 
should have been part of an IVA in any event. So I think that Lloyds has to take steps to put 
matters right with the court and then the Credit  Reference Agencies.
I have explained  that I have come  to the conclusion that Lloyds wrongly  pursued  
enforcement action for a debt it should not have. And that it sought  judgement for that debt. I 
have made  those assumptions  that Lloyds did take those courses of action  as it has not 
replied to any of my or the investigators requests for information.  So I think  Lloyds should 
apply to set aside that judgement at no cost to Mrs B.
I hope Mrs B will seek advice  from her IVA supervisor about accepting my decision on 
compensation as she may be subject to a windfall clause as part of her IVA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mrs B £500 
compensation in addition  to any compensation already paid, remove  any adverse data from 
her credit file and apply  to set aside the judgement  it obtained against Mrs B. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Ref: DRN64379983David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6437998