K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lifesearch  Partners Limited  wasnt able to find him a new insurance 
policy with the payment  collection dates  he required.  
background
Mr M called Lifesearch because he was looking for a new life and critical illness policy.  
Lifesearch went through its normal process  and found a potential policy. But unfortunately its 
provider didnt offer the payment dates Mr M required.
Mr M was frustrated  by this and also Lifesearchs failure to provide him with any further 
alternative. He complained and the matter was escalated.  Lifesearch  looked at ways  it could 
try to help Mr M. But ultimately  it wasnt  able to find a policy that met his requirements. To 
get the right payments dates  wouldve meant him paying more than he wanted. 
Lifesearch explained to Mr M that in his particular  circumstances it seemed unlikely any of its 
panel of providers would be able to provide  him with the cover he needed. It suggested he 
might try talking to a third party like the Citizens Advice Bureau to give him some guidance. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint  to this service. But our investigator didnt 
think it should be upheld.  He felt that Lifesearch  had generally  acted  reasonably and tried to 
help Mr M as best it could, given  its role as a broker rather  than a provider  of insurance. 
As Mr M didnt agree, the matters been referred  to me to review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, while I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed, I agree  with the investigator. I dont think the complaint should be upheld. 
I do understand Mr Ms frustration with the situation. But having listed to the recordings of his 
calls with Lifesearch I think  that  in the main  all the people he spoke to were  trying to help 
and to look for ways  that they might  be able to get him what  he wanted. 
Lifesearch has acknowledged that it could  have done better in some regards. But, on the 
whole, given the limitations  placed  on it in terms of Mr Ms circumstances and his desire to 
get a competitively priced policy quickly and with specific  payment dates, I dont think it 
acted unreasonably or incorrectly.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6910693