K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mr Cs Halifax-branded mortgage with Bank  of Scotland  Plc. The 
essence of the complaint is that Halifax:
wont give him a better  interest rate;
hasnt responded  to an offer to deal with his arrears; and
sent letters to the wrong address.
The complaints been brought to us on Mr Cs behalf  by his mother, Mrs C.
background
Mr C has had the mortgage since 2008; it was on a fixed rate deal to begin  with but has 
been on the standard variable rate (SVR) since the initial deal ended in 2011. Mr Cs had 
some arrears and he authorised his parents to deal with Halifax  on his behalf, and to use 
their address  for correspondence, as hes rarely at home. 
Halifax did use the correspondence address, but did so as well as, rather than instead of, the 
mortgaged property address. Also, after Mr Cs parents themselves moved home, Halifax  
sent correspondence to their previous  as well as their current address. So, at one stage, 
Halifax was sending correspondence to three different addresses, and Mrs C was being 
handed letters received by the new occupants of her former  address.
The subjects Mrs C and Halifax were corresponding included:
Halifax ignored a written offer to address the arrears  and insisted they discuss  the 
arrears with call centres (often  overseas) rather than face to face at the local branch;
that the mortgage is stuck on SVR; and 
that Halifax was continuing to insure  the property and add the premiums to the 
mortgage without  Mr Cs authority. 
The latter issue  isnt being dealt  with in this complaint;  its my understanding  its being looked 
at separately.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld in part only. He hadnt seen 
evidence to suggest there was a written offer that Halifax  had ignored.  He explained that 
Halifaxs normal practice is to deal with arrears  by phone  rather than face to face, and 
encouraged his parents to maintain a regular dialogue with the bank, even if that meant  
speaking to overseas  personnel.
As far as the interest rate was concerned, the investigator agreed that Halifaxs policy of 
requiring the arrears  to be cleared before agreeing  a new rate was fair. But he did identify 
that Halifax had sent some  letters  to the wrong  address, and for this recommended  Halifax  
pay £100 compensation.
Halifax agreed to this, but in the meantime,  Mrs C sent us examples of letters that were still 
going to the old correspondence address  even  whilst wed been looking at the complaint. 
The investigator looked in to this, and when he explained to Mrs C why it had happened, she 
accepted what  he said. But shes asked for the underlying compliant to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN60507272my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having no regulatory  function means  its not up to me to tell Halifax how it should design  and 
run its arrears management function.  Halifax has set that function up to be phone-based, 
supported by field agents visits  in situations  where it considers face-to-face discussions are 
required or desirable. It doesnt  have to make bespoke arrangements  for consumers simply 
because they dont like its normal arrangements.  
It does have to consider  individual  needs, and may have to make  reasonable adjustments 
for individuals  whose circumstances prevent them from using the phone (for example, 
impaired hearing).  I understand Mr C has health-related  issues that make it difficult  for him to 
use the telephone, but thats already been circumvented  by him authorising Halifax  to deal 
with his parents  on his behalf. 
I appreciate Mrs Cs frustration at not being  offered the option  of a branch conversation, but I 
cant say that Halifax  is acting unfairly  by asking her to use its telephone services  when 
shes dealing with her sons affairs. There are also organisations (for example, debt charities 
or the Citizens Advice Bureau)  that can help by acting  as Mr Cs intermediary  if he would 
prefer that instead of his parents continuing to do so.
As far as a lower rate is concerned, its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a 
lower rate; lenders have  to consider  context  and individual circumstances  in all cases. Most 
lenders, when asked  to provide a new rate to a borrower with an arrears history, require the 
arrears to be cleared  in full and then the mortgage kept up to date and arrears -free for a 
minimum period (a year is not untypical) before theyll consider offering a new rate. 
Thats because most rate deals come with an early  repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage 
ends during the term of the deal.  If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment  under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession  and then sold. If 
that happened, then the ERC clause would be activated resulting in an extra  amount being  
added to the closing balance on sale. So lenders typically guard against that risk by insisting 
on an arrears-free period  before considering a new rate deal.
That leaves the matter of the letters that were sent to the wrong address. The investigator  
recommended Halifax  pay £100 compensation for that, and in all the circumstances, I think  
thats fair. 
Ref: DRN60507273my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part, by 
ordering Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Mr C £100.  My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C (or Mrs C on 
his behalf) to accept  or reject  my decision before 11 July 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6050727