K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Great Lakes  Insurance SE refused to cover a claim on her pet 
insurance policy.
background
In February 2018  Mrs H took out her policy, underwritten by Great Lakes,  for her pet dog. 
She had previously had a policy  with a different insurer. 
In March 2018 she went to the vets as her dog had some blood  in her urine. An ultrasound  
showed her dog had a suspected kidney stone  in the left kidney. 
Mrs H made  a claim in 2018  to cover vets fees for treatment relating to this, but the claim 
was rejected on the basis this was a pre-existing condition, as her dog had been  seen  with a 
left-sided kidney stone  in 2016. Mrs H disagreed with this but Great Lakes wouldnt change 
its decision, so she brought  her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said the policy  term that excluded pre-existing  conditions  was very wide; it 
excluded anything  and didnt limit this to conditions or illnesses. He said it wasnt  clear 
there was a connection between the kidney stone  in 2016 and what Mrs H was claiming for 
in 2018, and at the point when Mrs H took out the policy she wasnt  aware there  was 
anything wrong. On this basis,  he didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes  to refuse  the claim.
Great Lakes disagrees  and has requested an ombudsmans decision. It relies on an opinion  
from a veterinary expert which it says confirms  there  is a connection between the kidney 
stone in 2016 and later problems. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say theres no cover for any costs relating to pre-existing  conditions. A pre-
existing condition is defined as anything your pet has had treatment, medication or advice 
for in the last 24 months.
Mrs H has shown that her pet has a condition and was claiming for treatment costs  relating 
to that. If Great Lakes wants to rely on an exclusion to refuse cover,  its for Great Lakes to 
show that exclusion applies. 
Its not unusual  to exclude cover  for pre-existing conditions  most pet insurance policies do 
this. But Ive considered how the terms are worded in this policy and whether its fair and 
reasonable to apply  them in the circumstances of this case.
As the investigator  noted, the definition of a pre-existing condition  is very wide  it refers to 
anything rather than medical conditions, illnesses  or injuries. To apply the exclusion fairly,  
there ought to be a connection between the earlier condition and the one being claimed for. 
And Id also consider what Mrs H knew when  she took out the policy  - the purpose of an 
exclusion like this is to stop customers taking out insurance where they know  theres a 
problem and then making a claim  for that condition. 
Ref: DRN64827932Mrs Hs pet had had a kidney stone in 2016. But its not clear  to me that the notes  show 
increased mineralisation in 2017  went on to form the kidney stone in March 2018. The notes 
dont show that her dog was known to have an underlying condition. Mrs H wouldnt have 
been aware of any issues  with her pet when  she took out the policy; the specialists notes  
suggest her dog was well at the time and had been  for a year before taking out the policy. 
On balance I dont  think Great-Lakes could say the kidney stone was related to the one the 
pet had had in 2016. And although Mrs H had been  to the vet previously, that was for a 
specific problem some time ago; she wasnt aware  there was anything wrong with her pet 
that was likely to lead to investigation  or treatment.
I appreciate Great Lakes has more recently  provided a report from a veterinary adviser, 
which advises Mrs Hs pet is having problems now which are the culmination of longstanding 
urinary problems. But that report focuses on a more recent claim for a blocked ureter  and the 
procedure to treat this. It doesnt refer to the claim made in 2018,  which  is the one Im 
considering, or say the urinary issues had occurred  before the policy  started and then 
formed the stones  which Mrs H claimed for. 
Taking all the above into account, I dont think Great Lakes  was able to show  the treatment 
claimed for in 2018 was for the same  condition that had been treated  in 2016. In any event, 
Mrs H wasnt aware  when  she took out the policy that there  was an existing condition  that 
was likely to lead to a claim. I dont think it would be fair to rely on the exclusion  to refuse the 
claim in the particular circumstances of this case.  So Great  Lakes should  reconsider the 
claim under the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Great Lakes Insurance SE should not apply  
the exclusion for pre-existing conditions and should  reconsider  this claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6482793