K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender lent him money  he couldnt afford 
to repay.  He wants a refund of interest  and charges applied to the loans.
background
Mr I took out 5 payday loans with Mr Lender between October 2013 and December 2014. 
Loan Date Amount borrowed
No. of 
deferralsDate repaid
1 27.10.13 £350 0 31.10.13
2 19.05.14 £600 2 18.07.14
3 01.08.14 £550 1 20.09.14
4 05.10.14 £500 2 13.12.14
5 14.12.14 £600 Repayment plan
03.01.17
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Is complaint be upheld. She didnt think  Mr Lenders 
checks were sufficient  for any of the loans as the repayments represented a relatively 
significant proportion  of Mr Is stated net monthly income of £1,700.
The adjudicator thought  Mr Lender  shouldve asked Mr I about his income and expenses,  
including any regular  financial commitments before  agreeing loans 1 and 2. At the point of 
loans 3 and 4 she thought  that Mr Lender should  have asked about  any short term financial 
commitments Mr I may have had. By the point  of loan 4 onwards the adjudicator considered  
that Mr Lender should have carried  out a full financial  review.  The adjudicator  thought that if 
Mr Lender had done this, it wouldve realised that loans 1-4 were  not affordable. She thought  
that the offer to refund  the interest and charges on loan 5 was fair in the circumstances.
The adjudicator asked Mr Lender to refund interest and charges on loans  1-4 and process  
the refund  offered for loan 5 and pay interest  on the refund. She also recommended that Mr 
Lender remove any negative information about the refunded loans  from Mr Is credit file.
Mr Lender doesnt agree  with this recommendation. It revised its offer to refund  loans  1 and 
2 in addition to loan 5 but Mr I rejected this. Mr Lender says its checks  were  proportionate 
and showed the loans  to be affordable.  Mr Lender says the credit  check didnt show anything  
of concern. It points  out that there was a significant  gap in borrowing between loans 1 and 2. 
At no point  during the application process was Mr Lender aware that Mr I was struggling 
financially. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to carry out checks  to make  sure      
Mr I could afford to repay each of the loans before it lent to him. These checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, the repayments and any lending 
history. But there wasnt a set list of checks Mr Lender had to do.
Ref: DRN63909072Loan one
Mr Lender says it asked Mr I for details of his income before it agreed  the loan. Mr I said his 
monthly net income was £1,700. It also carried out a credit  check.  This was Mr Is first loan 
with Mr Lender and it says there wasnt anything of concern in the credit check.
Ive thought about whether Mr Lenders checks were proportionate. Mr I hadnt borrowed 
from Mr Lender  before, so there wasnt any lending history to consider. But the repayment  
on the loan accounted for a relatively large proportion of Mr Is declared  monthly  income. I 
think adequate  checks shouldve included asking Mr I about his living costs and regular 
financial commitments  to make sure he had enough  money left to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way.
 
Although I dont consider Mr Lender  carried out proportionate checks, this doesnt 
necessarily mean that I must uphold Mr Is complaint. I would  need  to be persuaded that with 
proportionate checks, Mr Lender wouldve  discovered that Mr I couldnt  afford  the loan. 
Mr I has given these service  details of his outgoings  at the time of the loan. Ive also had a 
look at some of Mr Is bank statements. It seems as though  Mr I had regular monthly 
outgoings of about £1267  and regular financial commitments of £232.  I think if Mr Lender 
had asked Mr I about these expenses, it wouldve discovered he couldnt afford to repay the 
loan from his normal income. As a responsible lender, I dont think Mr Lender wouldve 
agreed to lend. 
Loans 2 and 3.
There was a significant gap before Mr I asked for his second loan. He gave his income figure 
as £1700 and said his outgoings  were  £1014.  The repayment for loan was £780. This was in 
excess of Mr Is declared disposable income. Based  on the information that was available  to 
Mr Lender loan 2 was unaffordable. Mr I asked for this loan to be rolled  over which  further 
demonstrates that he was unable to make the repayment. I think  that it was wrong to have 
given Mr I this loan.
Mr I asked for loan 3 a few weeks after loan 2 was repaid.  Mr I needed to repay £635. I think  
that Mr Lender should have checked whether Mr I had any other short  term lending  before 
giving him this loan given  the frequency of his borrowing and the significant amount of the 
repayment. If Mr Lender had made these checks it would have discovered that Mr I had 
around £1500 in short term lending due to be repaid  in addition  to his other outgoings. So 
loan 3 was unaffordable for Mr I and it was wrong  to agree the loan.
Loan 4
Mr I asked for loan 4 around two weeks after repaying loan 3. By this stage I think  that Mr 
Lender needed to verify what Mr I was saying about his income  and outgoings as his pattern 
of borrowing  suggested  reliance on short term credit. By this stage it was no longer safe to 
rely on what Mr I was saying about  his finances. I agree with the adjudicator that before  
agreeing loan 4 Mr Lender  should have carried out a full financial review and asked for proof 
of Mr Is income and outgoings.  One way it could have done  this was by asking for bank 
statements.
Ref: DRN63909073Ive looked at Mr Is bank statements for this period and I can see that his income was 
broadly what he had declared. His regular living costs were £1249. He had other regular 
financial outgoings of £312 and short term repayments due of £103.  Taking  all these  costs  
into account Mr I didnt  have enough disposable income to meet  the repayments due on this 
loan. I think if Mr Lender had done  what I consider to be proportionate checks  for this loan it 
wouldnt have agreed it.    
Loan 5
Mr Lender has already agreed  to refund the interest  and charges  in relation to this loan. As 
this doesnt appear  to be in dispute  I dont  consider  it is necessary for me to consider it 
further. I agree with the adjudicator that it would be fair and reasonable for Mr Lender to 
refund the interest and charges Mr I paid on this loan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, PDL Finance Limited trading 
as Mr Lender should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr I paid on the loans;  
Pay interest of 8% simple a year * on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and
Remove any negative  information about the loans from Mr Is credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Mr I a certificate showing how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6390907