K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company (SRI) have voided her car 
insurance policy and declined her claim. She also complains her car was damaged  while it 
was with SRIs salvage agent. 
background
Ms J took out her car insurance policy online through a comparison website in November 
2016 and made a claim in September 2017  after her car was driven  through  a partially 
flooded road. Water entered  the engine causing the car to break down. It was collected  and 
taken for inspection where it was decided the car should be written off due to it being beyond 
economical repair.   
SRI declined  the claim, and voided  Ms Js policy, saying they wouldnt have given  the cover  
had Ms J answered the questions correctly when taking it out. They said 
Ms J confirmed she hadnt committed any driving offences or had any fixed penalty points in 
the last five years, when in fact she was aware  of a driving offence from September  2016.
Ms J also feels  her car was damaged  by SRIs  salvage agent while in their care and has 
provided photos showing this. 
In relation to SRI voiding Ms Js policy, our investigator thought they had acted correctly. 
She said that the question Ms J was asked  when she took the policy out was clear, and that 
had Ms J answered the question correctly, SRI wouldnt have offered her cover.  Our 
investigator thought  Ms J had answered the question carelessly and that as a result, SRI 
should return Ms Js premiums, having already  cancelled the policy from the date of 
inception and declined  the claim. 
In terms of the damage caused by the salvage  agent, our investigator was of the opinion that 
they were responsible for some of it, and so asked  SRI to pay for damage to the front 
valance, to the front wheels and tyres,  the cost of cleaning the car and for the rear tow hook 
cover. She asked  Ms J to provide receipts to show how much  she paid for these repairs. If 
this wasnt possible,  she asked SRI to source an estimate from an engineer  and pay that 
amount.  For the damage that couldnt be evidenced  as being caused by the salvage  agent, 
our investigator believed this would already  have  been there before the car was taken  into 
their care. 
SRI agreed  to our investigators  recommendation, however  Ms J disagreed. She said that 
she assumed she would be able to declare any points when she found out whether or not 
shed be receiving them. Ms J also feels that the damage caused  to the car wasnt  picked up 
during the first inspection, meaning  it all must have been caused while the car was in the 
care of the salvage  agent. 
Because of this, Ms J asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Before I went ahead  with my decision, we went back to SRI to make sure they had refunded  
Ms Js premiums.  They responded  explaining they initially  had said the misrepresentation 
was reckless and confirmed they hadnt  refunded Ms Js premiums. They said they wanted 
to go back to their underwriters, however  we are yet to receive  response  having allowed 
over three weeks to pass. Because of this, I have  decided to go ahead and issue my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN64435522Our investigator has also let Ms J know, so shes aware we have asked SRI to refund her 
premiums. We also confirmed  to both parties  that upon review, I would be asking SRI to 
obtain three quotes for the repairs and pay the average to Ms J and allowed them time to 
comment. Despite  being made aware  neither party made any comments  further  to this so I 
think I can now proceed with my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During her insurance application, Ms J was asked:
Have you committed  any driving offences or had any fixed  penalty notices in the last 5 
years?
Ms J answered no to this question, but SRI have  voided the policy  as they feel she should  
have answered  yes. And I agree. 
In order to look into this point, I need to take into consideration the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosures and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA). This sets out that a consumer needs 
to take care not to make a misrepresentation when applying  for insurance. It also explains 
how an insurer should respond if and where  there  has been a misrepresentation. 
There are several questions that need to be answered here, I will go through each in turn. 
Was Ms J asked  a clear question and did Ms J take reasonable care to answer it correctly?  
Looking at the question (which I quoted  above) I think its clear.  Ms J has said she didnt 
know whether shed be given a fine, points or both at the time she took out the cover. But 
she did know that a driving offence  had been committed. And without anything  to show me 
that Ms J didnt know about this at the time of taking her policy out, I feel she should have 
answered yes to this question. I also think that as the offence was committed two months 
before Ms J took her policy out, its more likely than not, that Ms J wouldve been informed 
by the relevant authority  of the offence  by the time she took the policy  out. Ms J said she 
didnt know whether it would be a fine or points, but I dont  think  this matters  as the question 
she was asked was about driving offences  and not about points or fines. So I think  Ms J 
shouldve answered  yes and I dont think she took reasonable care when answering  the 
question.
Was the misrepresentation  a qualifying one? 
Here I must decide whether Ms J answering yes to this question would have made a 
difference to SRIs decision.  
SRI have  sent us a copy of the underwriting criteria, which  shows  what decisions they make  
based on the information they are given.  I can see that had Ms J answered yes to the above 
question, cover would  have  been declined. So SRI wouldve acted differently had it been 
provided with the correct  information and this makes the misrepresentation a qualifying one. 
Ref: DRN64435523Was the misrepresentation  deliberate,  reckless  or careless?
In this case I agree with the investigator  that Ms J answered the above question  carelessly. I 
say this because  Ms J says the reason she didnt declare it is because,  at the time of taking 
out the policy, she didnt know whether she would be receiving points or a fine. Also SRI only 
became aware  of this driving offence  because Ms J declared it to them herself when  she 
made a claim for her damaged car. I find it unlikely  that Ms J wouldve provided  this 
information if her initial  misrepresentation had been  reckless or deliberate.
 
SRI have  declined Ms Js claim, voided her policy, but havent  returned the premiums paid 
since the date of inception as they classed the misrepresentation  as reckless. However as I 
believe the misrepresentation was careless, Im asking  for the premiums  to be returned. This 
is in line with CIDRA (in cases of careless  misrepresentation).
the car damage
Turning to the damage caused by SRIs salvage  agents, Ive looked at the photos  provided 
by Ms J, together with the comments provided  by the salvage agent themselves and the 
engineers report.  Ill comment on the damage  I deem to be caused by SRIs agent, and the 
damage that doesnt. 
What SRI should be held responsible for 
Damage to the front valance-  The salvage agent  has said the damage looks to have been 
caused when  the car was on the vehicle used to transport it to them. This is the only 
evidence available  on this point. So, on balance, I think  this damage was caused when the 
car was in transit, so SRI are liable for this damage.
Damage to the front wheels and tyres - The salvage agent  has said that theres nothing  
they would  do that would  take chunks out of the tyres. However I would expect damage like 
this to be listed in the engineer's report- which isnt the case  here-  and it doesnt look like 
something that would  naturally occur over time.  So, I think SRI should be held responsible  
for this.
Water damage to the inside of the car- From the photos it looks  to me as though the car 
wasn't secured  properly  at the salvage agents  premises as the window is open. So I think  
SRI should cover the cost of cleaning the interior.
Removal of rear tow hook cover - The salvage  agent has said this may have been 
removed by the original recovery  agent.  Without  any evidence to the contrary, I think  its 
more likely than not that this is what  happened, so I think SRI should  cover the cost of this. 
What SRI should not be held responsible for 
 
Damage to the front wheels/ suspension-  The salvage agent has said this was damage 
present on arrival, and the engineers report suggests suspension damage was sustained  in 
the incident, so, on balance,  I don't think SRI was responsible for this damage so I dont 
think it should pay for any repairs here.
Knowledge that the car has been moved round by a fork lift and possibly  dragged  
around against its hand brake and gearbox-  There is no evidence to show  that this is 
what happened here. So I cant conclude this is the fault of SRI.
Ref: DRN64435524The driver electric window has been forced open - The engineer's report  says the window 
was open when it was inspected. The salvage  agent  also said that while the window had 
been covered  in plastic covering, it was evident that the interior had been exposed  to the 
winter elements with water damage  in the cabin. Because of this I wont be asking  SRI to 
pay for this damage. 
Front offside  passenger mirror  further damaged- From what  I can see this was already 
damaged, and I have  nothing  to suggest  this was made worse by SRI's agents so wont  be 
asking SRI to cover this cost.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Southern Rock Insurance  Company 
should:
refund  Ms Js policy premium plus interest from the date of the claim to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple*
cover  the cost of the work to repair the damage  mentioned above which I thought 
was caused by their salvage agent (relating to the front valance,  the front wheels and 
tyres, the water damage to the inside and removal of the rear tow hook cover). The 
car is currently in SRIs possession, so they should obtain three estimates, and pay 
the average to Ms J. They  should also pay interest  on the amount they pay out from 
the date the damage  was caused to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple* 
*If SRI consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest,  they should tell Ms J how much  theyve taken off. They  should also give 
Ms J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Danielle Padden 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6443552