K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that she was mis-sold  a packaged  bank account  called  a Silver Added 
Value Account (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
background
Mrs J took out a SAVA in February  2011  which incurred a monthly fee of £3 for the first two 
months and then £7.95 per month  thereafter. 
Mrs J says she was pressurised into taking out the SAVA because Lloyds told her it was the 
only way she could  get an overdraft facility.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Js complaint  and decided  that Lloyds didnt mis-sell the 
SAVA. Mrs J disagrees so the complaint  has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Js complaint.
Firstly I need to consider  whether or not Mrs J was aware the SAVA  was optional and 
whether she was given  a clear choice in out taking the account.
Mrs J says she was pressurised into taking out the SAVA to get an overdraft facility. I think  
its more likely than not that her memory  is mistaken. I say this because Mrs J had previously 
had a fee free account with an overdraft with Lloyds. So I think she knew that fee free 
accounts with overdrafts were available from Lloyds.  And I think  she wouldve been aware 
that using an overdraft wasnt the only way she could  borrow money from Lloyds or 
elsewhere if she needed it. 
I can see from her SAVA statements that she didnt change  her overdraft facility for a long 
time after opening the SAVA. So I dont think she had an immediate financial demand that 
drove her to take the SAVA when she didnt need to or that Lloyds pressurised her to do so.
So I think its more likely  than not that Lloyds discussed with her that the SAVA provided a 
range of benefits and this appealed to her. And I think Mrs J was aware she had a choice 
and chose to take out the SAVA.
Lloyds advised  Mrs J to take out the SAVA. So, Lloyds  needed  to provide Mrs J with 
sufficient information  about the SAVA to make an informed choice. And in recommending 
the SAVA, it also needed to take adequate steps  to ensure that the SAVA  was a reasonable 
fit for Mrs Js circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including European travel  insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance  and sentinel card protection.  And it offered a £10 
fee free overdraft  buffer  on an arranged overdraft  facility.  
I dont know what Lloyds  said or what information  it gave Mrs J about the SAVA but I think it 
wouldve been of interest to her in her circumstances. The AA breakdown  service  covered 
Ref: DRN64974652Mrs J whether she was driving  a vehicle or simply  a passenger. Lloyds has provided 
evidence that she had a mobile  phone and registered it for the insurance cover  shortly after 
taking out the SAVA and again  a couple of years later; she enquired  abut the insurance 
cover in later years and she wouldve benefitted  from the overdraft facility.  And there was 
nothing in her circumstances that would have stopped her using any of the benefits.
So in my view the SAVA was suitable for Mrs J. And there was no information that she didnt  
receive from Lloyds that would likely  have put her off taking out the SAVA. So I dont think  
Mrs J lost out when Lloyds sold her the SAVA.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6497465