K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Cumberland Building Society (Cumberland) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in 1999  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy at a meeting in a branch.
Cumberland has said the policy  provided cover on Mr C for accident, sickness,  and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations  and offered to repay  £200  a 
month towards Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. The 
policy cost £10.50 a month.
At the time,  Mr C was employed  as an electrician and had been there for three and a half 
years. He has said he was entitled to at least six months sick pay. A form filled in at the time 
by his employer  says that if he was off work Mr C was entitled to 75% full pay for four weeks  
for an injury at work.  As this form is from the time of the sale,  and was filled in by Mr Cs 
employer, and given  also how long ago the sale was, Im not persuaded Mr Cs recollections  
about his sick pay are accurate and I think his employers form is likely to reflect  more  
accurately Mr Cs employee benefits at the time.
Mr C has also said he was entitled  to redundancy pay of at least twice  his annual  salary. But 
taking into account  what Ive said above  about  Mr Cs work sick pay, and his short length of 
service, Im not persuaded Mr C was entitled to the redundancy pay he has recalled - but he 
wouldve been entitled to statutory redundancy pay. Likewise Mr and Mrs C have said they 
had £5000 in savings but their mortgage application  indicates savings of around £16000 and 
Ive taken this into account in assessing the complaint.
Mr C told us he didnt have any health  problems when he took the PPI. But a life insurance 
form, which Cumberland says was filled in for the mortgage, says Mr C had an infection in 
1998. Mr C has since told us he had surgery for this and was off work for two weeks. 
Mrs C worked  part-time  as a check out operator and had been there for two months at the 
time of the sale. She has told us she worked less than 16 hours per week.  The mortgage 
application indicates her earnings  werent  taken  into account for the mortgage application.
Cumberland has sent us a screenshot to show  that the mortgage account  ended in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative  says:
Cumberland failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN67095372The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Cumberland  should have told 
Mr and Mrs C about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Cumberland  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs C and 
the impact they would have had on their chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator initially thought the complaint  should be upheld but a second adjudicator on 
review didnt uphold  the complaint  and both parties have seen and had a chance  to 
provide their responses  to that adjudicators  opinion. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
Ref: DRN67095373complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Cumberland at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. Ive also taken account of relevant law 
in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to negligence,  contract  (including  the 
express and implied  duty on professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care 
and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good faith; and the law relating to 
causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Cumberland was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN67095374-If Cumberland gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Cumberland gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs C 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and Cumberland, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
Cumberland had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs C have said they 
werent aware they were paying for PPI and they wouldve turned it down if theyd been 
given the option. But Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application form had a separate  section for 
the PPI with a yes and no box for each of them to say whether they required the PPI. The 
yes box was ticked for Mr C and for Mrs C the no box was ticked  and Mr and Mrs C both 
signed below these ticks in the PPI section  specifically to indicate that they were aware of 
the implications of not arranging protection. With all this in mind  I think  Mr and Mrs C were  
likely aware  of the selections made  and these  likely  reflected their wishes at the time. Also to 
take the PPI the form indicates that a separate proposal form should be completed.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs C knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
did Cumberland  provide advice?
Mr and Mrs C say they cant recall  whether Cumberland gave them advice or recommended 
they take the PPI. Cumberland says it did provide advice - and if it did it had to do more. 
With all this in mind, I think  its fair to proceed  on the basis that Cumberland did give advice.
This means  Cumberland  had to advise Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Cumberland took to establish whether  the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs C. Cumberland  says its adviser wouldve made Mr C aware 
of relevant medical exclusions and it says Mr Cs policy proposal form asked about any 
health issues hed had in the past year. But Cumberland hasnt got a copy  of Mr Cs form 
and theres no record  of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy  specifically. The 
adviser had some limited  information about Mr and Mrs Cs financial circumstances, but 
there is no specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr C would 
Ref: DRN67095375have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations  for example in relation  to 
any pre-existing medical conditions Mr C had - which might have meant  the policy didnt fully 
meet the needs of Mr and Mrs C. I say this bearing in mind  that details of Mr Cs 1998  health 
issue were given on a separate life cover application  form and its possible  this was also 
discussed in connection with the PPI - but I dont have a record of such a discussion.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Cumberland did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs C given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Cumberland advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Cumberland did all it should have done to make sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs C had a need  for the policy. Even  allowing for the sickness and redundancy 
benefits Mr C was entitled to and the income Mrs C mightve had, it seems  likely their 
finances would be put under strain if Mr C, the main wage  earner, wasnt  working. In any 
case, taking into account what Ive said about Mrs Cs earnings and Mr Cs sick pay and 
other work benefits, its seems likely Mr and Mrs C would suffer  a very significant drop in 
their income if Mr C lost his job or was too sick to work.  The policy would, for a 
successful claim,  help Mr and Mrs C manage  the consequences of that  also helping  to 
protect their savings or leaving them free to meet other liabilities.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs C.
-Regarding the 1998 infection Mr C has told us about, it hadnt led to a long work absence 
when it happened  and I havent  seen  anything to suggest it was due to an underlying 
condition or cause that made  it likely to cause more  problems for him in future. Also I 
havent anything  to suggest  his 1998 health issue was ongoing at the time of the sale 
and Mr C told us he didnt have  health problems at the time. With all this in mind, 
although any claim related to Mr Cs 1998  health issue  wasnt  likely to be covered, Im 
not persuaded this made  the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C.
-I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr C wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. There was nothing about Mr Cs employment or occupation which 
would have made it difficult for Mr and Mrs C to claim, for example. Also there were no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems. So overall, with all 
this in mind  and taking into account the other  points above  - I dont think the exclusions 
or limitations made  the policy  unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs C.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition and the fact the policy would  only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, including what Ive said above about Mrs Cs income, 
Mr Cs existing sickness and redundancy provision and the loss of income they would  
suffer if Mr C lost his income  due to disability or redundancy; and
Ref: DRN67095376The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to Mr and Mrs Cs 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs C be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Cumberland gave Mr and Mrs C 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Cumberland was recommending to them and make an informed  decision  about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr C was unable to work through disability or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. 
I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have taken 
out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium 
might be. Also the PPI section of their mortgage  application form says the PPI is insurance 
to cover mortgage payments in case of periods of unforeseen financial difficulty caused  by 
problems such as accidents, sickness and unemployment.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Cumberland gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the policy.  A mortgage  quotation  for 
Mr and Mrs C that sets out the PPI premium was produced  before the mortgage offer and 
mortgage start date,  but after Mr and Mrs C had signed their mortgage application  so Im 
not persuaded they saw this before  they decided to agree to take the PPI.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs C Im not persuaded 
Cumberland did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Cumberland gave 
Mr and Mrs C all of the information  they needed about the policy to make an informed 
decision about whether to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Cs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather  than the insurer.
-The common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs C about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Ref: DRN67095377Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Cumberland  ought to have done either. 
what effect did Cumberlands shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent  
did Mr and Mrs C suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Cumberland didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs C. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs C suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs C would have still taken out the policy,  had Cumberland  done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Cumberland took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs C have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Cumberland had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs C would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event. Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I 
should presume  this to be the case given the significant failings  identified  above. Ive 
considered the representations of both sides  and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition. 
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs C had some interest in taking PPI. By this I 
mean when  Cumberland offered it to them or advised them there was a suitable  product they 
could buy that would  protect  their mortgage  payments  in the event  that Mr C was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, Im not satisfied that Cumberland told them  the exact premium at 
the point Mr and Mrs C applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs C 
were told the cost before the policy started,  so if the costs were significantly at odds with the 
expectations theyd  had when they applied its possible they might  have raised  that with 
Cumberland at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Ref: DRN67095378Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs C would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Cumberland  made  clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs C would get 
back in return if they made a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Cs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  that on the policy  start date Mr C 
knew of or ought to have known of or health  issues hed had advice  or treatment for in 
the 12 months before the policy start that recurred within  12 months of the policy  start; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim Mr C be unable to do his 
own job, or any other work for which he was reasonably qualified;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from taking out the 
policy.
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr C was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
Mr and Mrs C should the insured  risks have become a reality.  Although  the policy wouldnt 
have provided  cover  had Mr C had a work  absence related to the 1998 infection,  Mr C told 
us he didnt have  health problems at the time of the sale, the past issue  hadnt led to a long 
work absence and I havent  seen anything to suggest it was due to an underlying  condition  
or cause  that mightve made Mr C believe it likely to cause him problems in future. With all 
this in mind,  Im not persuaded better  information  about this exclusion would have put him off 
agreeing to the cover.  And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been caught  
by any of the other significant exclusions. So I think he still had some good reasons to take 
the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs C would  have expected to make a disability  claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs C had known they could only claim for disability if Mr C was not only unable  to 
do his job but also unable to do any other work  for which he was reasonably qualified, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what to do. And I accept it may have given them 
Ref: DRN67095379pause for thought  although given Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances,  on balance, I think they 
still would  have been interested in taking out the cover. 
Cumberland may not have told Mr and Mrs C that any claim they made would  be limited to a 
12 month period.  This may have differed from what they expected  and might  have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mr C would have received his work  sick pay for and 
his statutory redundancy entitlements  were also significantly  less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr C be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
Mr and Mrs Cs outgoings at a difficult and uncertain  time, help ensure their home  was not 
placed at risk and could  help preserve Mr and Mrs Cs savings for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr C were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mr and Mrs C would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover. Theyve said they already had life cover, but the PPI policy wasnt  for life cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That 
guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with 
many other things when  I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering the 
purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach I 
have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as result of the sale was the same position  they would have been  in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred.
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN670953710represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Cumberland should  pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs C think Cumberland misrepresented the terms of the policy 
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of Cumberlands  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Cumberland failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Cumberland  gave 
Mr and Mrs C, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1999  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Cumberland  negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs C and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Cumberland  had been in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6709537