K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Novaloans  Ltd didnt remove a loan from his credit file after he 
requested a cancellation.
background
Mr W applied  for a loan online with Novaloans in May 2016. He called up Novaloans to 
cancel his application when he realised that there  would be a delay  in processing his 
application. Novaloans  didnt cancel the loan and paid Mr W the money. Mr W didnt notice 
straightaway but he tried to settle the loan early and then complained  to Novaloans as his 
payments werent  processed properly.
Novaloans agreed  that it should have cancelled the loan following Mr Ws request and in 
2017 it paid Mr W £50 as a gesture of goodwill following his complaint to this service.
In February 2018  Mr W noticed that the loan was still on his credit  file and he called  and 
asked Novaloans to remove it. A request was sent to the credit reference agencies  by 
Novaloans a few days after this call. Mr W complained about the poor service received from 
Novaloans and said that the loan should  have been  removed  from his credit file in 2016.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  was upheld. He thought that Novaloans 
had acted quickly when  Mr W asked it to remove the loan from his credit  file and the £50 that 
had been paid previously was fair.
Mr W didnt agree and said that the loan shouldve been removed from his credit file in 2016 
as part of his original complaint and he said he had not received £50.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the £50 was paid in relation to Mr Ws original  complaint about the cancellation  
of the loan and Mr W has confirmed this is the case.  This was paid to compensate Mr W for 
the inconvenience of Novaloans failing to cancel the loan. 
I have looked  at the previous complaint and I cant see that Mr W ever asked for the loan to 
be removed from his credit file. I havent  seen anything from Mr W that confirms he raised 
this as part of his original complaint or that Novaloans agreed  to do it. Because Mr W didnt 
notice that the loan had been paid and tried to repay it early he did not withdraw  from it in the 
usual way. This seems  to be why it stayed on his credit file.
When Mr W asked  Novaloans to remove the loan from his credit file this was done  quickly.  I 
agree with the adjudicator  that as soon as this issue was brought to the attention of 
Novaloans it took steps to deal with it. I cant say on the evidence Ive seen that the business 
made a mistake by not removing the loan from Mr Ws credit  file earlier.
Mr W said that when he called to raise this issue, a manager at Novaloans  was rude to him. 
The recording of the call isnt available so I cant be sure what  happened.  In any event, it 
seems that the credit  file was amended following the call.
Ref: DRN62970602I understand that Mr W is upset that this loan wasnt removed at the time and he has had to 
make another complaint.  But I cant say that Novaloans has done anything  wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6297060