K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about how Studio  Retail Limited  handled his application for an account. 
background
Mr O applied for a credit  account with an online shopping retailer. The credit account  was 
provided by Studio. Following further  checks, Mr Os application  was declined.
Mr O complained to Studio. He said he had experienced problems with credit  applications  
being fraudulently made with his details  in the past. So he had set up a password notice of 
correction on his credit file. This is a note that advises  companies accessing his credit  file to 
ask for a specific password from him before  proceeding with the application. He said Studio 
hadnt done this so should remove the credit  check marker on his file. He also requested an 
explanation for why his application had been declined, why he hadnt  been contacted for the 
password and made a subject access request (SAR)  in relation to the application. He said 
Studio should  provide compensation for the poor service.
Studio didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said the checks carried  out as part of an application 
for credit cover a broad range of factors,  not just the credit file. It also said that although  it is 
obliged to read notes on credit  files it isnt obliged to act on them.  So it hadnt done anything  
wrong.
Mr O wasnt happy with Studios response. He said the credit check marker should be 
removed from his credit file. He also said Studio had failed to carry out his SAR within the 
required time frames so should pay compensation.  He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
She said as a credit search had been made  as part of the application, it is fair that this 
shows on Mr Os credit file. And she didnt think Studio had treated him unfairly by not asking 
him for the password before carrying out the check. She also said that Studio  had carried  out 
a SAR as requested by Mr O so wouldnt recommend it pay compensation.
Mr O didnt agree. He said studio hadnt  fulfilled its obligations regarding  the SAR and he felt 
it should have  contacted  him before fulfilling the credit check. He asked for his complaint to 
be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr O has added a password notice of correction to his credit file. All businesses who carry 
out a credit check are obliged, under  law, to read such a notice. However they are not 
obliged to act on the contents  of the notice or to take it into account  as part of the checks  
they carry out. It is their decision whether to do so or not. So Studio hasnt done anything 
wrong by not asking  Mr O for the password.  However I need to decide if it has treated Mr O 
fairly in the circumstances.
Studio has said that Mr Os application  was declined as he didnt meet  its credit  eligibility  
criteria, based  on a number of different checks.  It says the outcome of these checks  would 
have been the same even if it had asked for the password. So I cant  see that Studios 
Ref: DRN62797802decision not to act on the request in the notification has had an impact  on Mr O. The 
outcome would have  been the same  regardless.
Further, I have considered the purpose of the notice of correction - to make  sure any 
fraudulent applications are stopped  and flagged with Mr O. In this case there is no dispute 
that the application has been made  by Mr O. So Studio  asking for the password wouldnt 
have added any additional protection in this instance. 
Mr O says Studio should remove the credit check marker from his file because  it didnt ask 
for the password as requested in the notice. I dont think  this is a fair request. When Mr O 
applied for credit with Studio, he was notified  that it would carry out further checks  including 
a credit check. This would have happened  regardless  of whether Studio asked for a 
password or not. The marker is therefore accurate a search was carried out and Mr O 
doesnt dispute that it was him that applied for the credit.  As a credit file is supposed  to be an 
accurate reflection of an individuals credit activity,  I dont think its fair to ask Studio  to 
remove this marker.
So I dont  think Studio has treated Mr O unfairly by not asking for the password as requested 
in his notice of correction, and I wont ask it to do anything differently in that respect.
In regards to Mr Os SAR, I can see that he made this request in relation to the credit 
application in November 2018.  The SAR was sent to Mr O in December that year. I 
understand Mr O was unhappy  with the contents of the SAR and requested further 
information after this. However from what Ive seen  Studio dealt with Mr Os SAR promptly 
and in line with what we would expect. I dont  agree  that it has provided poor service here. If 
Mr O has concerns about whether Studio met its obligations in fulfilling the request under 
data legislation, then he should raise this with the Information Commissioners Officer. 
However Im not going to ask Studio to pay Mr O any compensation in relation to its handling 
of his SAR.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I wont require Studio Retail Limited to do anything  differently or in 
addition.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2020
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6279780