K820x#14complaint
Mr V says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr V bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think it most  likely  to have happened in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint because:
 I think Halifax made Mr V aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it. 
It seems  the adviser filled in Mr Vs application  form on a computer and completed the 
relevant box to say he wanted PPI. But I think its likely  the adviser would have 
discussed the PPI with Mr V before doing so, and made him aware it was optional.  
Although I accept it is possible PPI wasnt discussed, it is equally likely it was  
although I can understand why Mr V may no longer remember this. 
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr V, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. Mr V says he had savings 
when the policy  was sold. Ive taken these  into account, in addition  to his sick pay, 
salary and the policy cost and benefit. The policy wouldve paid out in addition  to Mr 
Vs employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. And it wouldve  meant  Mr 
V could use his savings to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr V wouldve had some 
use for the policy, despite his existing arrangements.  
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mr V would have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ref: DRN63068202my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6306820