K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that, without  their consent, ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES 
LIMITED, trading as Autonet Insurance Services Limited, (Autonet) set up a building  
insurance policy for them and entered them into a credit agreement to pay for it.
background
Mr and Mrs W were contacted by their insurance  provider,  P, to let them know  that it wasnt  
able to provide  cover  at the next renewal point. It told them  itd pass  their details  to Autonet  
to give them a quotation.
In September  2018, Autonet wrote to Mrs W to ask her to get in touch. Mrs W phoned them  
on 1 October 2018. During this call, Autonet  said it needed to speak to P and would call her 
back afterwards with a quote. 
Autonet didnt call Mrs W back and didnt give her a quotation. Instead, it set up a building  
insurance policy for Mr and Mrs W and entered them into a credit  agreement to pay for it.
On 23 October, Autonet sent out a welcome pack to Mrs W. Following this, it sent a number 
of letters  to Mrs W in November, December  and January explaining  initially that the policy 
would be cancelled as the direct debit  hadnt  been  paid,  then that itd been cancelled and 
finally that there was an outstanding balance to pay of just over £130  on the account and 
chasing payment  of this.
As this wasnt paid, the debt was passed to an external debt collection company. 
In late April 2019, Mrs W got in touch with Autonet about this. It accepted it incepted a policy 
for you along with providing your details to [a credit provider, C] to incept a credit  agreement 
to fund the policy. So it upheld Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. To put things right, Autonet took 
the following  steps:
1.Contacted  the debt collection  company to ask it to pass  the debt back  to it and 
ensure no mark is left on Mr and Mrs Ws credit history;
2.Asked C to remove the credit  search  completed  when the credit  agreement was 
taken out;
3.Removed all fees applied by Autonet  and will be covering  the time on risk and the 
cost of optional  extras;
4.Given its unreserved apology for what had happened, accepting  it hadnt offered 
service to a standard it should have;
5.Offered to pay compensation of £75 for any distress and inconvenience caused; and
6.Said itd give feedback to the manager  of the agent involved.
Mrs W was unhappy with this and initially asked Autonet for compensation of £7,500 for 
what had happened, reducing her request to £3,000 throughout emails with Autonet.  It 
offered compensation of £200  in total but didnt agree  to increase the offer further. 
Mrs W explained to our investigator that she didnt get in touch with Autonet  sooner than 
April 2019 as her husband had been unwell. And says this matter  has caused  her stress, 
inconvenience and anxiety. She also says this affected them trying to get a mobility car.
Ref: DRN69205192Our investigator looked into matters and thought from what hed seen that Autonet  had taken 
the appropriate steps to put things right as soon as itd been made aware  of the mistake.  So 
he didnt feel Autonet  needed do anything further. 
Mrs W disagrees. She makes a number of points including  the following: 
It took her to email  a director to have the compensation increased to £200 from £75.
She didnt get any letters from Autonet other than the welcome pack. She says the 
other letters she had were from C.
Its very unfair  for the investigator to question why it took her so long to complain. 
She was dealing with her husband and his mental health and there were other things 
that she had to put first. 
Whilst Autonet have  put things right, its the stress, inconvenience  and worry. She 
had to contact  someone higher  up to look into it. It never  shouldve happened  in the 
first place.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr and Mrs W that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. And I think he set out the position  clearly about why he didnt feel Autonet  
needed to do anything more to put things right. So theres not much I feel I can usefully add 
to what has already been said.
The key facts about this arent in dispute. Autonet has admitted it got things wrong. The only 
issue I have to decide is whether the things  it has done  to put things  right, including  the 
amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Autonet should  compensate Mr and Mrs W for the inconvenience caused 
by setting up an insurance policy and credit agreement  without their permission. However,  I 
also think its important to explain  that, as a service,  our awards are designed to compensate  
consumers, not punish  organisations. 
We look at the impact any mistakes have  had on the consumer concerned.  I can see from 
what has been said by Mrs W that she has found  this very stressful.  But I think Autonet took 
this matter seriously and took steps to reduce  the impact of its actions as soon as the 
situation was brought  to its attention in late April. It apologised to Mr and Mrs W, put things 
rights in terms of the credit agreement and credit file and offered to pay compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience caused  by this. I believe this is a fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN69205193I appreciate the compensation  was increased but this was done  in early May.  So this still 
wasnt long after Mrs W had initially got in touch with Autonet  to notify it of a problem. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Autonet to reconsider the amount itd paid Mrs W and 
increase its offer of compensation as it felt that was more appropriate.
I appreciate what Mrs W has said about  the time it took her to tell Autonet about its mistake - 
she had other things which were more  important and had to be put first. But this doesnt 
mean I can fairly ask Autonet to pay an increased amount of compensation as a result of 
this. I do feel its fair to balance this with what Autonet did as soon as it was made  aware of 
the mistake. Having  done so, I think its fair to assume that, if itd been made aware  sooner 
than it was, it wouldve  put things right earlier  than it did. And I think  this wouldve minimised  
the impact of what had happened on Mr and Mrs W. 
Finally, Im not ignoring the fact that Mrs W has mentioned theres been an impact on their 
ability to get a mobility  car. But I havent  seen  any evidence of this and, for the reasons set 
out above, I think that if Autonet  had been contacted sooner   for example when the 
welcome letter was received  - any impact on them couldve been  significantly reduced.
I know that Mrs W has told us that she feels Autonet have shared her personal  information 
with C and committed fraud. And she questions how many other people have been affected 
by a similar situation. But my role is to consider whether Autonet  have acted fairly and 
reasonably in putting things right in relation to the policy and credit  agreement it set up 
without permission in Mr and Mrs Ws case.  And I think it has for the reasons set out above.
Having said this, I think its important  to explain that were an informal dispute resolution 
service and its not my role to determine  if there  has been a data breach  by a company or 
fraud committed. That would be for other  bodies   such  as the police,  court and information 
commissioners office - to decide. 
I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to informally resolve  their dispute with Autonet   can do for them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 September 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6920519