K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 1995. 
Mr and Mrs G say HSBC  UK Bank  Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, including Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed  with 
the adjudicators  opinion   it didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same  
complaint points and arguments it had previously made. As the complaint  couldnt be 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published example final decisions that set out in detail  how these relevant considerations 
may apply  to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed information here, 
but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ive summarised my reasons for 
this conclusion below:
 
HSBC no longer has papers from Mr and Mrs Gs sale to show how the PPI was sold to 
them. That isnt too surprising given the time thats  passed. Mr and Mrs G have said PPI 
was just included  in their mortgage package.  I give this some weight, but I also bear in 
mind Mr and Mrs G set out their recollections for us more than 20 years  after the sale - 
so it wouldnt be surprising if they didnt recall all the details. With that in mind, what they 
can recall isnt, on its own, enough to make  me think HSBC  just included  the PPI without 
giving Mr and Mrs G a choice  and I havent anything else to make me think that. For 
example, I havent anything to make me think HSBC  didnt usually give consumers like 
Mr and Mrs G a choice and get their agreement to the PPI before adding  it.
Taking everything into account,  and I appreciate there isnt much  to go on, I think  its 
more likely HSBC made  it clear Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take the PPI and they chose 
to take it. But it would be understandable if they didnt  recall this now.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, so it had to check  the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about  their circumstances at the time shows the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for them.
Ref: DRN69776152For example, Mr G was eligible for the cover and, from what  hes told us, he was entitled 
to no more than statutory pay for sickness  or redundancy  so it seems Mr and Mrs G 
had a need for the cover, taking into account  the loss of income they could  suffer were 
Mr G unable to work  for an extended time due to sickness or unemployment. The PPI 
cover was on Mr G only - so what Mr and Mrs G have said about Mrs G already  having 
cover doesnt change my view. Also, Mr and Mrs G had savings theyd so far chosen to 
keep rather than use to reduce  the mortgage - the PPI benefit couldve helped  then keep 
those savings intact or free for other uses at what could be a difficult  time if Mr G were 
unemployed or too sick to work.
Mr Gs employment or occupation wouldnt have made it difficult  for Mr and Mrs G to 
claim. They couldnt have claimed  for work absences he suffered if related to the health 
issue hed got doctors  advice  for 15 years before the sale. So Ive taken into account  all 
theyve told us about this, including how long had passed since  then, and the absence  of 
anything suggesting  it kept Mr G off work. With all this in mind, I dont think  future  work  
absences from this ought to have been  considered so likely that their exclusion made  the 
cover no longer worthwhile for Mr and Mrs G or made it wrong for HSBC to recommend 
the cover. Also Mr G didnt have any other health  issues the policy  mightve excluded. 
There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found, more  likely  than not, they chose to take it - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them, as I 
concluded above  or too dissimilar  to what its likely, from the information  they were  
given, they reasonably thought  they were buying, bearing in mind also I think it unlikely 
they wouldve  bought the PPI without at least a broad understanding of what it covered. 
It also looks like the cover  was affordable. Overall  it seems like the cover wouldve been 
useful for Mr and Mrs G if something  went wrong.  Because  of this I dont think  they 
wouldve declined the cover had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs G would still have taken the PPI. The policy  couldve provided  
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances. I also think it was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think  
they wouldve  taken  the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed  the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim. 
But Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Gs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
Ive thought about these  things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs particular case. 
But these  points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about whats  fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - which I dont  think  I should uphold,  for the reasons 
Ive given. This means HSBC doesnt have  to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN69776153my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2021..
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6977615