K822xComplaint
Ms L complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund  £25,000 she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on 17 November 2020 asking TSB to refund Ms L £25,000 
plus account interest. My provisional decision, which Ive set out below, explains what  
happened.
Upon reading all the available  evidence  and arguments, I have concluded  that the fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances,  would be to uphold this complaint for the 
following reasons:
It is common ground that Ms L authorised a payment of £25,000 on 14 November 2018. She 
was duped by the scammers into completing an online  transfer to a fake investment 
company to buy a bond. 
After selling a house Ms L had a larger than normal  balance in her TSB account. As she was 
concerned her balance  wouldnt  be protected, she looked in to buying a bond  and also 
transferred funds to a newly  opened account. After searching for bonds online Ms L 
completed some contact details on company As site and later received a call from it. The 
agent of company A stated  it sold the products of a well-known provider. Ms L was provided 
with details by email and had a number of conversations with company A. Ms L hadnt 
bought a bond before and says that as her brother is good with money,  she asked him to 
look in to company  A. She doesnt  know the nature  of her brothers search, but he told her 
he thought company A was a legitimate business.  Ms L says she thought  her brother had 
consulted her daughter  in law, who was an investment banker, but later discovered he 
hadnt. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Ms L was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security  credentials to request the payment. So, although 
she didnt intend  the money to go to the scammers,  under  the Payment Services  
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms L is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  transactions  or other signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
Ref: DRN63518722In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice TSB should have been 
on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered whether 
the £25,000 payment request Ms L made was out of character and unusual. Having 
reviewed her bank statements for the six months before the transaction  Im satisfied it was. 
Ms L made mainly low value payments from the account. The largest payment in the period 
was a direct  debit payment for £4,255.59  to a car finance company. The next largest 
payments were for £1,500  to family  members.  Ms L used internet banking  infrequently  and 
this was the first international  payment shed  made.  So I consider  the payment to be 
unusual. 
TSB has said the payment Ms L made  on 14 November 2018 didnt flag as unusual. It 
referred to the fact Ms L had a telephone  conversation with TSB on 13 November after an 
online transfer she tried to make the previous evening  was stopped and her account locked. 
The blocked  payment was for £60,000 and was to a new bank account Ms L had just 
opened. During the call Ms L explained  she had a high balance in her TSB account  because 
shed sold a house. She now wished  to spread her funds across different accounts as she 
didnt have FSCS protection for the whole  balance and also planned to buy a bond and get 
an ISA. In the call Ms L said, so therell  probably be quite a lot of unusual  activity going on 
with that account  over the next couple  of weeks.  TSB said that following this call it was less 
likely to ask further  security questions for payments from the same  device. 
Despite the call the day before I believe TSB should  have identified  Ms L may have been at 
risk of financial  harm when she transferred £25,000. The £60,000 payment had not been 
released, and in any event was to another account  in Ms Ls name. In fact, the payment was 
never made and instead Ms L issued a cheque for £50,000. I also dont think  it was 
reasonable to rely on a comment by Ms L that there  was likely to be more  unusual activity on 
the account without any further investigation.
I consider TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have identified that Ms L was potentially  at risk 
of financial harm when  she made  an international transfer for £25,000 and made additional  
checks before processing the payment. Specifically, I consider TSB should have asked Ms L 
about the reason for the payment at the time,  how she found  company A, what checks  she 
had completed,  the rate of return and why it was an international payment. 
Had TSB contacted  Ms L and asked her some questions about  the payment I believe its 
more likely than not the scam would have become apparent and would have been 
prevented. I say this because:
-If Ms L had been asked if company  A was FCA registered she would have said she 
didnt know, as Ms L has confirmed she didnt check this. Company A wasnt FCA 
regulated and wasnt selling the products of an FCA regulated company but a clone 
of one.
-Any questions about the checks Ms L had completed would have identified she didnt 
do any herself and wasnt aware of the nature of the checks completed by her 
Ref: DRN63518723brother. Whilst Ms L has said her brother was good with money, she hasnt  
suggested he had any expert knowledge. 
-The annual rate of return for the three-year bond  was 10%, which  is high and, if 
discussed, would have been  a red flag. 
-Ms L would have struggled to explain why she was making an international payment 
for a bond  taken  out through a company  that was supposedly  registered in the UK 
(but was in fact cloned). 
Given all of these factors I consider that had a conversation have taken place its more likely 
than not Ms L wouldnt have made  the payment. 
I have also considered whether Ms L should  bear some  responsibility for her loss. Im 
satisfied Ms L was the victim of a sophisticated  scam and that she genuinely believed she 
was making a legitimate investment through a well-known company. She asked her brother 
to complete some basic checks on her behalf and at the time of the transfer believed her 
brother had consulted  her daughter in law, who was an investment banker. In the 
circumstances I dont  think  Ms L acted unreasonably. 
Ms L accepted my findings, but TSB did not. It said:
-The nature  and level of Ms Ls transaction wouldnt trigger  any further investigation 
and wasnt so unusual  as to put TSB on notice  of potentially fraudulent activity.
-TSB employs monitoring systems and fraud prevention and detection tools  which 
strike an important balance between allowing legitimate transactions and preventing 
those that might  be fraudulent.
-The requisite  industry  standard to assess TSBs  actions against is whether TSB has 
proportionately challenged payment instructions  where it had reason to believe a 
customer may be a victim of fraud. The BSI PAS Code shouldnt be applied as a tick 
list as, for example, adding a new payee is not in itself unusual. 
-Ms Ls actions in moving funds after her account was credited with a large sum from 
a house sale were not at all unusual.
-The day before the transaction  in question Ms L had attempted  to make an online 
payment of £60,000 to another payee  but TSB stopped the payment and blocked her 
account as the payment exceeded the online Faster Payment  limit. This meant TSB 
was fully aware Ms L was in control of her security details and was in the process of 
making some large payments.
-Had Ms L have been questioned about  the £25,000 payment the outcome would be 
the same  as shed  still have made  the payment. 
-TSB wouldnt  have been  aware at the time that the investment was offered by a 
clone of a genuine  investment company. The first warning appeared on the FCA 
website on 7 March  2019, after Ms Ls payment had been made.
-TSB noted that Ms L only found out that only her brother had completed some  
research (and not her daughter-in-law)  after she was aware  of the scam.  So any 
questioning by TSB wouldnt have  established  that her daughter-in-law hadnt  looked 
in to company  A.
-The investigator noted that the documentation provided to Ms L was believable and 
would have enabled her to answer any questions raised by TSB. In the 
circumstances TSB would have no reason to question the validity  of the documents.
-TSB noted Ms L found the investment opportunity herself and wasnt  cold called; 
completed her own research; thought a family member who was an investment 
Ref: DRN63518724banker had confirmed  the legitimacy  of the investment;  the scammers followed the 
same process as a genuine investment company; Ms L invested in a common 
investment opportunity and had a genuine  reason to move her money.  
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision, for largely the same reasons.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint, Ive taken in 
to account the same  considerations  as I set out in my provisional  decision so will not repeat  
them here.
TSB has said the nature and level of the transaction wouldnt trigger  any further investigation 
and wasnt so unusual  as to put it on notice of potentially fraudulent  activity,  but I disagree.  
The payment was large given Ms Ls previous transactions,  was to a new payee and was an 
international payment. Ms L hadnt  made a similar or larger  transaction in the period before, 
had never  made an international transfer  and very rarely used online banking to make  
transfers. 
I agree  with TSB that, for example, setting up a new payee is not in itself unusual. But it is 
the combination  of factors in this case that make the payment request unusual  and 
uncharacteristic. It was a large payment, to a new payee and was an international payment. 
All of these facts together made the transfer  unusual and uncharacteristic for Ms L. I also 
accept that larger payments  may follow a substantial  credit,  as was the case  here. But I dont 
consider this means TSB shouldnt  ask proportionate questions  in circumstances where the 
payment request is unusual and out of character. 
Ive considered TSBs comments  about the potential detriment to customers  if all payments 
such as Ms Ls are verified before being  released.  And I accept theres a balance  to be 
struck between identifying payments that could  potentially be fraudulent   and then 
responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption  to legitimate 
payments. But it is a question of fact and degree in each individual  case. 
Ive also thought about TSBs assertion that its fraud  detection system didnt identify the 
transactions as having high risk characteristics.  Ultimately, its a matter  for TSB and/or the 
regulator as to how it chooses to configure  its fraud detection systems given the balance  
between the duty of care towards  clients and the duty to execute instructions without undue 
delay. But on the evidence before me I consider TSB could  and should  have made  additional 
checks with Ms L before  they let the payment through. And the fact Ms L was in control of 
her security  details doesnt mean she was protected from falling victim to a scam. It simply 
means Ms L willingly made the payment believing she was making a legitimate investment. 
I think there are certain cases  where,  on the specific facts,  it would  have been  fair and 
reasonable for a bank to take action because the fraud alerts  that they are supposed to 
deploy for regulatory and legal reasons probably could and should have been triggered by 
transactions sufficiently  unusual  or uncharacteristic as to arouse reasonable grounds for 
believing that the authorised payment is in fact an attempt to misappropriate  funds. For the 
reasons Ive explained, Im persuaded that this is just such  a case. In short, it would have 
been fair and reasonable for TSB to have intervened and asked discreet questions about  the 
payment before processing it. This is in spite of the telephone call Ms L had with TSB the 
Ref: DRN63518725day before  the transaction when  she said there  was likely to be some unusual  activity. I 
consider each payment needs  to be considered  individually  and that a general comment  that 
there may be unusual  activity is not enough  to dispense with the intervention.  
TSB says that even  if it did fail in its duty to Ms L, it doesnt consider it is liable for her loss 
because it doesnt  believe its intervention  would  have made any difference  to Ms L making 
the payment.  But I dont  agree. If TSB had acted  on the triggers  outlined above,  it seems 
likely it would have contacted Ms L and asked reasonable  but probing questions  to verify she 
wasnt being scammed or at risk of financial harm in relation to the unusual and 
uncharacteristic payment shed requested. 
The transfer Ms L made was sizeable, so I think that if TSB had discussed  with Ms L the 
possibility that she was not making a payment to a genuine investment company she would 
most likely have taken TSBs  warnings  seriously and acted differently. I consider that she 
would have taken  simple steps to verify  the details, such  as checking the FCA register. 
Although the scam warning in respect  of company A wouldnt have been on the FCA website  
at the time of the transfer,  Ms L wouldnt have  found  company  A on the FCA register as it 
has never been FCA regulated. And the cloned investment company she thought she was 
taking the bond out with had a different name and contact details on the FCA register.  
If shed been given a scam warning I dont consider Ms L would  have been  content to 
release the payment when shed  made  no checks herself and did not know what checks  her 
brother had completed on her behalf. So, at the very least, I think Ms L would have delayed  
the payment while she established the nature of her brothers checks, at which point shed  
have found out he hadnt checked the FCA register or consulted  Ms Ls daughter in law. 
Theres no evidence that Ms L was put under any time pressure to make  the payment and 
she hasnt suggested  there was any rush to buy the bond. 
TSB noted  the investigator said the documentation provided to Ms L in respect of the 
investment seemed genuine. To an inexperienced investor,  it did. But there  were  a number 
of red flags in the emails  and bond pack Ms L has provided. For example, the bond pack 
says that if the customer has any queries, they should contact company A or the clone of the 
well-known provider of the bond. The telephone  number provided was not that of the well-
known provider and the company number was incorrect.  Emails from the bond provider 
didnt show any contact  details of the sender and there  were  some errors. So whilst I can 
understand why Ms L felt the documentation was genuine, there were some red flags. Action  
Fraud says anyone considering an investment opportunity should double-check all the 
details of the firm on the FCA register, including its registration number and its telephone 
number.  
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Ls complaint against TSB. I dont think it was fair 
and reasonable for TSB not to refund the amount Ms L lost through becoming the victim of a 
scam. To put her back in the position  she was in before the scam  TSB should refund Ms L 
what she lost through  the scam  and also refund interest as set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out TSB Bank plc should:
-Refund Ms L the £25,000 she lost, less any funds  recovered;
Ref: DRN63518726-Pay interest on the above at the standard rate of 8% simple from date of transfer to 
the date of settlement. If TSB deducts  tax from the interest  element of this award, it 
should provide  Ms L with an appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2021.
Jay Hadfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6351872