K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Harvey  & Thompson Limited (H&T) wrongly  lent him money he couldnt 
afford to pay back. 
background
Mr B said that the business didnt carry out proper affordability checks  and allowed him to 
continue to borrow when  he was in financial difficulty.
Mr B took out 3 instalment  loans between November 2016 and August 2017. In November 
2016 Mr B borrowed £300  which was repayable in 30 instalments of £17.97. This loan was 
effectively re-financed on 8 April 2017  when Mr B borrowed  £364  repayable  in 23 
instalments of £25.55. On the 22 August 2017 Mr B re-financed again and borrowed 
£1267.69 repayable in 63 instalments  of £41.90. Mr B wasnt  able to make  the repayments  
on the final loan which has now been  passed to a third party  collection company. Mr B has 
made an arrangement  to repay the debt.
H&T said that Mr Bs income was above  the lower limit and the loans were affordable on its 
criteria. H&T said it asked  about Mr Bs financial position and looked at his bank statements. 
Mr B didnt say that he was in difficulty or couldnt afford to repay. It lent him the money on 
the basis of reasonable and proportionate  checks taking into account what Mr B said and his 
borrowing history. It said it made  a lending decision on the information given which showed 
Mr B could afford the repayments.  
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that H&T 
didnt properly take account of the information it had. Although H&T asked Mr B about  his 
outgoings and reviewed his bank statements she said that the business  failed to engage with 
the information that Mr B was reliant  on benefits  and his bank balance was low and he was 
not properly managing his money.  Mr B repeatedly re-financed the loans which  suggested 
that he was in difficulty making the repayments. She thought that Mr Bs declared financial 
position, his bank statements and his pattern of borrowing  should  have  alerted  H&T that Mr 
B was in difficulty and couldnt afford  to repay  what he had borrowed.  H&T replied  to say in 
summary that based on the information  it had, Mr B had enough disposable income to meet  
the repayments and the loans were properly underwritten and responsibly provided.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr B could 
afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount Mr B was borrowing, the length of the agreements  and his 
borrowing history. But there was no set list of checks H&T had to do.
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
Ref: DRN63216022consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B started borrowing from H&T in November  2016. He told H&T that his monthly income  
was £1460 and this was made up of state  benefits. Mr B provided his bank statements which 
showed his income  and outgoings. H&T recorded  his outgoings  as £301. This would give 
him a disposable income of £1159 each  month.  Looking at Mr Bs bank statements the 
outgoings did not match the figures that Mr B had given and showed  that he had other  credit  
commitments and had a very low balance  which  was not consistent with the level of 
disposable income he had declared.
On the 8 April 2017  before Mr B had repaid all of the instalments due, he asked to 
essentially re-finance his loan and borrow £364.  This would suggest  that Mr B was struggling 
to make the repayments  without borrowing further  and was not making any inroads into his 
debt. This pattern  does not match  the disposable income figure  and suggested that Mr B 
couldnt afford the repayments. 
Ref: DRN63216023Mr B did make the repayments  and in August 2017 applied  to borrow  £1267.69. This was a 
significant increase  and although the instalments were repayable over a longer  a period they 
were the highest  to date. This borrowing pattern and the bank statements provided  in 
support are inconsistent with Mr B having  the level of disposable income  he had declared.
Mr B had 2 children and was in receipt  of carers allowance. His bank statements show debt 
repayments and other  outgoings that H&T did not record. Mr B was eventually  unable to 
repay the instalments and requested a return of all the direct debit repayments  he had made.
This would suggest  to me that Mr B couldnt  comfortably  afford  to repay  the loans and by 
borrowing further he was entering into a dependency.
Had H&T asked reasonable questions based on the information in the bank statements I 
think that it wouldve  seen  that Mr B was in difficulty. H&T should have been  able to see that 
Mr B was relying on short term lending to supplement his day to day living expenses.  
Although Mr B took out the loans and was able to make some  repayments I dont think  that 
this is enough  for me to say H&T acted responsibly.  Mr B wanted and needed the loans 
because of the debt he was in. H&T shouldve taken better steps  to see whether he could 
afford his loans and shouldnt  have  continued to lend given his borrowing  pattern.
Mr B has had the benefit of the money so I think it is only fair that he pays  it back  so I wont  
ask H&T to write off the outstanding balance but I agree  with the adjudicator that all interest 
or charges incurred  on all the loans should  be refunded and all information recorded on Mr 
Bs credit file about these loans should be removed.
H&T should pay interest on the amounts  paid by Mr B towards the interest and charges. It 
can use the refund to reduce the outstanding balance.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it Harvey & 
Thompson Limited should do the following:
1.refund any interest and/or charges applied to each  loan
2.add 8% simple interest per year from the time that the interest  and charges were  paid to 
the time Mr B gets it back.  
3.remove all adverse  information recorded  n Mr Bs credit file about these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Harvey & Thompson Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Harvey & Thompson Limited must  give Mr B a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Mr B has an outstanding balance on his final loan.  This debt has now been sold to a third 
party debt collection company. I dont know whether Mr B has repaid any of this debt to the 
debt collection company. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr B shouldnt repay the principal  he borrowed 
from the lender.  So it seems reasonable that if Mr B still owes  some of the capital he 
borrowed that the refund due to him should  be used  to reduce that debt. But to do so Harvey 
& Thomson  Limited  must first take the debt back into its own books and reduce  it to reflect  
Ref: DRN63216024just the capital that Mr B borrowed. If Harvey  & Thompson Limited  is unable,  or unwilling, to 
do this it must ensure  that its interest  and charges, and any other interest  and charges 
added by the debt collection company, are refunded to Mr B so he can choose whether to 
use the compensation to settle  his debt directly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6321602