K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that a loan advanced  to him by AvantCredit of UK LLC was unaffordable.
background
Mr K took out a loan for £1,700 in November 2015. The monthly payment was £73.23.
Mr K says the money  shouldntve  been  lent to him. He says at the time of the application he 
had other  loans and his credit report showed late payments  and defaults.  He says in order to 
repay the loan he had to borrow from payday lenders.
AvantCredit says it assessed the affordability of the loan before lending and based on its 
checks it thought  the loan was affordable.
Mr K was unhappy with the response  and complained to this service. He wants  a refund of 
all interest and charges.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said AvantCredit had assessed Mr Ks 
loan application  fairly and had carried out appropriate affordability checks.
Mr K disagreed. He said AvantCredit shouldve looked into his borrowing in more detail. He 
said he was using all his overdraft facility at the time he applied for the loan and his credit  file 
wouldve shown several credit searches for short  term loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Before lending money, AvantCredit  has to undertake reasonable affordability checks. These  
are to ensure a customer can repay  the proposed borrowing in a sustainable way without it 
adversely impacting their financial situation. AvantCredit need to get sufficient information  
from these checks to make an informed decision about whether to lend to the customer.
Its up to the lender to decide  what methods it uses to establish affordability  theres  no 
specific list of checks a lender must carry out before deciding to advance a loan. A key point 
is that the checks must be proportionate and must  take into account a number of different 
things including  how much money is being lent and when it is due to be repaid.
Ive looked at what happened in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint in light of whats  
expected of AvantCredit as outlined above.
Mr K applied for a loan of £1700 so I wouldnt expect AvantCredit to apply extremely 
stringent analysis when deciding  whether to authorise it  the analysis only needs  to be 
proportionate to the size of the loan.
AvantCredit has provided the information it used when considering  the loan application and I 
can see that it relied on the information Mr K had provided about his income  and 
expenditure. Mr K had a responsibility  to provide accurate information but it seems his net 
Ref: DRN67054282income was lower than he reported. AvantCredit  identified this discrepancy when it cross 
referenced the information provided  by Mr K on his application  with his bank statements. It 
amended his application to reflect the correct income.
AvantCredit dont  appear to have checked Mr Ks expenditure but I dont think  it had to. It 
used other  methods to establish  his creditworthiness and I think these were  reasonable. It 
reviewed Mr Ks credit file and considered his outstanding debt. It also looked at his 
repayment history which  showed  that he hadnt been in arrears on any accounts in the last 
12 months. AvantCredit also used an internal risk assessment  tool to decide  whether the 
lending was affordable.
Its for AvantCredit to establish that the methods it used to check affordability  were 
reasonable and proportionate and Im satisfied it has done this, taking into account the 
amount Mr K wanted  to borrow. I dont think it would be fair to ask AvantCredit to take any 
further action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6705428