K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about Barclays  Bank UK Plcs  decision to close  her account with immediate 
effect.
background
Ms M opened an account in August 2018. A few days later,  Barclays issued her with an 
immediate notice to close. The letter  they sent Ms M explained that further checks  
highlighted Ms M didnt meet their internal criteria.
Ms M complained to Barclays. Barclays upheld Ms Ms complaint. They  were  satisfied with 
their decision  to close Ms Ms account  and didnt give her any further  reasons for doing so. 
But they recognised Ms M had previously been  told to reapply and she shouldnt have. So 
they offered  her £100 compensation which Ms M didnt accept.
The investigator who looked into Ms Ms complaint  was satisfied Barclays had acted in line 
with their terms and conditions, and they didnt need to give Ms M a specific  reason for 
closing her account. But he thought a compensation amount of £125 would be more 
appropriate in the circumstances. 
Both Barclays and Ms M didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2019. In it I said;
account closure
Barclays are entitled to close an account with Ms M just as Ms M may close  her account with 
them. But before Barclays closes an account, they must do so in a way, which  complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.  I also recognise Ms M would like a detailed  
explanation as to why Barclays decided  to close her account. But Barclays  is under no 
obligation to do this.   
Ive considered the terms and conditions which apply for Ms Ms account. And in particular,  
the term Barclays says they relied on. Section 11 explains that Barclays can close a 
customers account by giving two months notice. They go on to say Barclays  can close  the 
account immediately  if they believe the customer has seriously  or persistently broken any 
terms of the agreement.
Ive considered the relevant points  which allow  Barclays to close  an account immediately 
and based on the information  Ive seen, Im not satisfied Ms M did break any terms of the 
agreement for the few days her account was open.
Therefore, unlike the investigator, Im not satisfied Barclays have acted in line with their 
terms and conditions. I consider they should  have given her two months notice.
compensation amount
Barclays recognised  they shouldnt  have  previously told Ms M to reapply for another account 
in a few months  time. So they offered her £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN65634652But because Ive found Barclays didnt act in line with the terms and conditions,  Ive 
considered whether an increase in compensation is appropriate. Ive thought  about  what 
position Ms M would  be in if Barclays gave her two months  notice.
Ms M has told us she holds an account with another bank  and she wanted an account  with 
Barclays because of the service they provide. Ive taken into account Ms Ms reasons for 
opening a Barclays  account. I dont think it would  have made much difference  to Ms M if 
they did give her two months notice. I say that because  the overall outcome would have 
been the same  and thats  because  Barclays  are entitled to choose who they do and dont 
bank with.
In summary,  I thought  Ms M would  have been left upset by not having a Barclays account   
and I thought Barclays should  have  given her more notice to close the account.  So I thought 
they should pay Ms M extra  compensation  increasing the total to £125.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it.
Ms M responded. She said:
This was the third time shed  been rejected by Barclays;
-the first time she was told to reapply again in six months once shed built up her 
credit history,
-the second time she was told her credit  score wasnt high enough despite Ms M 
showing them her credit  report  was clean,
-the third time she was approved but then Barclays closed the account.
Ms M would like an explanation why Barclays do not want  her as a customer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive thought about the additional points  Ms M has raised  and I appreciate  she wants a 
specific reason why Barclays have declined her as a customer  twice  and subsequently 
closed her account when they did accept it. 
I explained in my provisional decision  Barclays are entitled to close  an account with Ms M 
just as Ms M may close her account  with them. Barclays is under no obligation  to provide 
Ms M with a reason as to why they dont  want to bank with her. So while I appreciate her 
strength of feeling  about this, I cant reasonably ask Barclays  to give her a reason. What is 
important, is when they closed her account, they did so in a way which  was in line with the 
terms and conditions. I dont think they did  I think they should have given her two months 
notice because Im not satisfied Ms M broke the terms of the account which would allow  
Barclays to close it immediately.
Therefore, to recognise the distress  and inconvenience Barclays  has caused to Ms M, I 
consider they should pay her a total of £125  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint against Barclays  Bank UK Plc.
Ref: DRN65634653I require Barclays Bank  UK Plc to pay Ms M a total of £125  compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6563465