K822xcomplaint
This complaint has been brought by Mr O1 on behalf of his late fathers estate.  Mr O1 has 
complained about the amount that his father paid on his home insurance policy underwritten 
by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
background 
In 1990 Mr O took out a mortgage  with Business  A and at the same time bought a home 
insurance policy. The insurance was branded as a Business A policy, but although 
Business A sold and administered the policy, it didnt actually underwrite the policy.  That was 
done by a business that later became Aviva. It was that business that set the price Mr O had 
to pay, so Aviva is responsible for this complaint. 
Since 1990 Business A has been taken over by another business, Business B. Mr O1 has 
made a number of complaints about  how Business  B administered  his fathers policy  and 
how it was paid for. For the avoidance  of doubt, our service has set up a separate complaint 
against Business  B to look into those concerns. This decision is solely about the price of the 
insurance, something that was set by Aviva. 
When Mr O took out the policy in 1990  it cost £132 for the year. This price went up and down 
over the years and by 2015 it had reached £433.68. After the insurance had renewed in 
2015, Business  B wrote out to its customers saying that this policy was being  withdrawn  
from the market and the following year Mr O would have  to take out a different type of policy.
Mr O1 looked into Mr Os financial affairs and thought hed been  overcharged  for this 
insurance policy. He noted that the cost had been  going up over the years  even  though Mr O 
hadnt made a claim and when they looked into different policies in 2015, they found a 
cheaper one, also offered  by Business B. Mr O1 said his father was elderly and was 
concerned that Aviva  had taken advantage of this.
After the complaint was brought to our service, Aviva made an offer to settle it. One of our 
investigators thought  this offer was fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr O1 didnt think the offer was sufficient, so asked  for the complaint to be considered again 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most home insurance policies are able to renew  each year without  the need for a consumer 
to talk to the insurer.  That means  theres  a low risk that someone  might forget to renew an 
insurance policy and end up uninsured. But theres also a risk that the price of the policy 
might go up without a consumer realising. In Mr Os case, I cant see he contacted  Aviva  or 
Business B over the years  to question what he was charged, so I need to consider whether 
the price increases were fair.
Its possible an insurer could take advantage  of a consumer if they didnt ask about  price 
increases or engage at renewal, and just increased the policy  cost because of that. If I 
Ref: DRN62421352thought a business only raised the price over time because a consumer wasnt  engaging, its 
likely Id say that wasnt  fair. But I dont  think  that happened to Mr O.
When Mr O took out the policy, the price he paid was based on the value of his home and 
what it was likely to cost to rebuild it. But that changed over the years and the policy was 
adjusted to reflect the increased,  and decreased,  levels  of cover needed. That was done by 
making the policy index linked, which meant the amount covered went up and down 
alongside an index  that tracked  the cost of rebuilding houses. If the change in policy price 
was driven by the change in the amount  insured, Id say that was fair and that Aviva wouldnt 
have taken advantage of Mr O renewing without engagement as there  would be a legitimate 
reason for the price  changes.
Aviva has looked at what it charged for the insurance and compared  that to how the index 
went up and down. Having done so, it realised  there  were times when Mr Os price 
increased at a rate higher than the rate of change of the index. Aviva has offered to refund 
the extra Mr O paid over what he would have paid if the price only went up at the same rate 
as the index  this comes to £159.18. It has also offered to add simple interest to this to 
compensate Mr Os estate for the time Mr O was out of pocket  this is at the rate of 8% per 
year. And Aviva has offered to add £100  to this for any distress caused  to Mr O.
This offer puts Mr Os estate in the position  it would  be in if the premium changed at the 
same rate as the rebuild  cost. Having looked  at how Mr Os policy  was supposed to operate, 
I think this offer is fair. 
I understand that Mr O1 feels the policy was overpriced as he was able to find alternative 
cover for less. But I dont  think that means Mr O was overcharged or Aviva  priced  his policy  
unfairly.
Many new policies come with large initial discounts, which insurers aim to recoup over the 
subsequent years. And consumers are able to choose differing levels of cover, for example 
accidental damage  cover in home and contents insurance or choosing to increase or reduce 
levels of excess,  which  all affect the price  of a policy. Additionally, different insurers work out 
risks differently and theres no set price  at which an insurer  has to offer insurance. So just 
because Mr O could have  got alternative cover  for less, it doesnt mean his older policy  was 
priced unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Aviva Insurance Limiteds offer is fair.
I direct  it update the offer of compensation and pay it to Mr Os estate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O1, on behalf 
of the later Mr Os estate, to accept  or reject  my decision before 24 July 2020.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6242135