K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Aviva Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with their claim  for a new boiler under a home emergency policy.  They  want  
compensation to cover  the actual costs  of a new boiler and for being left without hot water or 
heating for some time.
background
Mr and Mrs G had a home emergency  policy with Aviva, which  covered sudden  unexpected 
events affecting  their plumbing  and heating (amongst other items). Their boiler was over 
seven years old and failed in September 2018.  Mr and Mrs G agreed to get a new boiler 
through Aviva. Under the terms and conditions of the policy, they were entitled  to a new 
boiler from Aviva, but would have to pay for installation and any extras  required.
In October  2018, Mr and Mrs G arranged for the new boiler to be installed, but the engineers  
from Aviva  said that there was an issue and left. About two weeks later,  someone  sent by 
Aviva said the boiler would have to be installed in a new location  and scaffolding  would be 
required; Mr and Mrs G declined as they were concerned about the placement of the new 
flue and the extra cost. Aviva told Mr and Mrs G that they could have the work done 
themselves; Mr and Mrs G also said that it delayed returned their deposit for the new boiler.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to Aviva. It apologised for the need  to issue another quote due to 
change of circumstances. Aviva offered compensation of £120  for inconvenience caused 
and £386 towards  the cost of a new boiler. It also said that it would refund the deposit  paid.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to us and said that the cost of a new boiler privately  was much 
more than the amount offered by Aviva. They also said that they were left without hot water  
or heating  for about seven weeks and they were retired. Aviva told this service that it wasnt 
possible to fit the boiler  in the original location and it gave Mr and Mrs G a choice of 
alternative locations, and waited for them to decide.  When the choice was made, Aviva said 
it was then that the surveyor explained about  the need to put the flue through  the roof.
The investigators view was that Aviva wasnt at fault. He thought that it wasnt responsible 
for the delay  in replacing the boiler, and said Mr and Mrs G spent some  time debating the 
options. The investigator also noted that Mr and Mrs G refused the offer of temporary 
heaters, but said if Mr and Mrs G did buy their own heaters,  they should provide evidence.  
He didnt think more  than £120  compensation should be paid for this issue.  
The investigator also said that the terms and conditions  of the policy  had been followed by 
Aviva; it only offered  a free new boiler  if fitted by its team and the costs of installation  were to 
be paid by the consumer. He noted that the boiler wouldve cost Aviva £386, which was why 
it was fair and reasonable to offer that sum to Mr and Mrs G as a gesture  of goodwill; it 
shouldnt have to pay out more to Mr and Mrs G than it wouldve paid for a boiler. The 
investigator also said Aviva had offered to pay interest on the refunded deposit if evidence  of 
loss was provided.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed.  They said that the investigator  hadnt  understood the complaint  
and it would cost them more than £386 to get the same boiler. Mr and Mrs G also said that 
their concerns werent about  cost,  but safety, and Aviva shouldnt  have cancelled the 
installation. 
Ref: DRN61383502The investigator said that he had understood the complaint. While he accepted it would cost 
Mr and Mrs G more to get the work done, it was relevant to note Avivas  costs were  lower  
and it wouldnt pay the market price under the policy. The investigator pointed out that the 
contact notes with Aviva showed  Mr and Mrs G were very concerned about the increased 
costs and said they couldnt afford them, and were  told about other places were the boiler  
could be fitted.  He said that there wasnt any evidence Aviva cancelled  the installation  
without Mr and Mrs Gs agreement, but the evidence did show that Mr and Mrs G didnt want 
to go ahead due to cost. Aviva  said that it had carried out two surveys and given options, 
which was why it refused  to do another survey.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will focus  on the core of this complaint, 
which is about the boiler and Avivas failure to install one. That said,  I dont think  the delay in 
refunding the deposit was so significant  that compensation  is fair and reasonable, 
particularly as Aviva has offered to pay any lost interest, subject to evidence from 
Mr and Mrs G. It does take time to refund money.
Mr and Mrs G argue  that the installation to which they originally agreed was cancelled  
without their agreement  or consent. This isnt accurate. What happened was that it wasnt 
possible to install the boiler as originally  planned;  this was known to Mr and Mrs G and they 
agreed to Avivas surveyor looking for alternatives. The evidence (including notes made at 
the time,  so I can place  weight on those notes) shows that Mr and Mrs G were given two 
alternative options. Neither were particularly attractive to them.
But the alternatives were  put forward in a timely way to Mr and Mrs G, and most of the time 
they were without hot water and heating (in relation to this issue)  was because Mr and Mrs G 
were deciding what to do and then raising  concerns about the costs with Aviva. I can see 
that Aviva  noted Mr and Mrs G were a priority  due to their age and offered them  temporary 
heaters, which  was rejected. If Mr and Mrs G provide evidence  showing they bought their 
own heaters, we can consider this, but currently no such evidence  has been provided.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, and being without hot water and 
heating is a serious matter. But I dont think Aviva  is entirely responsible,  and the evidence 
shows that it did try to resolve  matters. I think £120 compensation is fair and reasonable, 
particularly as Mr and Mrs G have said that they were able to access hot water with the 
assistance of others and rejected the offer of temporary heaters.
This leaves  the issue of the boiler. Aviva as a gesture of goodwill offered the amount that the 
boiler would  cost it; under the terms and conditions of the policy,  it wasnt  required to pay 
anything if Mr and Mrs G had the work  done  privately or refused  to let Aviva  do the work 
(which is what  happened).  Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied that Aviva  acted 
fairly and reasonably in offering alternatives  to Mr and Mrs G when it became clear the boiler 
had to be re-sited; it sent surveyors and engineers and discussed the options. Ultimately,  
Mr and Mrs G refused  to proceed and the evidence suggests this was largely due to cost  
they said that they couldnt afford to pay more. Even the third option wouldve cost more  than 
the original quote  from the evidence available to me.
Ref: DRN61383503While I appreciate Mr and Mrs G cant get a boiler at the same  cost as Aviva  can, I think  its 
fair and reasonable that Aviva hasnt relied  upon the legal terms and conditions of the policy 
and offered the amount  that it wouldve spent on a new boiler to Mr and Mrs G as a gesture 
of goodwill.  This has taken into account the fact that Mr and Mrs G werent  happy  with the 
options offered  for Aviva to do the work, and the initial inability to fit the boiler as first 
planned. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I leave it up to Mr and Mrs G 
whether to accept  the offer of £506 from Aviva Insurance Limited if it hasnt already been 
paid. Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs G to accept  or reject my decision before  17 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6138350