K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc charged her for a currency  exchange  when she 
wanted to transfer  money to another sterling  account overseas.
background
Ms A had an account with HSBC. In January  2019 she sent £3000  to an account overseas. 
HSBC charged her £4 for the transfer. But she says she was also charged £108.34 for a 
currency exchange loss - even though the recipient  bank was also a sterling account. So 
Ms A would  like a refund of the charges.
HSBC said the payment  had been input twice. But there werent enough funds to cover the 
second payment.  So it had to cancel and reverse the deal. And that resulted  in the lost of 
£108.34.
HSBC said its online banking advises customers  that a payment may not leave the account  
immediately and any loss or gain would  be passed  on to the customer. Because  the second 
payment failed it had to sell the currency deal and a loss resulted.
Ms A wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response. So she contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She looked  at system evidence from the bank which 
showed two payments had been attempted. The first one had succeeded. But the second  
payment had been attempted  from sterling  into another  currency. And when  the second 
payment failed it created a loss on the currency deal. So she didnt think  HSBC had done 
anything wrong. Itd acted  within the terms and conditions of the account.
Ms A didnt agree. She was charged  for a transfer  that didnt take place. So shes asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this must  be for Ms A. Shes been charged for something  
she didnt want.  So Ive looked  carefully at whats happened to see if HSBC has done 
anything wrong.
The bank has provided evidence from its system  to show that two transfers  were  attempted  
on 4 January 2019. The first payment request was a transfer of £3000.00 to a sterling 
account.
The second  payment was made on the same day about two hours  later. But it was for a 
transfer of £3005.00 into another currency. This payment failed as there werent enough  
funds left in the account after the first payment  had taken  place.
When HSBC attempted  the second  payment it booked the foreign currency  in anticipation  of 
the transfer completing. But there  wasnt enough money left in Ms As account. So it had to 
cancel the transfer.  And that meant selling the foreign currency  itd bought. Unfortunately  this 
resulted in a loss of £108.34.
Ref: DRN62288002I know Ms A wanted to transfer the money  from one sterling account to another.  And thats  
what happened with the first transfer.  But a second  transfer was requested  from sterling to a 
different currency. And thats were the loss occurred. 
I dont know why a second transfer was attempted. But Ive not seen  anything  to suggest  
HSBC has done  anything wrong  when  it tried to process the request. As the second  transfer  
involved a change of currency  it unfortunately resulted in a foreign  exchange  loss when the 
transfer was cancelled. 
The terms and conditions  of Ms As account  say that if a payment fails for any reason it will 
reverse it at the current  exchange rate. And it the rate has changed the amount  returned will 
be different to the amount  taken from the account.
I know Ms A will be disappointed with this outcome. And I appreciate  that shes upset shes  
been charged for a currency loss when she wanted  to make the transfer in the same 
currency.
But based  on everything Ive seen I cant really  say HSBC has done anything  wrong.  The 
first payment  did go through correctly  as Ms A intended. But a second transfer was then 
requested which involved  a currency exchange. And when  that failed it caused the loss Ms A 
has complained  about.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6228800