K821x#15complaint
Mrs R is complaining about The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited (trading as 
Scottish Provident)  because it didnt pay a claim on her critical illness  insurance policy.
background 
Mrs R had a life and critical illness insurance policy that ended  on 8 May 2015. Sadly, she 
was diagnosed with cancer  in November 2016. She claimed on her policy,  saying her illness 
was present before it ended.
I originally felt there wasnt enough evidence to show  Mrs Rs illness was present and that it 
met the policy definition  of cancer before her policy ended.  I explained the reasons for that 
view in a provisional  decision dated  10 August 2018.  We then received further submissions, 
principally from Mrs Rs consultant haematologist, that changed my view.  I explained the 
reasons why I now felt the claim should  be paid in a letter to Scottish Provident dated  5 
December 2018,  giving  it a chance  to comment on those most recent submissions. Extracts 
from both are attached.
Scottish Provident didnt  accept my revised  findings  and made the following key points:
Its being asked  to retrospectively apply  a suggestion that a claimable condition was 
present during the term of the plan when Mrs R displayed no symptoms  and there  
was nothing else to show she had a critical illness  during the term of the policy.  And 
she then went on to enjoy  excellent health for some  time after it expired.
Its concerned a decision on the basis  Ive proposed could have serious  wider  
consequences for the insurance industry. Its plans are competitively priced based on 
incidence rates during the life of a policy. If the outcome of this complaint were 
applied in the wider context, it will have an impact  on the cost of critical illness cover 
and may make it unaffordable  for some  who need it most. 
If this logic was reversed and applied to a claim made in the first week  of cover,  it 
would be turning the claim down as the illness was obviously present before the plan 
went into force.
During my telephone  conversation with Dr S, he said he can say with almost  surety 
that Mrs Rs illness would have  been diagnosed at the time if her GP had followed up 
on her blood test results in May 2015.  So theres no certainty  here and it wouldnt 
accept an almost  certain diagnosis for any other claim.
The policy was set up for the term Mrs R requested  at the outset.  It doesnt  appear 
she took replacement  cover,  which  suggests she only needed it until the policy 
expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Scottish Providents response to my revised assessment, my conclusions havent  changed.
Ref: DRN60478772Theres no dispute that once Mrs Rs cancer  was diagnosed she would have had a valid 
claim if the policy was still in force. Scottish Provident confirmed it accepted this point in its 
email dated 14 May 2018.
I note Scottish Providents reluctance to pay a claim for an illness  that wasnt  diagnosed until 
after the policy expired, particularly when  no symptoms  had been  observed beforehand. I 
cant comment on whether Mrs R enjoyed excellent  health after May 2015 and Im sure 
shed have her own views  on that. But as Ive said previously, Ive not found anything  in the 
policy terms that I think says evidence of symptoms or diagnosis  is required during the policy  
term and Scottish Provident hasnt  pointed to anything stating this either. With that in mind, I 
think its reasonable to conclude  a claim is payable if the evidence indicates Mrs Rs illness 
was present during the term of the policy, even if it hadnt been diagnosed.
I note Scottish Provident prices its plans competitively and thats a decision its entitled to 
make. But I dont think that somehow  justifies declining valid claims. And I dont share  its 
concerns about  the potential consequences of this decision. Its not intended  to set a 
precedent. Its merely  a reflection of what I think is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this case.  And some of those circumstances  are unusual and wouldnt 
necessarily apply to many  other cases we see. For example, in respect of the particular type 
of cancer Mrs R had, Dr S explained  in his letter of 29 August 2018 that:
Many haematological malignancies, unlike solid tumours, are asymptomatic  at 
presentation. Indeed there  are some in which immediate treatment is not necessary 
but that doesnt detract from the fact that they are malignant conditions. Essential 
thrombocythaemia rarely leads to overt symptoms and the treatment is entirely 
directed towards  the prevention of arterial and venous thrombosis which if untreated  
can lead to death of the patient  within two to three  years. Such an event often occurs 
suddenly and 24 hours prior to the event  the patient  can be entirely  asymptomatic.
So it appears the nature of Mrs Rs cancer  is different  to other  types and this partly  explains 
why it wasnt diagnosed until later on. Dr S has also been clear that he believes Mrs Rs GP 
made an error by not referring her for further  investigation following her blood tests in 2015. 
This is also not something Id expect the relevant consultant to say in most  cases we see.
Im slightly  puzzled by Scottish  Providents point about reversing the logic of this decision as 
the circumstances when a policy is arranged are very different. Insurers  have the opportunity  
to make enquiries about a consumers health,  including obtaining their full medical  records 
and requiring them to undergo assessments, before deciding whether to offer cover in the 
first place. If it chooses not to make full enquiries at that stage, an insurer takes the risk of 
covering somebody  whos already ill and thats  a legitimate business decision.  As Scottish  
Provident is also aware, the law and industry guidance does allow  insurers  to take action 
where theres evidence  the consumer misrepresented their health  at application stage.
Very few things, including the assessment of critical illness insurance claims, are absolutely  
certain. But when  I consider his submissions in their entirety, I think  Dr S has been 
consistently as confident  as he can reasonably  be that Mrs Rs condition  was present before 
her policy expired. In his letter  of 13 April 2018,  he said:
[Mrs R] had blood tests  done  prior to that and had a blood count done on 29/05/15  
which showed her platelet count to be 1074,  this was repeated on 04/06/15 and was 
1000 and then again in August 2015 when it was 1031.
Ref: DRN60478773He went on to say the normal platelet  count is about 400. And in his letter  of 24 September 
2018, Dr S explained that:
I can confirm that the condition  would  have been present before May [2015] . . . . For 
a platelet count to go from 400 to 1,000 in a malignant condition like Mrs Rs can 
take up to a year and sometimes  more to do that.
Its presumably with these  points  in mind that Dr S concluded in his letter of 13 April 2018 
that:
It is thus to clear to me that in May 2015  the condition  (essential thrombocythaemia) 
was not in any pre-leukaemic  or precancerous stage but was in its malignant form 
but unfortunately not picked up.
Dr S has also been clear, particularly during my telephone conversation  with him, that the 
policy definition of cancer was satisfied at that time and that exclusions for pre-malignant  or 
non-invasive cancers wouldnt  have applied.
Dr S may have used the word almost when I spoke to him, but I interpret that more as a 
figure of speech  than anything that should  cast doubt on the validity of what he said.  I think  
his evidence has to be considered in its entirety and I dont think it would be appropriate  to 
decide Mrs Rs claim should be declined based  solely on his use of a single word during a 
telephone conversation.  Particularly as hes provided a detailed explanation  of why he thinks  
cancer was present and the exclusions in the policy definition wouldnt have applied.
Finally, I note Scottish Provident is questioning  whether  Mrs R needed cover after her policy 
expired but Im not sure why that would  be relevant.  Its another thing Im sure Mrs R would 
have her own thoughts  on as well. Either way, when  it offered the policy,  Scottish Provident 
agreed to cover her if an insurable event occurred during the policy  term and took the 
appropriate premiums  from her. Since  Ive concluded an insurable event did take place, it 
follows that Scottish Provident should  pay out.
I agree  the delay  between the end of the policy and diagnosis  is unfortunate, for both parties,  
although Dr S has been clear Mrs R wasnt at fault for that delay. My point is that in the 
absence of anything  in the policy terms requiring diagnosis before it expired, I dont think the 
delay entitles Scottish Provident  to decline a claim when the weight of the medical evidence 
shows an insurable event  occurred during the policy term.
putting things right
To put things right, I think Scottish Provident should pay the critical illness benefit on the 
policy immediately before it ended in full. Im not awarding interest on this amount as the 
evidence most recently supplied by Dr S, and on which Im now relying, wasnt available 
when the claim was initially considered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mrs R accepts my decision, The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society  Limited must pay 
her the compensation set out above.  If it doesnt  pay this amount within  28 days  of being  told 
Mrs R has accepted my final decision,  to compensate her for the delay  it should  add simple 
Ref: DRN60478774interest to this amount at the rate of 8% per year from the date of the final decision to the 
date it pays out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60478775extract from my revised assessment  sent to Scottish Provident on 5 December 2018
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 10 August 2018.  Since  then, weve  had further 
communication with Mrs Rs consultant, Dr S, that Ive attached. This includes:
Dr Ss letter of 29 August;
Dr Ss letter of 24 September;
our letter  to Dr S dated 7 November;
Dr Ss response dated 16 November;
our letter  to Dr S dated 28 November; and
a recording of my recent telephone conversation  with Dr S after he said hed prefer to discuss 
the case  in person.
There doesnt  seem to be any dispute that Mrs Rs condition is covered  by the policy terms.  Ive also 
not seen anything in those terms to say diagnosis needed to be made before the policy ended on 8 
May 2015 for a claim to be payable. My reason for not upholding the complaint was because I didnt 
think there was enough  medical evidence to show her cancer  was present and that it would have met 
the policy  definition before  the policy ended.
Reviewing the case again in light of the most recent submissions, I think  Dr S has now provided 
compelling evidence Mrs Rs cancer was present before  the policy ended. Most  notably, his letter of 
24 September explains blood results from the end of May 2015 indicate  the problem had been 
present for some  time and preceded the policy end date.
I think  Dr S has also provided  compelling evidence  and explanation to show the cancer would have 
been shown to meet the policy definition before the policy  ended. This is most  clearly explained  
during our recent telephone conversation in which he confirms  the type of cancer Mrs R had doesnt  
have a pre-cancerous state and wouldnt have been caught by the exclusion covering pre-malignant 
or non-invasive cancers.
Dr S has also been clear  that Mrs Rs GP made an error by not referring her following  the blood  tests 
in May 2015  and that if he had done, the problem would  have been picked up. If that had happened, 
Ive no reason to think Mrs R wouldnt have claimed at this stage or that a claim wouldnt  have been 
payable. To some extent, I do understand Royal Londons reluctance to pay out when the illness was 
diagnosed so long after the policy ended. But I dont think its fair to penalise Mrs R for an error  that 
wasnt her fault when  the medical evidence  now available shows she had a payable claim  while her 
policy was still in force.
Subject to any further evidence  or submissions  from Royal London, my current view is that the most 
recent submissions from Dr S show the claim  should be paid. To put things right, I think Royal  London 
should pay the critical  illness  benefit on the policy  immediately before it ended  in full. I believe this is 
less than the £150,000 limit Im allowed to award, but if thats not the case Id be grateful if Royal  
London could confirm that at this stage. 
I dont currently propose to award interest is added to this amount as the evidence most recently 
supplied by Dr S, and on which Im now relying, wasnt available when  the claim  was initially 
considered.
Royal London  should now let me know if it has any further  comments or evidence it wants me to 
consider, ideally by 18 December 2018 at the latest. If it has no further comments or doesnt reply  by 
this date, its likely Ill issue a final decision on the case making the above award.
Ref: DRN60478776extract from my provisional decision dated 10 August 2018
my provisional findings
While the policy provided cover for cancer, it didnt cover every type of cancer  Mrs R could have had. 
To conclude  her claim is payable, Id need to be satisfied  the available  medical evidence  showed the 
following definition of cancer set out in the policy conditions was met before it ended  on 8 May 2015:
Any malignant  tumour  characterised  by the uncontrolled growth and spread of malignant cells 
and invasion of tissue. The term cancer includes leukaemia and Hodgkins  disease but the 
following are excluded:
All tumours which are histologically described  as pre-malignant, as non-invasive or as 
cancer in situ;
All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason score 
greater than 6 or having progressed to at least TNM  classification T2N0M0.
Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma.
Although Mrs Rs diagnosis wasnt made until much later, the evidence shows  she was unwell 
towards the end of May 2015 and that she visited her GP and had blood tests  on 29th of that month.  
Further tests were taken in June and August 2015, but no further action was taken at the time. Mrs R 
believes her cancer was present at that time but that it went undiagnosed. This view is supported by 
her consultant haematologist, who said in a letter  of 13 April 2018 that:
Ms R has essential thrombocythaemia  which is a myeloproliferative  neoplasm and was 
officially diagnosed in November 2016 when she was referred to me. However as you point 
out she had blood tests done prior to that and had a blood count done  on 29/05/15 which  
showed her platelet count to be 1074, this was repeated on 04/06/15 and was 1000 and then 
again in August 2015  when  it was 1031. It is thus to clear  to me that in May 2015 the 
condition (essential  thrombocythaemia) was not in any pre-leukaemic or precancerous stage  
but was in its malignant form but unfortunately not picked  up. The normal platelet count  is 
about 400 and as you can see her platelet count in 2015 on the blood tests  that I have stated 
was almost 2.5 times that and when a patient who is diagnosed to have a condition 18 
months later with the definitive tests  done  but has the normality seen in May 2015. It is 
obvious that that condition existed in May 2015 but was not picked up
This is important evidence that Ive taken into account.  But I think  its also relevant to note that aside 
from further blood tests in June and August 2015, no further  action was taken  at the time.  This really 
doesnt support the view that Mrs R had a serious  illness  at that time. But even if it is accepted that 
something more  serious was going on and was overlooked at the end of May 2015, this is still some 
time after the policy ended on 8 May. As things  stand, Ive not seen  any clear evidence Mrs R was 
unwell before  that date or that similar results would  have been obtained if blood  tests had been done 
earlier.
Its also important to consider that the policy didnt cover  all forms of cancer  and the definition was 
worded to exclude types of cancer that are more readily treatable.  Without further investigation 
leading to clear evidence of exactly what was going on in May 2015,  I dont think I could reasonably 
say the policy definition was fully satisfied at that time.
I appreciate my decision isnt what Mrs R was hoping  for and will come as a disappointment. But on 
balance, I dont  think  the available  medical  evidence  is enough to show she had an illness  that met 
the policy  definition of cancer before the policy ended.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN6047877