K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained  about their previous home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) as 
they felt it had treated them badly when handling their subsidence  claim made in 2011  and 
not settled until 2016. They said they had costs and losses totalling over £150,000.
 
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  on this complaint. In that document  I set out a 
full and detailed  background.  I havent reproduced  that here but it is attached.
In brief;  Mr and Mrs G made a claim to UKI in 2011  as they had found  cracks  in their 
propertys extension. UKI accepted the claim and began investigating it. Mr G told UKI he 
thought the house  was uninhabitable.  UKI never accepted that was the case  and from the 
early part of 2012 onwards discussions between the parties began  to focus on resolving  the 
subsidence damage.
Following some investigations and a lot of discussions between the parties, in late 2014 UKI 
agreed that the extension could be re-built to the same foot print as before. The claim then 
moved on to discuss what a suitable  settlement  for that would be. In August 2016,  following 
a proposal put forwards by Mr and Mrs G, £68,648 was paid by UKI to settle the damage 
claim. Mr and Mrs G though said they still had an outstanding claim for accommodation 
costs incurred to date. UKI investigated  this but wasnt minded to pay anything to 
Mr and Mrs G in this respect. 
When Mr and Mrs G complained to us they set out what  they felt UKI was liable for. This 
was:
£91,942 for value  lost on their home  when  they sold it.
£2,578.86  for contents damaged by mould.
£421.65 for additional repairs  theyd  had to undertake to the main house.
£2,540 for replacement external  doors.
£55,000 for accommodation costs.
Initially, UKI felt we couldnt  consider  the large majority of this complaint  it thought  its 
solicitor had issued  final response letters on its behalf in 2016. However, the letters issued 
by the solicitor were  not final response  letters. Therefore, when the complaint was passed to 
me, it fell to me to review  it in far more  detail than we had to that point. As mentioned above,  
I issued a provisional decision to share my understanding of the claim and complaint, along 
with my findings, with both parties.  I said I didnt intend to make  UKI pay anything  more to 
Mr and Mrs G.
UKI said it had no comment to make. Mr and Mrs G responded to my provisional decision, 
but also asked  for time to gather more evidence.  They also asked to see evidence Id relied 
upon from UKI in my decision. This was provided.  Mr and Mrs G didnt make any further  
response. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN60266782I said provisionally:
what I cant  consider
Whilst UKI did not issue a final response to Mr and Mrs G in 2016 regarding  its handling  of 
the clam  to that point, it did issue final responses  in 2012. The responses issued in July and 
November 2012  dealt specifically with concerns about how the claim had been handled to 
date, including  Mr and Mrs Gs concerns about key claim decision that had been made. If 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with those findings they could  have complained to us within  six 
months. They did not. There were no exceptional  circumstances  which  prevented 
Mr and Mrs G from complaining to us during that time.  They first complained  to us in 2018. 
UKI hasnt  consented  to us considering claim handling issues,  covered  by a final response, 
which were made out of time. Therefore, I cant consider  any claim handling concerns 
Mr and Mrs G have which pre-date 7 November 2012.
what I can consider
UKIs final response issued in January  2012  did detail its position on the alternative  
accommodation claim at that time. There was no further final response that covered this 
issue until March 2018, just two months before Mr and Mrs G complained to this service. 
When asked about the 2012  final response  UKI consented to this service considering the 
alternative accommodation issue in its entirety,  regardless of the fact its 2012 final response 
had confirmed it was not accepting a claim for accommodation, and Mr and Mrs G had not 
complained about it declining  their accommodation  claim  for a further six years.
Once consent is given to this service, it cant be revoked. I will consider the complaint about 
the accommodation claim in its entirety,  taking into account the content of the 2012  final 
response and the activity  which led up to that.
claim handling post 7 November  2012
Ive set out a detailed  background above.  From that I think its fair to say that, at times UKI 
did not handled this claim well. It couldve moved  things on quicker  at times and its clear 
from its documents that, internally,  UKI was critical of some of things its subsidence  team 
did. 
But from what Ive seen  I think its also fair to say that Mr and Mrs G didnt always  cooperate  
fully with UKI and sometimes  caused  delays. For example following UKIs November 2012 
response which confirmed  there  were  three  options  for progressing the claim, Mr and Mrs G 
didnt contact UKI until September 2013. 
Furthermore, when in September/October 2013,  UKIs subsidence  team put forward  a 
reasonable option for progressing the claim (appoint an independent engineer) to 
Mr and Mrs G, rather  than agreeing to that proposal,  Mr and Mrs G sought to appoint  their 
own engineer.  This meant he wasnt independent  and his opinion, as an agent  acting  for 
Mr and Mrs G, was never likely to move the claim beyond the point it was already at  each 
side having their own opinion of what was needed to be done. I think its likely that, had the 
subsidence teams  proposal  been  followed by Mr and Mrs G, UKI would have agreed to the 
findings and the claim  would  have  moved  on, meaning any later failures and delays UKI 
caused by at times not always handling things well, along with any upset that resulted for 
Mr and Mrs G, would have been avoided.  
Ref: DRN60266783On this occasion, in light of everything  Ive seen,  I dont  think it would be appropriate  to make 
UKI pay compensation to Mr and Mrs G. In my view,  any award here would be unfair and 
unreasonable.
claim for replacement and repair to main  property (including external doors) and its contents
In 2016 Mr and Mrs G told UKI theyd settle for repair and deal with the accommodation  
separately. They did not, at that time, suggest to UKI that they would also be looking to it to 
settle damage to the property. Im also mindful that this service will usually not seek  to go 
behind a settlement  which  has been freely agreed  by both sides to be full and final. 
However, in the event  that Mr and Mrs G may argue  that the full and final settlement 
agreement did not extend in any way to this other damage they are now claiming for, Ive 
also noted that at no time after the settlement in August  2016  but before the 
repair/replacement was completed or the property was sold in February  2017,  did they tell 
UKI about this. As such they did not give UKI a chance to consider the matter and 
investigate the damage.  The work  has been done,  the items have been replaced  and the 
property has been sold  UKIs ability  to investigate its liability  for the claimed for losses has, 
in my view,  been prejudiced by Mr and Mrs Gs actions.
In either  case,  Im not persuaded  it would  be fair now for me to direct UKI to consider the 
losses reportedly incurred  in this respect with a view to making settlement for them.
claim for loss of value
Mr and Mrs G say that the property was sold at a loss in order for them  to obtain a quick 
sale. Im not persuaded that loss is related to any failure of UKI. UKI had settled the damage 
claim at a value requested by Mr and Mrs G several  months before the property was sold.  
Whilst there was an outstanding dispute regarding alternative accommodation  costs,  
Mr and Mrs G have told UKI that they hadnt  paid rent, theyd only have to once  UKI settled  
the accommodation claim. Therefore  they did not have extra  costs  associated with having  to 
pay for two homes. So even if I conclude that UKI had some  liability for accommodation 
costs, I cant see that its failure to pay them earlier  caused Mr and Mrs G such  a financial 
loss as they had no choice but to settle  for a quick sale of their home thus incurring a loss.
Im also mindful though  that Mr and Mrs G havent provided any proof  that their home was 
sold below  value. I dont  doubt it was sold below  the price they were asking for and their 
estate agent presumably  had agreed  to sell it for. But that alone  doesnt evidence that the 
property was sold below the market value  that could reasonably have been expected to be 
achieved for it.
alternative accommodation
Whilst UKIs solicitor stated that Mr and Mrs G had put their accommodation claim in at 
£45,000, they told us they were claiming £55,000. UKI says nothing  is due. The relevant 
periods for the claim were  1 July 2011   1 July 2014  and 1 August 2014  4 August 2016.
UKIs policy, as is common to most property insurance policies, offers cover for the cost of 
living elsewhere where the home  cannot be lived in. Whilst Mr and Mrs G have asked for 
costs dating back  to June 2011,  during the life of the claim they didnt always  represent to 
UKI that they,  both, werent living  in the property. UKIs file doesnt  suggest any habitability  
concerns were seen  by its representatives  in 2011/early  2012  and during its later detailed 
Ref: DRN60266784review of the accommodation claim UKI was adamant that there was no evidence that the 
house had been uninhabitable.
Whilst the arguments from both sides are long and detailed (summarised in the full 
background), I dont  think its worthwhile for me to effectively carry out a marking  exercise of 
those arguments  to try and determine  who is most likely right or wrong in respect of each 
point. I dont think that will ultimately  achieve what I need to know  is it most likely that 
Mr and Mrs G moved out of their home  because of subsidence  damage. If I think  it is, then 
there are other things Ill need to consider.  But if I dont then their complaint, that UKI acted 
unfairly in declining their accommodation claim,  fails at that first hurdle. With regret  for any 
upset this causes  Mr and Mrs G, my view is that their complaint fails.
Mr Gs hand-written letter and report dated June 2011 describes the home as being  in a poor 
state of repair  due to damage caused  by subsidence.  The letter was addressed to the 
building society which brands the product UKI underwrites  and the report was also written 
addressing the building society. UKI say neither it nor the building society have any record of 
contact at that time. 
Despite the quite dire circumstances described in those documents I find it telling that these 
details are not reflected or referred to by Mrs G in her calls with UKI in October, November 
and December 2011. In fact she only said she was worried in case the weather changes  and 
water gets in. And then in December 2012  Mrs G told UKI that she cant  use the extension 
as a bedroom due to damage so she is staying with friends. In a letter in January 2012 Mr G 
confirmed that Mrs G was staying with friends  as they were worried  the roof might collapse 
or she might be unable to get out of the door due to subsidence damage. Mr G also said that 
the electrics could be very dangerous  not that they are or that theyve been  switched off 
and are not in use. He asked for accommodation  for Mrs G to be funded because she could  
not climb the stairs.
Photos of the downstairs  of the property  were taken by UKIs agent in 2012 and Mr G 
provided copies  of them to us in his submissions. They show  the extension  has little furniture 
in it, but it does include a bed-settee.  There are no signs in this picture that this room was 
likely unsafe  to live in due to damp  and/or water  ingress and/or vermin.  The rest of the 
downstairs living area looks cluttered with stored items which Mr G says couldnt be moved 
upstairs, thus leaving nowhere  else for Mrs G to sleep. I note the bedrooms and landing all 
contained sloped ceilings, but Im not persuaded the stored contents couldnt have been 
moved up there. These  photos show no sign of anything that might make  me think  the 
property was uninhabitable. 
I also bear in mind that following  UKIs  final response from January 2012, Mr and Mrs G 
didnt keep asking  for alternative accommodation costs to be paid. Nor did they tell UKI they 
were living in a property with potential costs  to them racking up. In fact some of the language 
used during the course of the claim actually suggests they both remained living in the 
property and/or didnt  suggest they were  renting  another house. 
Ive seen the correspondence  exchange between the solicitor  and Mr and Mrs G on the 
subject of these  comments. I know Mr and Mrs G have sought  to explain away these  
matters. Having considered their comments I think it was understandable  that UKI remained 
unconvinced by their answers. For example in October 2014 UKI recorded that Mrs G told it 
they were homeless and sleeping in their car. When the solicitor asked Mrs G about  this 
comment, Mrs G explained that when they visited the property to carry out maintenance 
work they would take rest breaks in their car as they didnt feel able to use the house.  I cant 
Ref: DRN60266785reasonably see how,  if that was what theyd said to UKI in October  2014,  UKI would have  
recorded what it did. Im not persuaded that UKIs record was inaccurate or that it was 
unreasonable for it to have concerns that Mr and Mrs G may not have moved  out of their 
home and into a property  subject  of a tenancy agreement. 
All of this makes me think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs G moved  out of their home due to 
damage caused by subsidence. Its certainly  not clear to me that that is most  likely what  they 
did. As such,  Im not persuaded that UKIs  act of declining their claim for accommodation 
costs was unfair or unreasonable.
In reply Mr and Mrs G said that UKI had refused to discuss the accommodation claim 
between 2012  and 2016. They felt Id ignored  that theyd said that the property had been 
without safe electrics since 2011,  and that this had been acknowledged by UKI in a report in 
2012. They  said their barrister had advised they have a good claim and that my report 
should place more emphasis on the mistakes  UKI made in handling the damage claim. They 
confirmed they had not received £780  from UKI previously (mentioned in my original detailed  
background) and theyd like this payment to be reissued.
I asked UKI about the payment of £780.  It said this had not been a claim payment made to 
Mr and Mrs G. On review,  looking at what was happening at the time, I think that makes 
sense. I cant see what it would have  been  paid to Mr and Mrs G for. Im not going to ask 
UKI to issue  this amount to Mr and Mrs G now.
I did consider in my provisional decision detail about the state of the house, including the 
electrics. But I was, and remain, of the view that whether the electrics  were so damaged as 
to make the home  uninhabitable was unclear.  And the report  from UKI in 2012 refers to 
needing to protect  the fuse-box from future  damage, not that it, at that time, was already 
suffering from damage. And in all the correspondence from Mr and Mrs G, and file notes 
recorded by UKI of their conversations, Mr and Mrs G didnt ask for the accommodation 
decision to be reviewed  prior to 2016,  and nor did UKI say it would not discuss  or consider 
this further.
I accept that UKI could  have handled  the damage  claim  better. But I dont agree with 
Mr and Mrs G that its failure to do so impacted the findings Ive made about the alternative 
accommodation situation. For me to make a finding  against UKI in that respect Id have to be 
satisfied that they most likely stayed away from their home due to damage  caused by 
subsidence. For the reasons set out provisionally, Im not persuaded that is the case. 
I understand that this has been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs G. Ive reviewed  their 
complaint and everything theyve said in reply to my provisional findings. However, having 
done so, Im not satisfied that UKIs refusal  to make any payment to them in respect of their 
accommodation claim is unfair or unreasonable. And for the reasons stated provisionally, Im 
also not minded  to make any award  in respect  of the other costs and losses  Mr and Mrs G 
asked this service to make UKI pay. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2021.
Ref: DRN60266786Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60266787Extract  from Provisional  Decision (7 Pages)
complaint
Mr and Mrs G have  complained about the insurer  for their former home, U K Insurance Limited (UKI),  in respect  
of a subsidence claim it handled starting in 2011. They feel it handled the claim badly  throughout  (it was settled in 
cash in August  2016 and they sold their home in February 2017) and felt UKI had acted unfairly by only agreeing 
to pay for six months of alternative accommodation. They  say that their losses,  excluding  their costs  for 
accommodation, totals £97,482.51. Their  claim  for accommodation costs amounts to £55,000 for roughly five 
years of renting  their sons home. The UKI policy in question  is arranged  by and carries the name of a building 
society.
Initially UKI told this service  we couldnt consider any part of Mr and Mrs Gs concerns  as they relate to activity 
which pre-dates a 2016  letter its solicitors had sent on its behalf and which it believed was a final response. UKI 
now accepts that the letter does not meet the definition of a final response, as required by the relevant  rules. 
Regarding the alternative accommodation issue, UKI said that whilst the issue was referred to in a 2012 final 
response, it did consent to us considering this matter. However, that final response  and two others also issued  in 
2012 (January, July and November), referred to claim handling  concerns Mr and Mrs G had raised during  the first 
year of the claim. I wont take any claim handling issues dealt with in the 2012 final response letters into account 
in my findings  but have  included a complete  background  below. 
background
Mr G says he wrote to the building society in June  2011, regarding a subsidence claim he had recently spoken  to 
it about, and enclosing  a report he had drafted regarding the state of the property, particularly  its electrics. The 
letter, a handwritten copy of which  has been  provided by Mr G, contained the following comments:
All ground floor is suffering exposure to dampness
My home is unfit for habitation
Electric system  has suffered  water ingress
I am moving my family out until I consider  the property safe to live in
The report  (a copy of which  Mr G has also provided) included the following comments:
I have had to switch off power completely
Water has penetrated electrical circuits
Integrity of fuse box in question
[if checks etc are done].I  can move back into my property
A copy of a handwritten tenancy agreement was later provided  to UKI and this service. It referred to an 
agreement for Mr and Mrs G to let a property  beginning 1 July 2011 at a sum of £750 per month.
UKI notes it was first told of the subsidence  (by the building  society) at Mr and Mrs Gs property in October 2011. 
UKI spoke to Mrs G and appointed its subsidence team  with a visit taking  place at the property in October 2011. 
But no report was produced until December 2011, at which  point two reports  were compiled. A claim for 
subsidence was accepted and it was agreed  that further investigations were needed to determine what had 
caused the movement.  Whilst UKIs  team  felt it was due to a nearby oak tree, Mr and Mrs G werent persuaded  
this was the case. 
Neither report  referred to a damaged electrical  system,  or there being no power. Nor did they refer to the house 
as a whole suffering  any damage, that the family werent living there or that alternative  accommodation  was 
needed. Mrs G spoke to UKI in October,  November and December  2011. In October 2011 Mrs G said that she 
was worried that if the weather changed water would get into the cracks. Mrs G also asked if they could fill the 
cracks and UKI gave authorisation for this to be done. Only in December  did she mention  that she was having to 
stay with friends because she couldnt use the ground floor bedroom which was situated in the extension which  
was the area of the home which had been subjected to subsidence  movement.  
In a final response dated January 2012 UKI told Mr and Mrs G that it wouldnt pay for Mrs G to live elsewhere. It 
said temporary  repair of the property  was possible whilst investigations continued.  It would review the need for 
alternative accommodation for the period  of repairs  once  the claim progressed. The letter also explained that 
investigations and monitoring were needed before the cause of the subsidence or what  repairs were needed 
could be determined. UKI apologised for the subsidence team having pressured Mr and Mrs G into signing  a 
document regarding repairs,  it accepted it had been far too early in the claim  for such authorisation to be 
needed/sought.
Ref: DRN60266788Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the findings of the subsidence team. UKI agreed  to send  the subsidence team 
again and a further visit, followed by a report, took place  in March 2012. The visit and report took into account 
that some  technical investigations had been completed:
Site investigations were  inconclusive - no positive root identifications were  made,  although the soil is at least 
partially made up of clay and a tree is within influencing distance.
And
The policy holder is concerned that water has entered the roof insulation as this is understood to smell  'like an 
old dishcloth' but this was not apparent during  our visit. There was also concern  regarding an electrical fuse box 
located on the wall near the ceiling crack close  to the left hand corner.  There were no signs  of water ingress 
visible possibly  due to the prompt sealing  of the crack externally by the policy holder.
The report  concluded that further investigations were warranted. And that the fuse box should be protected from 
water ingress. No comment was made  regarding Mr and Mrs Gs living arrangements, or any record made of the 
property, in general or in respect  to the extension,  being without power and/or  uninhabitable.
In April and May 2012  Mr and Mrs G made various and numerous objections to the proposed site investigations. 
For example they were  unhappy  with a proposed position  for a borehole and said there  was no need to drill 6 
metres down as the trees were not causing the problem, so no roots would  be found, so there was no risk of 
heave to consider because trees did not need to be removed. During these calls Mrs G also said that the 
monitoring team must replace  any tape removed from the cracks and not fill them with foam which would  conceal  
any current/future movement once  it hardened. Mrs G warned UKI that if the claim did not progress in the way 
they wanted  it to they would sue UKI for or at a cost of £60,000.
In around July 2012 UKIs subsidence team  said it felt a tree/trees should  be removed, the property monitored 
and then crack  repairs completed. Mr and Mrs G said that was insufficient  the extension needed demolishing 
and re-building. UKI agreed to consider settling the claim in cash to allow them to do that (which  it didnt agree 
was necessary).  
Also in July 2012 UKI issued a final response to Mr and Mrs G. It noted they were unhappy with its claim handling  
to date.  It said whilst that was regrettable it had handled things  in line with normal procedures. UKI said the 
monitoring company hadnt  removed any tape from the building  cracks. It confirmed  there  were  roots in the soil 
samples it had taken, that the soil was clay and that it was showing signs of desiccation  at depth. UKI confirmed  
it would need to keep monitoring the property   whilst  there had been  no recent movement there had been a lot 
of rain and it might be this had mitigated any affect the trees  would  otherwise have had on the soil.
UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs G in October  2012  and in November it sent a cheque for £780. It isnt clear  what this 
was for, or if it was cashed  by Mr and Mrs G. Also in November UKIs  subsidence team wrote to Mr and Mrs G. It 
told them  they could appoint an independent engineer  for which UKI would  pay £500 towards. Simultaneously 
UKI issued a final response to Mr and Mrs G setting  out what it saw as three options for the claim going forwards 
(although the appointment of an engineer wasnt included in the options or referred to in the letter). The response  
said that the three available options  UKI to run the repair work, or Mr and Mrs G to appoint a repairer, or Mr and 
Mrs G to accept a cash  settlement in lieu of repairing  to use towards rebuilding  (circa £7,000)  were  non-
negotiable. It confirmed there was no chance of heave and, whilst Mr and Mrs G had concerns  about decisions 
taken but its subsidence team, the team was more than capable of handling matters.  UKI said if Mr and Mrs G 
wanted it to complete  the property reinstatement, it needed leave to do that.
In June 2013 UKIs subsidence  team noted  it hadnt  heard from Mr and Mrs G following its letter in November  
2012. UKI confirmed it had received no contact either since  its letters of late 2012. The subsidence team told UKI 
it was sending Mr and Mrs G a letter telling them it would close their claim in 21 days if no contact was made.  A 
final report was subsequently  made to UKI and the claim  was closed.
Mrs G contacted the subsidence team in September and was surprised and frustrated to learn the claim had 
been closed.  Mr G also advised that damage to the property  had got worse   the roof had dropped  and daylight 
could be seen between the extension and the main house. Mr and Mrs G felt the right thing  to do would  be for an 
independent engineer  to be appointed. UKI said this had been offered in November 2012, but noted only to a 
value of £500. It said it would pay up to £1,000 for this to help the claim move forwards.  
In September 2013  UKIs subsidence team wrote to Mr and Mrs G offering them a choice of three  independent 
engineers for them to select one from for UKI to pay for (rather than pay Mr and Mrs G to appoint one). The letter 
explained the engineer would be appointed to comment  on the damage, cause and repairs  necessary at the 
property.
Ref: DRN60266789Mr and Mrs G obtained a report in October  2013 (rather  than having UKI appoint one of the proposed  engineers) 
but UKIs subsidence team  had concerns with it. Over  the next few months UKI sought  to resolve those concerns, 
initially by trying to contact the engineer.  Mrs G said UKI shouldnt  do this, it should go through  her. Mrs G advise  
there would be a further cost to her for this follow-up activity. UKI agreed  to pay this but noted that the engineer 
was meant  to be independent,  but he seemed  to be acting  for Mr and Mrs G. Into 2014  this issue remained 
unresolved.
Meanwhile, in November 2013, whilst waiting for answers from the engineer,  UKI sent Mr and Mrs G a cheque for 
£4,000. UKI told them this was at least what they were entitled to under the claim, it should be treated  as an 
interim payment and cashing it would not affect  their claim or the disputes that were on-going  these would 
remain on-going whether or not Mr and Mrs G cashed the cheque, tore it up or sent it back  to UKI. 
But also around this time Mr and Mrs G were told their policy would  not renew as they had refused  to allow it to 
be under-pinned. This caused  a lot of consternation for Mr and Mrs G. UKI contacted  its underwriters, advising 
the property did not need under-pinning and the claim was still on-going. The renewal went  ahead.
In February 2014 Mr and Mrs G provided a further  report from their engineer.  Neither UKI nor its subsidence 
team were persuaded by the report  it suggested that if the oak was taken out the main  house would  be at risk 
of heave damage  so a repair scheme of underpinning was recommended, but UKI didnt accept there was a 
heave risk. However,  it felt the way the appointment of an engineer had been handled  in 2013 meant they could 
do little else than accept a repair scheme for the property  would need to incorporate under -pinning it. Mr G also 
forwarded a quote  from a contractor for under-pinning.
UKI requested  further cost information and Mrs G left a voicemail for UKI in late April 2014. In a response  letter 
UKI noted that Mrs G may have  suggested in her voicemail that their architect  had said that under-pinning wasnt  
possible. UKI said that it was happy to meet with Mr and Mrs Gs architect  but if it wasnt satisfied that the only 
option was to re-build it liability would be limited to the cost of under-pinning and repairing.
However, by the end of May 2014, having received and considered some comments  from Mr and Mrs Gs 
surveyor, UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs G and said it accepted  that the extension would  have to be re-built.  It invited 
them to come up with a proposal and costs for the work.
Mr and Mrs G experienced difficulty  in obtaining this information. It seemed  that contractors were reluctant to go 
to too much trouble unless guaranteed the contract. They sent some detail  to UKI which Mr G had drawn up. UKI 
was concerned  that all the work  detailed wasnt really necessary. UKI and its subsidence  team discussed the 
costs at length during August 2014 but by the end of the month,  with no final answer being  available, Mr and Mrs 
G had become  increasingly frustrated.
Whilst UKI was still deliberating in September 2014 Mr and Mrs G sent it detail  of further  costs  they felt it should  
be covering. On 18 September 2014 UKI wrote to Mr and Mrs G with an offer to settle their claim at a value  of 
just under £44,000. It gave a breakdown for this settlement, explaining it would pay VAT on receipt of a VAT 
invoice, and it included the cost of alternative accommodation for six months  whilst the re-build  was taking  place 
(£4,500). It also queried why Mr and Mrs G had now asked  it to pay accommodation costs  dating  back to 2011.  
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the offer and challenged it. Mrs G said she wanted  to speak to UKIs engineer 
about the scope of work proposed and that UKI couldnt fairly withhold payment  of the VAT. UKI felt a site 
meeting would help resolve matters but continued to discuss  internally the concerns  Mrs G had raised.
In October 2014 UKI clarified that Mr and Mrs G could  rebuild the extension to the original footprint. Mr and Mrs 
G wrote to UKI. They  said they couldnt accept UKIs settlement offer and were looking (again) at obtaining their 
own cost for the work. Regarding UKIs query about the accommodation claim  dating back  to 2011  they said 
theyd made UKI aware, from the outset, that the property was unsafe  but their requests for proper inspections 
had fallen on deaf ears.  They  said UKI should properly inspect the property before the extension was demolished 
and, if UKI refused to do so, they would deem it had accepted  that it was liable  for paying  for accommodation  
costs. UKI noted Mrs G had told it that they were currently sleeping  in their car as they were  homeless.
UKI continued  considering the claim, the objections to the settlement Mr and Mrs G had raised and what a fair 
settlement would be. In December 2014 UKI sought advice  from its legal  team as it wanted to know whether it 
should make payment  to Mr and Mrs G in the sum offered  even though they werent happy to accept that as a full 
and final payment.  On 17 December 2014 UKI sent a cheque  to Mr and Mrs G in the amount it had offered  in 
September 2014, but including VAT.
In January 2015  Mr and Mrs G told UKI they though  the dimensions  it had used to create  its re-build scope were  
wrong. UKI began looking  into this further issue and again broached the idea, internally, that a site meeting  might 
be required  with all experts present to go over the fine detail  of the planned work.  UKI spoke to Mrs G and told 
Ref: DRN602667810her the cheque  had been  issued in full and final settlement and that a site meeting had to take place. Mrs G 
called another UKI representative the next day and said shed felt bullied. Mrs G said she didnt think UKIs 
subsidence team were suitably  qualified to assess her property so she wasnt prepared to meet  with them. 
Following this period of correspondence UKI felt it needed to obtain a formal  legal  opinion on the claim and it told 
Mr and Mrs G in a letter dated  5 February 2015 that it would be in touch again after the matter had been 
reviewed. 
In June 2015 UKIs solicitor wrote to Mr and Mrs G and proposed an engineer, not affiliated  with UKI, visit their 
property to assess what was needed  to re-build the extension.  The solicitor explained the appointment of the 
engineer would mean that UKIs subsidence team wouldnt  be further involved with determining the outcome  of 
the claim. In August the solicitor  chased Mr and Mrs G to provide their agreement  for this way forward.  Mr and 
Mrs G then sent numerous pieces of evidence to the solicitor which the solicitor  acknowledged receipt of in early 
September. But in October Mr G wrote to UKI setting out concerns he had with the way the solicitor had dealt  
with Mrs G and what he perceived as its lack of action  in moving the claim forwards. He said it should agree  to 
pay for him to appoint  a quantity surveyor of his choice to look at the costings. In another letter Mr G wrote to 
another UKI representative  around this time he said that every point the individual  had made on the claim  had 
been proven wrong, not even by experts, just professionally qualified  people who know their job.
In November 2015 UKIs solicitor wrote  to Mr and Mrs G stating that UKI had agreed to pay up to £1,000 for then 
to appoint a quantity surveyor  of their choosing. The solicitor apologised for any misunderstanding that had 
occurred during  the previous telephone calls and it was requested that all further  contact occur in writing.
Mr G then wrote to another UKI representative setting out his concerns  about the course of the claim as a whole,  
detailing the involvement of various  individuals. Mr G clarified that he was now going to find a surveyor  to appoint 
as UKI had agreed he could, and hed look to find one who could also negotiate the claim  on his behalf. In 
December 2015  Mr Gs chosen  surveyor wrote to UKIs solicitor. The letter addressed some of the re-build work  
that was in dispute and said Mr G was looking  for a speedy resolution. Over the next few months the solicitor  and 
surveyor exchanged correspondence debating the various re-build issues  that were preventing the parties 
reaching settlement on the claim. This involved, at times, each suggesting the other was withholding key 
evidence. Each party  denied  this was the case.
On 8 March 2016,  having  clarified UKIs position on a number of re-build  issues, the solicitor put forward  a 
proposal for settlement.  The offer was £42,000 for works, plus project management costs,  plus VAT on both. The 
surveyor responded stating that the clarification  provided  actually suggested UKI was seeking to make Mr and 
Mrs G redesign their extension in a way that was unlikely to be acceptable to either them or building control. A 
comparison of costs  was provided to the solicitor. With fees added in and other  costs the surveyor felt UKI had 
overlooked, the surveyors value  stood at £71,849  against  UKIs at £56,700. The solicitor  replied at length, further  
disputing some costs but stating  UKI would agree to others (totalling about £2,000) which would be paid upon 
proof of outlay.  The surveyor  felt the response  was petty.
The main sticking point appeared to be what UKI would pay for in respect of windows  and insulating the property. 
Seemingly to reinstate  the property as it was before, which  UKI was seeking to do as per its policy liability, 
upgraded glazing and/or insulation was felt to be required in order for the re-build  to meet current building 
regulations. But UKI didnt seem to accept this was the case. The surveyor wrote a further letter  to UKI in June  
2016.  
On 4 August 2016 Mr G put an offer to UKIs  solicitor,  setting out what  theyd accept to close  the matter  of the 
damage claim   £68,648. This sum included various professional fees and £6,000 to cover six-months rental to 
allow them to stay elsewhere during the repair  work. But Mr G said he wanted to continue  to discuss with UKI 
their claim for accommodation  costs which they felt were due from 2011 onwards. Just 11 days later UKI 
accepted the offer and its solicitor sent confirmation  of that along with a cheque for the full amount to 
Mr and Mrs G. The solicitor  also asked for information  to enable it to consider Mr and Mrs Gs claim for 
accommodation costs  to date.
The parties then spent more than a year corresponding about the accommodation  claim. UKIs solicitor set out 
UKIs final position  on the matter in January  2018 and UKI followed this with a final response  letter from itself in 
March 2018. This merely noted  Mr and Mrs G were  unhappy  with the decision set out in the January letter but 
that UKI stood  by that. Ive bulleted here some of the key aspects from the correspondence from this period (its 
worth noting that many  points have  been  re-stated and/or re-explained many times over by both parties 
throughout the different pieces of correspondence).
Mr and Mrs G sent a letter and some evidence to the solicitor in October 2016, UKI responded on 5 
December 2016. It confirmed the reinstatement  for the property had been settled and the only thing left to 
determine was the accommodation claim.
Ref: DRN602667811It was confirmed that UKI does  not accept the insured property was uninhabitable and travel costs would  not 
be accepted.
The solicitor maintained that there was no evidence of electrical problems  at the property  and stated that Mr 
and Mrs G had not evidenced any water, damp or rodent damage.
Mr and Mrs G said UKI had never sent anyone  to assess whether the property was habitable  and never 
tested the electrics,  and what assessments took place  focused only on the extension not the property as a 
whole. They challenged  the solicitor to produce  evidence/reports that detailed the conditions  in each  room  of 
the house and showed detailed tests ensuring all the propertys services were  working correctly. They felt 
UKI and all its agents had failed to give specific descriptive  reasons why the house was suitable  for 
occupation.
Mr G argued he had produced a report in June  2011  (hand-written by himself) stating that electrical matters 
needed attention but UKI had failed to seek a certificate of electrical compliance despite having been made 
aware of issues with the electrics, and UKIs engineers were not qualified to deal in electrical  matters.  
Without such a certificate, UKI must  settle the accommodation claim.  The solicitor  said the qualifications of 
the engineers were irrelevant  no evidence of issues with the electrics  had been provided.
Mr and Mrs G said, if theyd reported the matter to it, the local authority  would have condemned the house.
The solicitor acknowledged that Mr G has a qualification  in electrics.
Mr and Mrs G set out checks and assessments they felt UKI should have undertaken but didnt such as 
examining the rear/external door which wouldnt  shut properly and left them vulnerable  to thieves,  and 
checking the cables and pipes in the loft for rodent damage.  They said it hadnt  completed any assessment 
of the void they said was forming under the floor, so no suggestion  or authorisation for temporary repair if 
this was ever given.  
The solicitor said Mr and Mrs G had failed to comply with the policy term requiring them to take all 
reasonable care to prevent  damage by consistently  refusing  to undertake temporary repairs. Mr and Mrs G 
said UKI had unreasonably refused to do any work at the property unless or until an oak tree was removed   
so it wasnt fair to say they had refused  to undertake works, when in fact that was what UKI had done.
Mr and Mrs G said if UKI had been clearer before as to why it would not meet the claim  for accommodation  
they could have gathered evidence before the extension was demolished.
There was no evidence, UKI said,  that Mrs G had to sleep downstairs, or indeed that she did so. Mr and Mrs 
G refuted this, confirming by reference  to photos that there was a bed-settee in the extension room.
It was noted that whilst a rental  agreement  had been  provided, no rent had been paid by Mr and Mrs G.
The solicitor asked for evidence that Mr and Mrs G were  staying at the rental property and they provide a 
witness statement.
The solicitor said it looked,  at best (and without  prejudice  to any other objections raised), as though  Mr and 
Mrs G had stayed with their son, and that wouldnt  allow  them to claim rent from UKI. Mr and Mrs G said this 
was not true, he lived elsewhere. The son provided confirmation  in writing  and the solicitor  asked for a formal 
statement of truth to be completed.
UKI maintained it had not been supplied with a copy of the rental  agreement  until October 2015  this hadnt 
been presented to it in 2011.
The solicitor set out what it said were a number  of discrepancies regarding things  that had been said during 
the claim by Mr and Mrs G about their accommodation, it shared call notes and some telephone recordings 
as evidence  of these comments.
Mr and Mrs G said they felt the solicitors  comments regarding discrepancies  couldnt be defended and they 
were made up, they hadnt been said. But they also, some ten-months after the concerns were raised, 
provided explanations in response to the solicitor. The solicitor set out why these explanations  werent, in its 
view, reasonable or reasonably explained  away the seemingly  contradictory information that had been 
provided.
Mr and Mrs G said that none of the reports produced by UKI had been accurate or truthful  and many of UKIs 
agents and representatives  had not been truthful  during  the claim.  The solicitor  said, in its view, Mr and Mrs 
G had not been entirely honest  with UKI during  the course of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs G said the solicitor constantly took too long to reply and when it did, the response  contained  
largely the same information as before.  The solicitor  apologised for any perceived  delay  and explained the 
matter was complex and required consideration to and attention in reply.
In May 2018 Mr and Mrs G made  a complaint to us. They  sent us a complaint form along with various evidence 
including a list of what  they saw as their losses which they feel UKI is liable for. The losses totalled £97,482.51  
and were  detailed  as follows:
On 27 February 2017  the house had been sold, this was at a loss in order to achieve a quick  sale  the loss 
was £91,942
Contents had been  damaged by damp and mould  replacements  totalled  £2,578.86
Repairs had been  undertaken to the main house to resolve damage caused by damp and mould  £421.65
External doors had been  replaced  £2,540
Ref: DRN602667812Mr and Mrs G said they were unhappy about how the claim had been handled and that they wanted their 
accommodation costs,  totalling  £55,000, paying  too.
As mentioned  above, UKI initially told this service it felt we couldnt consider what had happened  with the claim 
before 2016. As that situation  has now changed,  and whilst our investigator  did share her thoughts on the 
complaint as it related to post 2016 activity, which Mr and Mrs G objected to, Ive now reviewed  everything  and 
am issuing this provisional decision to share my thoughts on all the complaint aspects I can consider with both 
parties. Ive also explained below what small parts of it I cant consider.
END OF EXTRACT (PAGE 7)
Ref: DRN6026678