K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the end of hire charges Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) applied when he 
returned a car he was financing through them.
background
In March 2015 Mr C took receipt of a new car. He financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with Lex. But when he returned  the car at the end of the hire term he was 
disappointed to be presented with a bill to repair damage to a dent on the quarter panel that 
Lex said was beyond  fair wear and tear.
He said the car had been returned in an exemplary condition and the inspection that had 
been completed hadnt identified any damage to the quarter panel. He said the damage 
must have  occurred after the car was collected and the inspection was completed.
Lex said the damage was underlying a paint  chip that had been  identified during the 
collection inspection. They said that the chip and underlying dent were outside  of what  they 
would consider fair wear and tear and were  therefore chargeable under  the terms of Mr Cs 
contract with them.
So Mr C referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
noted that there was a dent under the paint chip that had been identified  in the initial  
inspection. He said the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) provided the 
industry guidelines on what constituted fair wear  and tear when a car was returned at the 
end of a hire period. So he compared  the damage  to this standard. The standard said:
Dents (up to 10mm in diameter) are acceptable  provided there are no more  than 2 per 
panel and the paint  surface is not broken
He thought the dent was smaller than 10mm but as he could see the paint surface had been 
broken he thought Lex had been fair in applying the charge.
But Mr C disagreed. He said the chip had been damaged so that it fell outside of fair wear 
and tear and he therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr C so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN67482632Mr C acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Ive considered the damage identified in the inspection photographs. I think  its reasonable to 
suggest it is a chip within a dent. The dent appears  to be a small one but as the paint 
surface is broken I think it exceeds  the fair wear  and tear guidance and is therefore 
chargeable.
Ive considered whether its likely this damage happened at a point after the first inspection. 
Mr C says its been deliberately done but Im not persuaded that wouldve been in anyones 
interest. It wouldve diminished the vehicles value further. I think its most likely the damage 
occurred in the time Mr C had possession of the car and I therefore  think Lex have  been  fair 
and reasonable when  applying a charge to refurbish it. Im therefore not asking them  to take 
any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6748263