K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited (HCL) was wrong to record  adverse 
information on his credit file. He thinks  this affected  his ability  to get a mortgage and caused 
financial loss.  
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 30 March  2019  a copy of this is attached and it forms part of my final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  what Id decided  about this complaint  and 
what I intended to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.  I invited the 
parties to consider my provisional findings  and let me have any comments or additional 
information. 
Mr M asked  for a bit more time to send us more evidence and I thought it was fair to allow  
that. Both parties have now responded to my provisional decision. HCL has nothing further 
to add but Mr M is unhappy with my provisional  findings. 
Mr M thinks it is unfair that he has been  left out of pocket as a result of HCLs  actions.  Hes 
provided correspondence from two third parties and asked me to take this into account in my 
final decision.  
  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M has very strong  feelings about  what happened here. I can see hes gone  
to some time and trouble  to obtain  additional  evidence - from a prospective purchaser for his 
property and his builder- and I thank him for that. I am sorry to disappoint Mr M but Im afraid 
this new evidence hasnt  changed my mind.  
I have considered the correspondence carefully. Both the prospective purchaser and Mr Ms 
builder clearly have sympathy for the situation Mr M found himself in. They both express the 
view that Mr M has probably lost out financially as a result of adverse information HCL 
recorded on his credit file. But the losses they describe  are not quantified  or specific  - theyre 
set out in very general terms. 
I remain of the view that the progress of any property sale or building  work isnt always  
predictable. I am not persuaded that HCL could reasonably have foreseen the sorts of 
losses Mr M describes. And I am not persuaded there is enough evidence  to reasonably  find 
any such losses resulted  solely and directly from mistakes HCL made.
As I have explained in my provisional  decision,  I think lenders generally consider a number 
of factors when deciding  whether to lend. I cant be certain what  may have featured  the 
lenders decision not to extend  credit  to Mr M here initially. But, even if I were to accept this 
was due to HCLs actions  alone, I dont have  enough evidence  to reliably calculate what (if 
any) impact  this had on Mr Ms property sale and the building work.  
Ref: DRN67942282For the reasons  I have  given already, I think the offer HCL made  to put things right here 
seems fair in all of the circumstances. And I am not persuaded  there  are fair or reasonable 
grounds to require HCL to pay more compensation or do anything further. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr M hoped for and I am sorry if he feels let down. Mr M isnt 
obliged to accept  my decision. In which case,  it remains open to him to pursue this matter by 
other means, should he wish to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is Hyundai Capital UK Limited should  (if it hasnt done so already) reduce 
the balance of Mr Ms account and rectify  his credit file in line, with its previous offer.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67942283copy provisional decision 30 March 2019
complaint
Mr M complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited (HCL)  was wrong to record adverse information  on 
his credit file. He thinks this affected his ability to get a mortgage and caused financial loss.  
background
Mr M got a car with a conditional sale agreement (CSA) from HCL in 2014. The CSA ended  in 
October 2017 and Mr M thought he had nothing left to pay. HCL got in touch a few months later to say 
he still owed over £1,000. Mr M couldnt  understand how this happened as hed made all of the 
payments due under  the CSA. He asked HCL for a full explanation. HCL sent a default  notice but 
agreed to withdraw  that after Mr M complained to this service.
HCL told Mr M the shortfall  accrued due to a system error  but it didnt  realise what  had happened until 
the account was reconciled when the CSA ended. Mr M had been making regular overpayments and 
HCL made partial settlements,  refunded some money and reduced Mr Ms monthly direct debit at 
times - because its not allowed to keep the account in credit.  
HCL accepts  a mistake was made  when  some of the payments  refunded to Mr M were taken into 
account when partial early settlements were calculated. As a result of the account  adjustments HCL 
made Mr M didnt pay enough to clear the debt. HCL offered to waive  nearly £600 and accept  
instalment payments to repay  the balance. It acknowledged  Mr Ms credit file should  not be adversely 
affected and offered to rectify that.        
Mr M didnt receive HCLs letter unfortunately, for another five months. So he didnt realise HCL was 
recording missed payments on his credit  file until he was refused a mortgage in August 2018. He 
thinks that was due to adverse information recorded by HCL. He says HCL shouldnt have reported 
late payments  when  hed made his contractual repayments on time and HCL knew the final balance 
was disputed for good reason. He wants HCL to pay appropriate compensation.  
Our adjudicator asked HCL for some more  information to show  how the shortfall had come about. 
HCL sent copy statements and some reconciliation calculations. Shes  satisfied the outstanding 
balance is correct. She acknowledges HCLs mistakes caused Mr M distress and inconvenience. But 
she thinks HCL has taken appropriate steps now to put things right.  
Shes not persuaded theres enough evidence  to show  that information HCL recorded  was the sole 
reason Mr Ms mortgage application  didnt succeed. She doesnt think  the financial losses he has 
described were foreseeable and she feels Mr M could  have done more  to mitigate any losses. She 
doesnt recommend HCL should have to do anything  further. 
Mr M says he did his best to mitigate  losses. He thinks it was reasonable to wait for evidence of how 
the shortfall accrued  before  paying it off. He doesnt have access to accounts  online and couldnt  
have worked  out what happened without an accountant.  He says even our adjudicator asked for more  
evidence before  she accepted HCLs figures. He repaid the balance as soon as he was given proper 
evidence. He feels HCL should have supplied  this earlier  and followed  up/agreed a payment  
arrangement before recording late payments. 
Mr M confirmed  his credit file has been updated now and the mortgage application was accepted. But 
he believes the lender only changed its mind  because  HCL removed  the adverse  information  it had 
recorded - thats the only change in his circumstances. He accepts HCL may not have been  aware of 
the specifics  of his financial situation. But he thinks it should have realised the effect that late payment 
markers can have and recognised it was wrong to apply those here - when arrears were clearly  
disputed. 
Ref: DRN67942284He incurred financial losses because  he was refused a mortgage - a potential buyer  withdrew  from a 
property sale and he had to delay building  work  which  increased costs.  He wants HCL to compensate  
him for everything  hes been through as a result of the errors it made  - including financial losses. And 
he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Where evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach  my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider circumstances.  
Mr M says a salesperson told him he could make overpayments towards  this CSA when  he took it out 
- which would reduce  the amount he had to repay overall. I can see Mr M made  overpayments, on top 
of his contractual monthly payments, throughout the course of the agreement. And I think its 
understandable he was shocked to find he still owed  HCL a relatively  large amount  of money when  
the CSA came to an end. I have spoken  to Mr M and I think  theres  still a little confusion around what  
happened here exactly.  So it might  be helpful if I set out some of the relevant details  at the start of this 
decision.   
early repayments
Under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) (and some associated legislation)  borrowers are entitled 
to make partial early  repayments (overpayments) and receive a rebate. Borrowers must give lenders 
notice of the intention  to settle  early  and lenders  have  to recalculate the debt in a specific way.  
This is reflected in the terms of the CSA Mr M signed  which says 
 
2.6 You may repay all amounts payable by you under this agreement early, either  in part or in full, by 
giving notice in person or in writing, either posted or handed in to 86 Station Road, Redhill,  Surrey 
RH1 1SR, by telephone on 0871  522 5998 or by e-mail at [customer services] and by repaying the 
appropriate amount, which may include a rebate.
2.7 If you repay the amount of the credit early, in part, under clause 2.6 above we may reduce the 
repayments in order to preserve the duration of this agreement and will notify you of the new 
repayments in writing
Theres no set format  for the notice  the borrower must provide. Industry guidance says the borrower 
should say whats necessary to make his intentions clear  - but the creditor should check  with the 
borrower to clarify if theres any doubt.  
HCL has sent us its customer contact notes for this account. I think  these are reasonably detailed and 
seem to be consistent with events. Theres a note in October  2014 that says customer requested to 
pay extra payments to clear  final balance . And I think Mr M probably made it clear at the outset that 
he intended to make regular over payments towards this CSA. If HCL had any doubt  about  Mr Ms 
intentions I think it would have been reasonable to raise that with Mr M.  
what happened to the payments Mr M made towards the account?
HCLs notes say it did contact Mr M about overpayments several times throughout  the course  of the 
CSA. The overpayments gave rise to a credit balance - which isnt allowed on this sort of account. It 
looks as if HCL told Mr M that and applied the credit  as an early partial repayment  at first.
Mr M continued to overpay  regularly. And HCL told him it would have to refund some  money about a 
year or so later - as no more  early settlements could  be made without affecting the final balloon 
Ref: DRN67942285amount. Around the same time HCL suggested Mr M should stop making overpayments so that no 
further credit would accrue. It reduced the amount taken via his monthly  direct debit one penny each 
month and continued to refund any overpayments until the CSA.  
the shortfall
The account  was reconciled after the final balloon  payment was made  in October  2017. Then HCL 
realised there was a shortfall  - because the system had treated some of the money  refunded to Mr M 
as if it had also repaid what he owed. I am satisfied that Mr M still owed HCL over £1,000 when  the 
CSA ended  as a result.  
Mr M has confirmed that he accepts there was a shortfall here. And I understand he has repaid the 
outstanding debt. So, it only remains for me to decide if theres anything  else HCL should do to put 
things right.       
putting things right
HCL accepts  a system error  caused the payment  shortfall. I am satisfied this mistake caused Mr M 
distress and convenience and I think its fair he should  be compensated for that. HCL has reduced the 
amount Mr M had to repay by about £600. Like our adjudicator, I think  this seems reasonable for the 
impact HCLs mistakes  had on Mr M. 
HCL seems to accept that Mr Ms credit file shouldnt  have been affected in this situation. It has 
removed the adverse  information it recorded and I think thats  fair. I appreciate Mr M feels strongly 
that HCL should reimburse financial losses he incurred  when he was refused a mortgage.  But, Im 
not persuaded  that Mr M has provided enough evidence to show that he is out of pocket directly  as a 
result of mistakes HCL made.
I have read correspondence from Mr Ms mortgage  broker,  at the relevant  time. I can see she initially 
told Mr M she wasnt sure why his application was refused - but later thought this was due to 
information HCL had recorded  on his credit file. I have considered Mr Ms credit file as well. And given  
some thought to what Mr M says there being no other relevant change in his circumstances when the 
application was accepted. 
I think  lenders generally consider a variety of factors  when deciding whether  or not to lend. I havent 
seen anything  from the relevant lender here. And I cant be certain what may have featured in its 
decision to reject  and then accept Mr Ms application.  But, even if I were  to accept this was probably 
solely due to HCLs actions,  I dont have enough evidence to reliably calculate what, if any, impact 
this had on Mr Ms finances. 
Mr M has explained some  building work had to be delayed and he lost a prospective property 
purchaser because the mortgage funds he expected werent available  when he thought they would 
be. Im sorry to hear about that. But property sales and building works are often unpredictable. Its 
impossible for me to be certain  that the prospective buyer here, for example,  would have definitely  
gone ahead with the purchase.  And I cant safely conclude that the building  work wouldnt have been  
delayed but for HCLs  actions.  
Based on the information I have seen so far, I am not persuaded that HCL could  or should reasonably  
have foreseen  those  losses. And its difficult to see how the financial losses Mr M incurred could be 
reliably quantified  and shown to have resulted directly from mistakes HCL made. 
I share Mr Ms frustration that this matter wasnt sorted out sooner. I think  it would have been helpful if 
HCL had been able to explain what happened clearly to Mr M when the problem first came to light. 
This probably would have  prevented most of the trouble and upset he experienced.  But, for the 
reasons I have explained above, I am minded to find HCL has taken appropriate steps to put things 
right. And I am not presently  persuaded that there are fair and reasonable grounds to require HCL to 
pay more compensation  or do anything further.  
Ref: DRN67942286I invite both parties to think about what I have said and let me have any further comments or 
information by the date set out below. After that Ill consider all of the evidence  again  and make my 
final decision.  
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I may receive from the parties  by 13 April 2019, my provisional 
decision is I do not intend to uphold this complaint in that I consider HCLs  offer to reduce the 
outstanding balance and rectify Mr Ms  credit file is a fair and reasonable response. And I cannot  
reasonably require HCL to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN6794228