K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with their let property insurer Allianz Insurance  Plc because  it 
has so far refused  to completely settle  their claims for malicious damage and theft.
background
A policy was arranged with Allianz  in March 2016.  In May 2016 the house was inspected 
by Mr and Mrs Ps agent. He felt it wasnt in a good state of repair but it was habitable.
The policy renewed in 2017 and on 8 May a council  officer inspected  the property. He 
noted there was a problem  with the hot water  which he said needed fixing. He identified a 
number of other issues too. An improvement notice  was issued on 19 May 2017.
In October  2017 Allianz received a claim form signed and dated by Mr P on
12 October 2017. It said squatters had gained entry on 19 May 2017 and caused  damage  
throughout the property, leaving debris  everywhere.  Photographs were sent a few days  
later which were said to accompany  the recently  provided claim form.
A loss adjuster  visited the property on 22 November  2017. He reported:
Tenant  and her daughter  and children were renting. The tenancy  expired and the tenant  
gave notice she was leaving  but told social services who put her in a care home. The 
policyholder wasnt  notified until social services said the boiler was broken and they 
arranged to attend and found the tenants daughter  had been living  at the property  and 
had invited friends to stay illegally. The tenants  daughter has advised police the front door 
was open and squatters entered so she left.
The report, when  considering the damage in each room, detailed  that the kitchen needed 
re-fitting. The adjuster authorised clearance works  which Allianz agent undertook in 
January 2018.  This work involved clearing  faecal matter, disposing of needles and fogging 
the property to remove odours. The agents  report noted that the sink, worktops, unit and 
boiler were missing.
In February 2018  the loss adjuster emailed Mrs P. He said the only issue remaining to be 
resolved was how many excesses Allianz might be able to take, depending as to how 
many instances of malicious  damage it was felt there had been. On that basis  he said he 
was happy to authorise a payment for loss of rent for the past seven months  (dating back  
to when the council last paid its share) of £4,523. Mrs P accepted that offer.
In March 2018, not having received any payment, Mrs P chased  Allianz.  She was told the 
matter was on hold pending further  enquiries. Allianz later told Mrs P that the offer 
regarding loss of rent had been made in error and it wouldnt be paying this to her. It said 
there was no cover  for this under the policy and the damage claim wouldnt succeed 
because the damage hadnt been malicious  and was all part of the improvement notice.
Mr and Mrs P asked  Allianz what its intentions were  regarding  the stolen boiler. Allianz 
said it didnt have a claim for that and had never been told about it. The broker said it had 
been but provided a new claim form anyway. Allianz  said it would look into it. The claim 
form (as had the previous one) noted that it was the police  that had informed 
Mr and Mrs P that the property had been found insecure. Allianz began the process of 
obtaining the police report.
Ref: DRN61181002Mr and Mrs P complained to this service. Our adjudicator said there was clearly  damage 
at the property beyond that detailed on the improvement notice. He felt the time had come  
for Allianz  to just settle the malicious damage claim and give an answer on the theft claim. 
He said the loss of rent claim though failed because the property  was likely uninhabitable 
due to the work detailed on the improvement notice. But, in his view, Allianz couldnt 
reasonably retract the offer it had previously made to pay lost rent.
Mr and Mrs P generally accepted the findings. But they said they wanted more in 
settlement for lost rent.
Allianz didnt accept the findings. Allianz said it would  consider the malicious damage 
claim further if Mr and Mrs P specified  exactly what they were claiming for. But regarding 
theft it said it really wanted to wait for the police report. However, it went  on to say that if it 
had to decide on that claim  now it would decline it. It felt there  was no lost rent to claim for 
under the policy  and it shouldnt have to pay against  its previous offer as its retraction had 
been made following the receipt of further  information which  changed the outcome of the 
claim.
In May 2019  Allianz told us it was still waiting  for the police report  to come  through.  It also 
said it wouldnt consider  any liability for the claims until Mr and Mrs P had satisfied it 
regarding some policy liability issues it had asked them about. Specifically that the 
property hadnt  been in a good state of repair and that the tenant  hadnt been a 
professional.
I issued a provisional decision:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I intend  to uphold the 
complaint but my reasoning  differs  somewhat from that set out by our adjudicator so Im 
issuing a provisional decision to share my views with both parties. Both can then respond 
before I make  a final decision.
The broker  likely didnt  do too good  a job of making  the claims on behalf of Mr and Mrs P. 
But I think they clearly  expected  the missing boiler  to be part of the claim made in 
October 2017. The provision of the photo  of where the boiler  should  have  been  was 
sufficient in my view to have put Allianz on notice of a claim in this respect,  even though 
no specific reference to theft was made. The fact this wasnt  identified  until much  later 
was, I think, an oversight  on Allianz part. Ive viewed this from the point of view that the 
claim for the boiler was a part of the wider claim for damage.
In essence I think  Allianz has acted  too late to be able to fairly and reasonably  decline 
liability for any part of this loss. Allianz  appointed  its loss adjuster to assess  the damage 
and handle the claim. Ive copied his notes above.  Quite apart from the fact that this type 
of claim can be generally challenging for insurers, these notes highlight some  aspects that 
would reasonably cause major concerns for most insurers and their loss adjusters. For 
example there is a suggestion that the property was unoccupied and being lived in by 
someone other than the tenant even  before  squatters moved in. Further  the door was 
open when squatters entered,  so there was no force or violence used prior to the damage 
or theft taking place. And yet the loss adjuster wasnt  bothered by any of this.
Ref: DRN61181003The loss adjuster accepted the claim and in more than one way. He arranged  for work to 
be carried out at the property,  even  though  there were clear  issues  identified  during his 
first visit that might have  negated Allianz  liability.  He then confirmed to Mr and Mrs P that 
the claim for damage had been  accepted, the only issue was how many excesses would 
apply. And on that basis he also agreed  to settle  the loss of rent claim, initially by 
provision of an interim payment to cover  all loss to date. At no stage was it made clear 
that work  was being done on a reserved basis or that any other  claim enquiries were  still 
to be carried out (beyond  determining  the excess payments). I think Allianz acted in a way 
that meant  it had accepted liability for the loss and Im not persuaded it can fairly back  out 
of that now.
If Allianz had wanted to check  the state of the house  prior to the loss it could have put a 
hold on the claim at the outset whilst it did this, likewise  regarding obtaining a police report  
and even looking into the issue of the type of tenant (non-professional). I know  Allianz 
says things changed later after it was provided  with the details of the council improvement 
notice but I dont think that is really a relevant argument here.  The notice may well have 
highlighted the need for checks to be carried out  but the early claim details, including the 
types of damage  seen  by the loss adjuster,  gave  good reason for liability  checks  to be 
carried out as well as for consideration  to be given to the prior state of the property, had 
Allianz wanted to do so. But it didnt.
Therefore, Im going  to require Allianz to settle both claims and the linked claim for loss of 
rent in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  Mr and Mrs P have 
provided some 46 photos of damage. Allianz will have  to settle based on those, 
regardless of anything  being included in the improvement notice. The theft of the boiler 
has been quantified by an estimate for replacement  and repair  of the system (radiators 
were taken off the walls and some  pipework stolen). For any work that Mr and Mrs P have 
had done, AXA wont be able to settle  based on what it would have cost it to do the work.
Whilst I know Mr and Mrs P have  done some work, it isnt clear to me if its all been done 
and/or if the house has been re-let.  Allianz will have to consider the period for lost rent 
and in doing that it will have to look beyond  the policy  because  arguably its failure to settle 
the claim will have caused delays to the repairs which will likely  have had a
knock-on effect  on Mr and Mrs Ps ability to re-let the property.
Im not going  to award compensation here. This was a let property and the brokers  have 
handled the claim on behalf  the policyholder. I think there likely has been  some frustration at 
the claim not being covered but if this had been handled properly by Allianz it may well be 
that settlement  might  have been  fairly declined. I also think it would always  have taken a little 
while for the claim to have  progressed as I cant see that an earlier  request for the police 
report would  have likely avoided the delays that have occurred in obtaining it since it was 
asked for.
Mr and Mrs P said they were happy with my decision. But they wanted to know  if council 
tax costs theyd incurred when the repair exemption ran out would be considered as part 
of the lost rent claim. They also provided  an update  they said the repairs had been  
completed and the property sold,  rather  than re-let. They provided copies of their repair 
invoices and details  about the property sale.
In response to my provisional decision Allianz set out to Mr and Mrs P what  it was 
prepared to pay in settlement  of the claim. It said the only repairs necessary in respect  of 
Ref: DRN61181004malicious damage was some re-plastering and repair  of the walls.  It said it hadnt seen 
Mr and Mrs Ps cost for this work.  It felt it would only have taken three months  at most, so 
said it would  only pay three months lost rent  £2,100. It accepted  the total of
Mr and Mrs Ps boarding up costs at £1,120.
Regarding the theft claim Allianz said it had seen an invoice  for a new heating system, 
including radiators. The price of this was £4,820.00. It said it didnt think radiators had 
been stolen or needed  replacing,  so it would only pay £3,000.
Given the new information I issued some further findings. The result of those findings  was 
that I felt Allianz  should make some  payments  to Mr and Mrs P; boarding up costs 
(£1,120), heating  system  (£4,820), lost rent (£14,000) and an amount equivalent to a 
number of receipts Mr and Mrs P had provided  showing the cost of work theyd carried  
out. Further, if appropriate proof  was shown, an amount for council tax. But I said £200 
could be deducted  from the amount owed to account  for two excesses. My full further 
provisional findings were:
Ive copied my provisional findings above, but clearly Allianz must have missed what
I said about how it reasonably needs to settle this claim. Ive re-copied some  key parts  
here and added some emphasis:
In essence I think Allianz has acted too late to be able to fairly  and reasonably  decline 
liability for any part of this loss Mr and Mrs P have provided some  46 photos of 
damage. Allianz will have  to settle based on those, regardless of anything being  included 
in the improvement notice. The theft of the boiler has been quantified by an estimate  for 
replacement and repair of the system (radiators were taken off the walls and some  
pipework stolen).
In relation to both its consideration  of the malicious  damage and damage caused by or 
during a theft, Allianz has said it wont cover the cost of any repairs  likely necessary  due 
to the improvement notice. Nothing  Allianz has said following my provisional decision 
makes me think my original finding in this respect   as repeated immediately above this 
paragraph  were unfair or unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs P have  done all the work necessary at the property. Theyve  provided  all their 
invoices/receipts and these have been  shared with Allianz. I dont have  a total for those 
invoices but I note that Allianz hasnt chosen to dispute any of them.  Or shown that they 
relate to work other than identified  in the photos.  So Im going to require it to reimburse the 
total sum shown on each  and every invoice/receipt, plus interest*  from the date each amount 
was paid.
Regarding the central heating system, the boiler and copper pipes were stolen. The 
radiators, as I understand it, were left behind. Whilst Allianz has said it hasnt seen 
evidence to show these  couldnt be refitted, I think the invoice of replacement  is sufficient 
evidence of that. Because of Allianz unfair decline  Mr and Mrs P were left in a position of 
having to find funds to carry out repairs themselves and of being without any rental  
income whilst  trying  to do that. I dont  think theyd have gone to any more expense  than 
they reasonably  needed  to.
Im also aware that the state of the radiators  was likely compromised by the theft of piping 
that occurred  and I think it would probably have been risky to attempt to reinstall  these 
when setting up the new boiler.  On balance Im not minded to find Allianz  can fairly deduct 
Ref: DRN61181005for the radiators. If Allianz had wanted  better  control over costs  it shouldnt have unfairly 
declined the claim  when it did. I think it reasonably has to pay the full amount for the 
replacement heating system, £4,820.00, plus interest*  from the date this sum was paid 
until settlement is made.
Turning to lost rent. If Allianz had handled  this correctly at the outset, including  making  a 
reasonable settlement for the claim within a reasonable period, settling the rent part based 
on an estimate of how long repairs would likely take may have been fair. But not in a 
situation like the one we have here, where  the claim repairs couldnt progress because  
Allianz unfairly and unreasonable declined the claim. In this instance I think  Allianz  fairly  
has to reimburse all rent lost up until the house  should reasonably have  been  re-let 
following the repairs that Mr and Mr P actually carried out. Given the house wasnt actually  
re-let Ive then considered  what  I think that period should have been.
I see Mr and Mrs P marketed the house  for sale on 24 January  2019.  I think its fair to say 
that all necessary repairs likely completed shortly  before that, I cant see any reason why 
thered have been any delay. So I think it is also fair to say then that if theyd been going 
to re-let the property  Mr and Mrs P would have placed the house  back on the letting 
market around the same  time. I think,  using a very general rule of thumb, it could probably 
have been re-let within about  a month.  Therefore, Im going  to require Allianz to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs P for the rent they should have  received  up until the end of February  2019.
According to Allianz  recent offer the monthly rent was £700 (it offered £2,100.00 for three 
months). Allianz recorded that the last time rent was received was June 2017 and, in the 
early stages of the claim, Allianz offer to pay lost rent, was based on that June date. As
I said provisionally, its not fair for Allianz  to seek to go back  on its early  acceptance  of the 
claim. Therefore, Allianz must now pay Mr and Mrs P twenty-months  of rental income. 
That is for the period July 2017 to February  2019  inclusive. At £700 a month that equates  
to £14,000. On each monthly amount of £700 Allianz will have to add interest* from the 
date each months rent shouldve been  received  until settlement is made.
If Mr and Mrs P began having to pay council tax before the property should have been
re-let, then Ill likely make Allianz reimburse this cost too. Also plus interest* from the date 
Mr and Mrs P paid any sum to the council and until settlement  is made. I say this as
I accept they wouldnt  have been liable  for the tax on the property if it had been let.
I know Mr and Mrs P have  asked that Allianz pay for their lost rent until the property sold in 
June 2019. I dont think that would  be fair. The only reason they werent  achieving  rental 
income in March 2019, through to June 2019  was because they had chosen to sell rather 
than re-let the property. I understand they chose to sell because they werent prepared to let 
the property again following the incidents that had led to the claims. So the rental  loss due to 
the property being sold wasnt something Allianz caused.
I remain of the view that compensation isnt fairly or reasonably due in this instance.  
Thats for the reasons Ive stated provisionally.
Finally, I need to mention the policy excess. There are two heads  of claim here; malicious  
damage and theft. Im going to allow Allianz  to deduct two policy  excesses, one for each 
head of claim. That is £200 in total,  so Ill add an award that allows  Allianz to withhold
£200 from the total of all the settlements Ive said it now has to make.
Mr and Mrs P said they were happy with my findings. Allianz  made no objection to 
anything Id said and said it would pay Mr and Mrs P a blanket amount of £25,000 to settle  
Ref: DRN61181006matters. The offer was put to Mr and Mr P, and having noted  that my quantified awards 
totalled nearly £20,000 even before the receipts for works were accounted for, they said 
this wasnt enough.  They reviewed matters with their accountant and said their total costs  
were around  £50,000. Allianz was sent details of their response.
Allianz said it wasnt minded to pay anything more than what  it had offered. In fact, it said,  
it disputed nearly every  amount Id said it should  pay. Although it didnt comment at all on 
the receipts for work, or question any figure within them. It felt the most it could 
reasonably be said to owe Mr and Mrs P was £2,000. 
As the parties are still unable to reach  an amicable conclusion to this matter, the 
complaint has been returned to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so  and having considered Allianz  recent objections  to my findings  Im 
not minded to change what I said in either my provisional or my further  provisional  
findings, or amend any of the awards I suggested  making. 
To clarify  I said provisionally (and Id remind Allianz it accepted  my provisional  findings  
and began to look to settle  the claims), and reiterated in my further provisional finding:
In essence I think Allianz has acted too late to be able to fairly  and reasonably  decline 
liability for any part of this loss Mr and Mrs P have provided some  46 photos of 
damage. Allianz will have  to settle based on those, regardless of anything being  included 
in the improvement notice.
Further, Allianz, following  my provisional  decision offered  £735  in relation to boarding  up 
costs. Our investigator sent it evidence of the total costs and, before my further provisional 
decision was issued,  Allianz accepted liability for them. 
Therefore, Allianz  recent objections about whether any more than £210 of the boarding 
up costs were reasonable, whether  it should  have liability for lost rent and its request to 
deduct an amount  for cleaning it undertook at the start of the claim before Mr and Mrs P 
told it about the improvement notice, have no bearing on the awards Ive suggested. 
Essentially the matter  has moved  on and the comments dont go the heart of the original 
findings that led me to conclude Allianz cant decline  any part of the loss as evidenced  by 
Mr and Mrs Ps photos. 
I also said provisionally: 
The theft of the boiler has been  quantified  by an estimate for replacement  and repair  of 
the system (radiators  were taken off the walls and some pipework stolen).
And in my further provisional findings I explained why I felt settlement for the the heating  
system as a whole was fairly and reasonably due from Allianz.  So, Im unsure why Allianz 
has now said it has never been presented with substantiation or rationale  for this award.
Ref: DRN61181007I havent seen  anything from Allianz  in direct reference to the photos  I said the claim 
should be assessed against,  or any comment on the receipts  Mr and Mrs P provided. 
I know theyd like the receipts to be quantified  with an exact  award for them being made 
by me here. But assessing the detail  within those receipts, and deciding if their content  
reflects work that was necessary to repair the damage as evidenced by the photos they 
provided to support their claim, is something  Allianz has to do. If Allianz  does that and 
they are unhappy  with any amount  it determines they are due, this service  can then 
consider any complaint  about the quantum of the figure offered. We cant do that though  
until Allianz has carried out an assessment, and it isnt obliged to do that unless or until 
my final decision (saying  that is what it has to do) is accepted by Mr and Mrs P.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs P, less £200 to 
account for two excess payments:
 A sum equivalent  to the total of all of their invoices and receipts relating to work 
necessary to repair damage as evidenced  in the photos, as provided to us and shared 
with it (but not including  the boarding up or heating system invoices).  To each  sum that 
makes up the total of all those invoices and receipts, interest* will have to be added from 
the date each cost was incurred until settlement is made.
 £1,120.00  for the boarding up invoices, plus interest* on each amount that makes up 
this figure  from the date it was paid until settlement is made.
 £4,820 for the heating system replacement, plus interest* from the date the cost was 
incurred until settlement is made.
 £14,000 for lost rent for the period July 2017  to February 2019 inclusive, plus 
interest* on each monthly amount of £700  from the date each month the rent should have 
been received  by Mr and Mrs P.
 If shown, an amount to reimburse council tax charged to Mr and Mrs P before the 
end of February 2019, plus interest* on any incurred amount from the date it was paid 
until settlement is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Allianz  Insurance  
Plc considers  that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs P, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6118100