K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The claim is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mr T took out in 2004 when 
he was in a store. The PPI covered Mr T if he couldnt work  because of accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Its been agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that Mr T 
wouldnt have been able to claim under the terms of the policy because he was working less 
than 16 hours a week.
FICL didnt  agree saying, in summary,  that theres no evidence that Mr T was working less 
than 16 hours a week and that he didnt tick that box when he completed its complaint 
questionnaire.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
In accordance with FICLs policy terms, Mr T needed to be working for at least 16 hours a 
week in order to be eligible for the policy. Hes told us that he was working less than that. He 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence, which isnt surprising given the time thats passed. 
But, taking  into account Mr Ts age when he made the application and the conversation  he 
had with our adjudicator, I find what hes told us to be plausible.  Ive considered that Mr T 
didnt select the working fewer than 16 hours option on the PPI complaint questionnaire 
form - he ticked the employed  box. But this doesnt  make  a difference  to my conclusion  I 
think this was most likely  due to an oversight either by Mr T or his representative. 
As Ive concluded that in all likelihood Mr T was working less than 16 hours a week,  I find he 
wasnt eligible for the PPI.
FICL had to give Mr T enough clear information about the PPIs requirements. This took 
place a long time ago and theres no record of what was said.  But in all likelihood  FICL didnt 
clearly highlight that Mr T needed  to be working  more than 16 hours to be eligible for the 
policy. I say this because  if Mr T had been properly told about the PPI he wouldve  realised  
he wasnt eligible for it.
So I think he did lose out - I dont think Mr T wouldve wanted to take and then pay for a 
policy that he wasnt eligible for.
Ref: DRN69769012putting things right
FICL should put Mr T in the financial  position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
A. Pay Mr T the amount he paid each month  for the PPI.
B. Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year. 
C. If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
D. If the lender  has already repaid any commission amount to Mr T that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax FICL  have taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Financial Insurance Company Limited 
should pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6976901