K820x#14Complaint
Mr L complains  Nationwide  Building  Society failed to refund  him a large amount of 
transactions he says were  the result  of a fraud made  against him.
Background
Mr L has a current account  with Nationwide. He went abroad  on holiday in April 2018. During 
his time away he made four separate visits to a bar, and 33 payments were debited  from his 
account, totalling nearly £31,000.
Mr L first visited the bar on 14 April 2018. He tried to make several payments which were 
declined. He contacted Nationwide and confirmed he wanted to make the payments. On his 
third visit to the bar Nationwide blocked  his card again, on two separate occasions  around  
half past midnight  and shortly after 1:00 am on 21 April 2018.  Mr L rang them both times and 
confirmed payment amounts of £438.52 and £588.96 respectively.  He told them  he found 
them blocking his card embarrassing.
On the morning of 23 April 2018,  a balance enquiry at an ATM was made and the next day 
Mr L visited the bar again, when  further  payments were made. Two further balance  enquiries 
were made at an ATM on 27 April 2018.
Mr L admits making payments to the bar, he says he didnt agree to pay many of the 
amounts he was charged. He says he was defrauded, and suspects the merchant  secretly  
charged much higher  amounts  when he made  a payment, or they took and replaced his card 
to make payments  without  his knowledge. He says the bar had a maximum £120 per hour 
charge for some of the services it provided, so it wasnt possible for him to have spent so 
much during  his time there.
Mr L says he didnt  see the pending transactions on his account on 23 April 2018 when a 
balance enquiry was made, so didnt know anything was wrong. And this is why he visited  
the bar again  after much of his funds had already  been spent. Hes sent in media articles 
which discuss the arrest  of owners of a bar in the area he stayed.  The articles say customers 
were drugged and the cost of purchases  were increased without their knowledge. Mr L says 
this is the same bar he went to and suggests  he fell victim to the same or a similar fraud.
Nationwide say Mr L authorised the payments. Their records show the correct  chip and PIN 
was used, and each time Mr L rang after they blocked his card,  he confirmed the payments 
which had been  blocked. They also say Mr L took until 12 June 2018 to raise a complaint 
with them,  which was some time after the last transaction  made to the bar. Mr L, however, 
says he complained earlier than this, as he was trying to resolve the issue at a Nationwide 
branch.
Our investigator decided  not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.  In summary they found:
-The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) are relevant to the complaint. They  
require Nationwide  to show that all the payments Mr L disputes were  authenticated   
which in this case means demonstrating  Mr Ls card and PIN were used to process 
the payments.  Nationwides records  show the chip in Mr Ls card was read and the 
correct PIN entered for each payment, so they were  authenticated.
Ref: DRN67639562-The PSRs also require Nationwide to refund any payments Mr L didnt authorise.  But 
it appears Mr L gave his consent  for each payment to be made.  He doesnt deny 
making payments  using  his chip and PIN but says he didnt agree to pay many of the 
large sums that were debited. Its possible someone couldve noted his PIN and 
taken and replaced his card numerous times to make payments. But this was 
unlikely, as it wouldve  increased  the likelihood  of being caught  in the act. 
-Mr L more likely entered his PIN to make  the payments or he allowed someone else 
to do so on his behalf. And even if the merchant inflated his bills without his 
knowledge, this wouldnt mean  the payments werent authorised under the PSRs.
-Mr L ought to have been aware  of how much  had been spent on his account the 
morning of 23 April 2018 when he made  a balance enquiry. His balance  wouldve 
shown it was significantly reduced  at that time.  So, if hed not realised how much  had 
been spent up to that point, its likely  hed have contacted Nationwide sooner than he 
did.
Mr L strongly disagrees with the investigators  findings. He says he couldnt possibly have 
spent the sums that left his account,  considering how frequent the payments were and the 
hourly charge  for services  was meant  to be £120.  He reiterates that the owners of the bar 
were arrested for defrauding their customers.
Mr Ls sister who represents him in this complaint has asked  us to consider that Mr L 
sometimes has difficulty comprehending things and their late mother used to help him 
manage his finances  before her sudden  passing. She also says the payments cant  be 
considered authorised if Mr L didnt know how much was being taken out of his account.
Mr L hasnt accepted the answer provided by the investigator, so the complaint has been  
passed to me to make a final decision on.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint for broadly  similar  reasons to those given by the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
The PSRs  2017  are relevant to Mr Ls complaint, as they define Nationwides  responsibility 
in relation to payments he disputes  making.  In general, the regulations  require Nationwide to 
refund Mr L payments he didnt authorise. So, I think its important to define  more precisely 
what authorisation means in terms of Nationwides liability.
A payment is considered  authorised if Mr L gave his consent for a payment to be made, 
irrespective of the amount that was actually taken. So, to be clear,  Mr L doesnt need to have  
given his consent to pay the exact sums which debited his account  for those payments to be 
authorised. It follows then that Nationwide arent  responsible  for any loss Mr L suffered if 
each time he went to make a payment the merchant secretly increased how much it was 
charging him.
Ref: DRN67639563Listening to the calls Mr L had with Nationwide, I think its clear he gave his consent to make 
payments at the bar. The phone line was poor,  and it sounds as though  Mr L was under the 
influence of something, whether that was alcohol or another substance. I say this because  
Mr L told Nationwide he was very drunk, and hes also suggested  he couldve been plied 
with a drug in line with the news articles he sent in. What is clear  during these calls is his 
insistence that he wanted to make payments and he was embarrassed  his card was being 
blocked. He also emphasised there was a lot of money in his account.
Its possible employees of the bar took and replaced  his card without his knowledge.  But I 
agree with the investigator that considering  the number of transactions which took place, this 
wouldve represented a substantial risk. So, on balance I dont think this is the most  likely 
explanation of how the sums came to be debited from his account.
Ive also considered that Mr L has described his holiday  as a lads holiday when speaking to 
Nationwide, so while I still think the amounts leaving his account were  very large, its 
possible they couldve represented the cost of services provided  to multiple persons and not 
just himself. This could  also explain the frequency of purchases that were made.
Mr L may have been the victim of a merchant secretly inflating the cost of their services 
when he went to make a payment. And if this happened, he has my sincere sympathies. Ive 
taken on board what hes said about  his circumstances  at that time, particularly the loss of 
his mother, which I was very sorry to hear about.  So, I can understand how this mustve  
been a very difficult  time for him. But I dont think the financial loss he may have suffered 
due to the merchants actions lies with Nationwide  to put right.  As Ive explained under the 
PSRs which  define  Nationwides  liability, I think the payments  were  authorised.
Ive gone on to consider whether Nationwide shouldve  done anything more  when  the 
transactions were  occurring, considering  their responsibility to monitor accounts in order  to 
prevent fraud. But I see they did block Mr Ls card, and he actively  contacted them  on three  
separate occasions to confirm payments.  
He contacted them twice on 21 April 2018,  when most  of the payments were made, and 
confirmed payments for £438.52 and £588.96,  which by themselves  arent  small sums. And 
on those calls he emphasised strongly  that he didnt want his card blocked. So, in this 
context, although  later payments were for higher amounts, I think  Nationwide fulfilled their 
responsibility towards him.
Mr L says he only became aware of how much was paid out of his account when his card 
was declined, presumably after he last visited the bar. Nationwides records  show  he 
checked his balance on 23 April 2018  before his last visit. He says at that time his balance 
still showed a large  amount available and didnt  reflect what  had been spent. Although  I find 
it unusual the balance wouldnt have reflected the payments  that had left his account some 
48 hours after the last payment was made, I recognise its possible it didnt. Either  way, I 
havent found it necessary to make a finding on this point.
Mr Ls sister asserts  Mr L has trouble  understanding certain things,  and their late mother had 
previously helped him manage  his finances.  Shes also highlighted how what happened has 
affected him very badly. Ive taken very seriously  what shes said, and Ive no reason to 
doubt Mr L may be more  vulnerable to fraudsters  and that the loss of these funds has 
impacted his life considerably.  But I cant hold Nationwide responsible  simply because  Mr L 
may have  been  defrauded by unsavoury individuals taking advantage of him. Neither can I 
see that Nationwide were made aware  of the extent of Mr Ls vulnerability for them to have 
gone against his insistence not to block his card. 
Ref: DRN67639564My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 17 February  2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6763956