K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Best Risk Management & Financial Service  Limited mis-sold her an 
unemployment insurance policy. 
background
In 2017, Mrs L took out an unemployment  insurance  policy  with an insurer (that Ill call 
Insurer A). The policy was arranged through Best Risk. The aim of the policy was to pay a 
monthly benefit of £2,000 in the event Mrs L became involuntarily unemployed.
Mrs L was made redundant from her employed  occupation and made a claim.  Insurer A 
turned down the claim, because Mrs L remained a registered partner of a limited liability 
partnership (LLP) which was still trading. Insurer A said that in order for her to make  a 
successful claim, the LLP would need  to cease to trade. Mrs L explained she didnt work for 
the LLP, as it is her husbands business and she is a registered partner in name only.  
Despite this, Insurer A maintained its decision to decline her claim.
Mrs L therefore complained to Best Risk about the sale of the policy.  She said Best Risk 
hadnt asked her if she was a partner in a business,  and so she hadnt  known that in order  to 
make a successful claim, shed have to lose both her employed role and the LLP would  also 
need to stop trading. 
Best Risk said that Mrs L didnt mention  that she was a partner in an LLP. It therefore didnt 
think the policy had been mis-sold. Unhappy with Best Risks response, Mrs L brought  a 
complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said Best Risk hadnt given 
Mrs L any advice. Although he recognised Mrs L didnt think  the application form questions 
were wide enough,  he said that the questions were asked by the insurer  rather than Best 
Risk. 
Mrs L has asked for an ombudsmans decision, therefore the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Best Risk has explained it doesnt give advice or recommendations,  and instead provides 
information from a limited range of insurers that it has access to. 
Best Risk says that within the initial telephone calls, it asked Mrs Ls employment status and 
she confirmed that she was in a full-time permanent employed position. It argues that Mrs L 
had plenty of opportunity  to make it aware that she was a partner in an LLP, but she didnt 
do so. 
However, Mrs L makes the point  that she was insuring her employed  role and didnt realise 
she had to tell Best Risk that she was a partner in an LLP because  it didnt  ask about this. 
She explains (and her accountant confirms)  that she has never received an income from the 
LLP and is only recorded  as a partner for compliance purposes  with Companies House. 
Ref: DRN64339452Ive therefore  listened  to the relevant calls. 
Mrs Ls husband called Best Risk and explained his wife wanted to take out unemployment 
cover. Best Risk asked what industry Mrs L was in, and her husband confirmed the industry.  
Best Risk asked who she worked for and her occupation, and her husband  confirmed the 
name of the company she worked for, and her job title. Based on this information,  Best Risk 
discussed the different cover options  available to Mrs L with both her and her husband. 
There was a further phone conversation that took place, where Best Risk went  through 
Insurer As application questions with Mrs L. Best Risk says that the relevant eligibility  
questions regarding Mrs Ls employment status were asked during this call. However, 
unfortunately Best Risk hasnt been  able to provide us with a copy  of that call recording, so I 
cant take this into consideration. 
Whilst I can appreciate Mrs Ls point that she didnt realise being a partner in an LLP was 
relevant, I dont think Best Risk was at fault for not specifically asking her about this. Best 
Risk was required to take reasonable steps  to ensure that Mrs L bought a policy under which 
she was eligible to claim benefits, and I think it did this by establishing that Mrs L was 
employed. 
If Mrs L had let Best Risk know  that she was also a partner in an LLP, it could have 
confirmed that Insurer  A would also consider  her self-employed and a claim would only be 
payable if her employment ended and the LLP ceased to trade. However, as Mrs L didnt 
make Best Risk aware  that she was in a partnership, it had no reason to bring this to her 
attention. However,  it did provide her with the policy documents which confirmed Insurer As 
definition of self-employed, and also confirmed a claim would only be paid if a self-employed  
persons business  ceased  to trade. 
I therefore dont  find that the policy was mis-sold.
Mrs L has also made a complaint about  Insurer As decision to decline her claim. Ive 
considered Mrs Ls concerns about this under a separate  complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6433945