K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by a solicitor acting  on behalf of a limited  company (Ill call B). Its 
said that AXA Insurance Plc unfairly voided  a commercial buildings insurance policy  and 
refused to pay a fire damage  claim.
background
I set out the background  and my provisional  findings in a provisional decision last month, 
and which  is attached to this decision.
B, through its solicitor, disagreed with my findings. Ive considered the reply and its 
attachments in full, but a summary of the response is that the effect of the provisional 
decision is an alleged verbal  representation made prior to policy inception takes priority over 
a subsequent written  statement of facts.  Any such finding flies totally in the face of contract 
law, is wrong and isnt in the interests of fairness and justice.
Other points the solicitor has made Ive summarised as;
If AXA wanted to know  about the answers  to questions asked in the fact find, then 
that should have been included in the Statement of Fact
Does the underwriting agreement mirror the wording of the question  in the fact find?
oIf it doesnt then how can there  be inducement
Mr H isnt a sophisticated businessman  and being a commercial  landlord was all new 
terrain for him. He is not at all experienced in business insurance matters  and left 
that to his brokers. And while  a lovely gentleman he is not particularly well educated 
or comfortable dealing with complex matters and struggles to understand complex  
commercial detail.  The ombudsman  should  treat Mr H as a consumer for the 
purposes of this complaint.
As there  was no call recording Mr H should be given the benefit of the doubt.
AXA shouldnt be allowed to rely on the question  in the fact find (if actually  asked but 
which Mr H denies  it was).
The solicitor disputes that AXA is entitled  to rely on the verbal answers in the fact find 
where AXA sought to limit the ambit of disclosure in a written statement of fact.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Bs solicitor has said but Im not persuaded to change my 
decision.
In reviewing all the information  again,  I come back to the first related question  asked during 
the fact find call which was about whether any of the named directors had, either personally 
or in connection with any business in which theyd been involved;
ever been declared bankrupt  or the subject of insolvency, winding up or the director 
or partner of a company that had went into liquidation/administration
The recorded answer to this was no and I remain satisfied the question was asked and 
answered as recorded  in the fact find. The absence of a call recording doesnt persuade me 
that its fair to give Mr H the benefit  of the doubt. His answer  was incorrect  as a named 
Ref: DRN68308982director had indeed been the director of a company that had gone into liquidation.  But if Mr H 
had answered  this correctly, the intermediary had no permission, under its agreement with 
AXA, to offer a policy and had to refer to AXA. And only if AXA would have underwritten  the 
policy would the intermediary have been able to formerly offer terms and a statement of fact. 
So, the statement  of fact was issued, cover  offered and renewed, because Mr H had given 
an incorrect answer. 
The agreement mentioned is not the basis upon which  the decision to underwrite  by AXA is 
made. The agreement  sets out certain  procedures and limitations  binding  on the 
intermediary. The issue of the director of a liquidated business  was a matter  for AXA to 
consider and make an underwriting  decision  on. But AXA could only do that if the 
intermediary referred the matter. And the matter wasnt referred because Mr H didnt give 
correct information  to the intermediary so that it could  be referred.
The correct  information  would have led to the intermediary referring the matter to AXA and 
so the next issue  is what  AXA would have  done  had it known the correct information   was it 
induced into offering a policy on terms it wouldnt have or at all? As stated  in my provisional 
decision, AXA says it would never  have  provided the policy  had the directors  involvement  
with a liquidated company  been disclosed, particularly given the significant financial 
circumstances of that company. Indeed, in a letter to the solicitors in September  2015  AXA 
said that had correct answers been  given to the intermediary it would have referred the 
matter to AXA. And the letter  continues,  AXA  would of course have refused cover if the 
matter had been referred to them. AXA has confirmed again that it wouldnt have offered a 
policy. 
Ive considered what the solicitor says about the statement of fact superseding the question  
asked. In determining  whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of this complaint, it 
would be remiss and unreasonable for me to ignore what was asked  of Mr H. I am satisfied  
the intermediary asked him a clear question about the directors involvement  in a liquidated 
company. And Im satisfied that Mr H gave  incorrect information  in response.  Giving  correct 
information from the outset was and is important, and it was only because of the incorrect 
information Mr H gave  to the intermediary that further steps occurred including  the offer of a 
policy. 
Its also relevant that sales process  wasnt simply limited to the statement  of fact  there  had 
been a person to person  telecommunication in advance, and which was the catalyst  for the 
statement of fact to be sent. Ill say again, had the incorrect information not have been given 
to the intermediary the statement of fact wouldnt have been  sent or the policy offered. The 
incorrect information induced the offer of a policy  to cover B, that AXA wouldnt have made 
had Mr H given correct  information.
Ive balanced  carefully all the information weve been given in reaching an outcome that in 
my opinion is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. B as a commercial  entity  isnt one 
in my opinion that should be treated as a consumer  the issue isnt so much  about Mr H as 
he was one of a number of people  able to represent  the interests of B as a company. He 
was an experienced company secretary and Ive considered the solicitors comments that he 
isnt well-educated or comfortable dealing  with complex matters  and struggles to understand 
complex commercial detail. The intermediary wasnt to know that and whether he could 
effectively perform the role of company secretary is a matter for B and not the intermediary 
or AXA. Mr H represented  Bs interests and gave incorrect  information  to a question  Im 
satisfied was sufficiently  clear. 
Ref: DRN68308983Should B wish to pursue a purist  contract  law case in the interests of justice  then that is 
something which can be done in court, subject to B not accepting  this final decision and any 
limitation period  which B may wish to seek advice on from its solicitor. 
My determination is that what AXA has done in voiding  Bs policy  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68308984Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
This complaint is brought by a solicitor  acting on behalf of a limited company  (Ill call B). Its said that 
AXA Insurance Plc voided a commercial buildings insurance policy and refused to pay a fire damage 
claim.
background
There is a detailed  background  to this complaint involving issues at the point of sale and matters 
relevant to a substantial  fire claim. I wont go into all the details  as both parties are familiar with these. 
First, I will focus on two main  issues (albeit there are others) that AXA based its decision to void Bs 
policy, before,  if appropriate, looking at the claim  related issues.
The policy began in 2014 and was taken out through an insurance intermediary during a phone  call 
with Bs company secretary. The intermediary had delegated authority  from AXA to make some 
limited underwriting decisions. During the call a fact find document was completed by the 
intermediary, which recorded questions and answers. This showed the details of three directors along 
with supplementary  questions and answers about whether any of the named  directors had, either  
personally or in connection with any business in which  theyd been involved;
ever been  declared bankrupt or the subject of insolvency, winding up or the director or partner 
of a company that had went into liquidation/administration, or within  6 months of resigning 
from such a position there had been liquidation/administration.
ever declined  or refused insurance, had insurance  cancelled or subject to special terms 
The answers  to both questions were No.
AXA provided  information that showed the answers  were incorrect.  One of the named people was the 
director of a company that had gone into voluntary  liquidation in 2006.  In addition,  insurance  cover 
had been refused for the property in question in 2010  and 2014 because  of risk surveys.
Our investigator said the questions asked were clear and she was satisfied AXA had shown  the 
answers to be incorrect. She wasnt persuaded by the submission that the information wasnt 
immediately available to Bs secretary  when he bought the policy,  as hed been involved with B since 
2007. And he was present  on-site in 2014 when the risks were  identified and discussed.
The investigator also pointed  out that AXA had sent information to show that had the correct 
information been provided the intermediary would  not have had authority to offer the insurance policy 
at all, and if it had been  referred to AXA then AXA wouldnt have agreed to underwrite a policy for B. 
She was satisfied that AXA had acted fairly by voiding the policy and not considering the claim.
Bs solicitor said the documentation  AXA relied on was not reflective  of what Bs secretary  was asked 
and in fact was asked about personal  insolvencies. The solicitor  relied on a statement of fact sent to B 
and case law that had dealt with this issue  in a different  case against AXA. The solicitors  view was 
that there hadnt been a misrepresentation.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into account 
relevant law and regulations,  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Ref: DRN68308985The first issue  is whether  AXA was entitled to void Bs policy. If it was, then its not necessary to 
consider the claim issues because the policy  would  never had existed.
Voiding of the policy
The commercial policy was taken out in 2014 and renewed in 2015   Im mindful that relevant law is 
found in the Marine Insurance Act 1906 (the Act). The relevant part concerns  what  obligations there 
were on B when discussing the purchase of the policy. In summary, the Act placed a duty of utmost 
good faith on the parties  insured parties were  required  to disclose every circumstance they knew, 
or should have known,  which would  influence an insurer in deciding whether to underwrite a risk or 
what premium  to charge.
I have seen the fact find documents from the sale in 2014 and renewal in 2015. I accept  these  as the 
most contemporaneous evidence  of what happened at the time  they have details  of what took place 
in terms of the questions asked and the answers  given  between the intermediary and the client. I 
appreciate the solicitor for B contends that her client  recalls being  asked a question  that appears in 
the statement of fact and which is different  from the fact find. But I am most persuaded  by the 
contents of the fact finds given  the contemporaneous nature of what  the documents  represent.
I am satisfied  on the balance of probabilities the questions asked were  those in the fact find. The 
questions are;
have  you or any named person mentioned  and/or any partner(s) or any directors(s) either 
personally or in connection with any business in which  you/they have been involved:
oEver been declared bankrupt  or are the subject  of any bankruptcy  proceeding,  or any 
voluntary or mandatory  insolvency,  winding up procedures,  or being a director or 
partner of a company  that went into liquidation/administration  or within 6 months of 
resigning from such a position subsequently went into liquidation/administrations? 
[my emphasis]
oThe answer  given was no.
oEver being declined or refused insurance cover or had any cover cancelled or subject 
to special  terms in respect to any covers to which the insurance relates? 
oThe answer  given was no  other than product specifics  i.e. alarm conditions 
ect(sic).
 
The company secretary who took out the policy  is an experienced one having been appointed in 2007 
and also appointed to a subsidiary company of B Ill call Q. I note that he claimed to be a director of 
the company at the fact find, which is not correct  given  he was company secretary. 
In relation to the bankruptcy and liquidation  question the correct  answer should have been yes. One 
of the directors had previously been the director of a company that had gone into liquidation in late 
2006 with a significant deficiency  against  creditors. The position of company secretary  is a significant  
one in terms  of corporate governance. As secretary, Im satisfied he was, or at least should have 
been aware  of the directors previous corporate history,  particularly given the director had been 
appointed around three years earlier and in the tenure of the company secretary. In such 
circumstances that information should have been disclosed during  the fact find to the question asked.  
The fact that questions related to bankruptcy, insolvency and liquidation personally and corporately of 
directors, I am satisfied the company secretary was aware (or should have been) the directors 
circumstances would influence  the insurers decision whether to underwrite a risk or what premium to 
charge.
AXA says it would never  have  provided the policy had the directors involvement with a liquidated  
company been disclosed,  particularly given the significant  financial circumstances of that company.  I 
have seen information from AXA about  the agreement with the intermediary from which B bought the 
Ref: DRN68308986policy. Its worth noting  that the intermediary had delegated authority to sell the policy but within 
confines of an underwriting agreement  with AXA.  This is a commercially sensitive  document and so it 
hasnt been made available to B, but I have considered it in full. Had the correct answer  been given  
the intermediary  had no permission  to provide  the policy  and would  have had to refer the matter to 
AXA before any offer of proposal.  This is not an unusual underwriting decision.
I have carefully considered  the solicitors  representations about the statement  of fact sent to B after 
the initial  sales call together with a court judgement1 the solicitor relies on. In short, the solicitor  says 
the statement of fact AXA sent contains a question/statement that a court has already  interpreted  as 
limiting the scope of bankruptcy  and insolvency to directors  in a personal capacity. And because  of 
this, Bs company secretary did not make a misrepresentation about  the director who had been in 
position at the time his previous company  went into liquidation.
The case relied on, in my view,  is clearly  distinguishable from this current complaint. At paragraph 2 
the judge  outlines the scope  of the issue as;
Issues have arisen between the parties as to the accuracy of answers given by the claimant 
to the defendant on a questionnaire which was part of the proposal for the insurance and as 
to whether the claimant disclosed all material  facts. (my emphasis)
In this complaint the issue arises because of the answers  given verbally by Bs company secretary  to 
questions asked  by the intermediary, as contained in the fact find. The statement of fact reflected 
what was previously discussed during the fact find and led to the intermediary offering  a proposal to B 
for insurance business  with AXA.
While the detail  of the statement of fact didnt reflect in its entirety what  was asked during  the fact find, 
had the correct  information been provided during  the fact find, the intermediary was compelled  by the 
agreement with AXA to refer the matter on. And at this point AXA has said,  and I accept, that it would 
not have offered  a policy. So, the lack of good faith by the company secretary  in making a 
misrepresentation to the intermediary led to a proposal  being offered along with the statement of fact 
when it would  not have  been, but for the incorrect information  being given. 
In summary, Bs company secretary was required to disclose every  circumstance he knew,  or should 
have known, which would  influence an insurer in deciding  whether  to underwrite a risk or what  
premium to charge.  Given  the significance of the company secretary position  in corporate governance 
and, in this case, being a person familiar with buying pervious insurance policies  for B, I am satisfied 
that there was a lack of utmost good faith on Bs behalf by the company  secretary  in the answer he 
gave to the intermediary. As a result, this led to a proposal being offered by the intermediary and the 
statement of fact in circumstances that wouldnt have occurred but for the lack of good faith.  This, in 
turn, induced AXA to underwrite a policy it never  would  have and so Im satisfied it was, in all the 
circumstances, fair and reasonable for AXA to declare  the policy void.
The second  main question in issue concerns being refused insurance  or having special  terms in 
respect to any covers to which the insurance  relates. Given my findings  on the first question  above its 
unnecessary to make  findings  on this second question, and indeed the other matters relevant  to the 
claim, as AXA wouldnt  have offered the policy.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
1 R&R Developments  Limited  v Axa Insurance  UK plc [2009] EWHC 2429 (Ch)
Ref: DRN6830898