K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED, trading as Callcredit  
Limited (Callcredit) are supressing  her credit score and that the score fluctuates without 
reason. She says theyve refused to add a notice of correction (NOC to her file.
background
Miss T says that her credit score  with Callcredit is always either poor or very poor but with 
other credit reference agencies her score is excellent or average. Shes unhappy about her 
Callcredit score because she says, whilst the others  stay stable, Callcredits doesnt. And 
she says the fluctuations  happen when nothing at all has changed in her credit 
circumstances. Shes  also unhappy that Callcredit  are offering a service whereby  she can 
pay to have her credit  score improved: she says this is unfair. Miss T wants  Callcredit  to 
remove the data they hold on her and stop reporting  information in the future.
Miss T says shes tried to fix this with Callcredit  but it hasnt worked and theyve refused to 
log a NOC on her file. Shes  reported this to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Callcredit say that they take a range  of factors into account when they generate a credit 
score but cant tell Miss T the specific information, that theyve taken into account in her 
case, as the process is commercially sensitive. They say the accuracy of the information  
they provide is paramount  and it wouldnt be fair for them to remove  Miss Ts information as 
to do so may result in her being  refused  credit  or being approved  for credit  that wasnt  
affordable.
They said they werent able to publish the NOC Miss T had asked them to record  as it was 
defamatory but they explained they were  happy to submit  the NOC to the ICO for arbitration.
Miss T was unhappy with their explanation so she referred her complaint to this service  and 
our investigator provided an opinion.  She noted  that Callcredit were offering  a product which 
would teach tips and tricks on how to optimise a credit score.  They werent  offering  a service 
that improved  a rating in return for a payment, so she didnt think they were  doing anything 
wrong.
She explained that Miss Ts credit  score was calculated using algorithms based on a variety  
of factors which may include payment history;  electoral  role information; amounts owed; 
length of credit history; new accounts  opened; searches and the number of accounts in use. 
But she understood that Callcredit couldnt divulge exactly what  was considered in Miss Ts 
case as this would be commercially sensitive. So she didnt think  it would be fair to say that 
Callcredit had done  anything wrong by scoring Miss T differently or by their scores changing 
more frequently  than other credit  bureaus.
She thought  it was for the ICO to decide whether  Callcredit had acted reasonably  in refusing 
to remove Miss Ts information but that they had suggested shed need to contact each of 
the businesses  that provide them with information and tell them she didnt want  it sharing. 
And whilst she understood  this was a frustrating experience for Miss T she didnt think 
Callcredit needed to take any further action.
Ref: DRN62233832But Miss T disagreed. She said other people were having the same  issue with Callcredit  and 
she was particularly disappointed that Callcredit  wouldnt  add her NOC to her file. She 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Miss T so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the credit  score
The scoring model that Callcredit use is commercially sensitive so I cant  ask them to 
provide specific details of exactly  how theyve calculated Miss Ts score as theyd  be 
understandably reluctant to do so. I can understand it may provide  others  with an insight into 
how their system works and therefore  provide an opportunity for data to be manipulated.
Miss T is complaining that Callcredit  are weighing up the same information but coming to a 
different credit rating  than other similar organisations. Im unable  to review the algorithms 
they use, as theyre sensitive, so I cant say if Callcredit are calculating the credit score  
accurately. 
I think its in Callcredits interest  to report data correctly and Miss T doesnt appear to be 
saying the contents of the reports from different agencies are particularly different: just the 
credit score. 
And shes provided a link to online comments where  it appears others are having concerns 
about how low their scores are. So it seems Miss T isnt alone in thinking the score is too low 
and this makes me think its most likely Callcredit  are applying the same algorithms to others 
and are likely to be applying consistent tests; albeit  tests  that produce lower  results.  
I dont therefore  think Ive seen information to suggest Miss T is being  treated unfairly  and 
Im therefore  not persuaded that Callcredit have been unreasonable.
Miss T says her score  with Callcredit varies without any change  in the data being recorded 
but I dont know  all the factors that Callcredit use to assess  creditworthiness  and I think  its 
reasonable to suggest some factors they use may not be contained in the body of the report. 
So I dont  think I have  evidence to suggest this is something theyre doing wrong.
Ref: DRN62233833the service to improve credit scores
I think this relates to a product Callcredit were offering which  provides tips on how to 
optimise a credit score. Thats not the same as improving  it for a fee. It simply helps 
consumers understand  whats  important. So I dont  think Callcredit have done anything 
wrong here.
Notice of Correction
Callcredit have explained  that they consider the notice  of correction Miss T wants them to 
add to her file as defamatory and theyve said that in those circumstances they are allowed 
not to add it in its current form. Theyve  suggested  Miss T modifies it but shes  not been 
willing to do so.
I think its fair for them  to suggest arbitration  through the ICO as I think the ICO are best 
placed to rule on this.
I dont think theyve been unreasonable to refuse to publish  the NOC in its current  form as I 
can understand theyd think the statement defamatory i.e. it refers  to their data being 
horrendously incorrect . So I wont be asking them to make  any changes  although  the ICO 
may do, for different reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6223383