K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains the car he acquired with the benefit of a conditional sale agreement  with 
Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
In June 2015 Mr W acquired a car under a conditional sale agreement  with Moneybarn.  The 
car at this point was under a year old and had done  3,779 miles. It cost £11,695.
Mr W says that problems  with the roof mechanism and the boot lock began within the first 
two months. The motor for the roof was replaced in April 2016 but he feels  its still not as it 
should be, which has restricted its use as a convertible. He says thereve been persistent 
fault with the boot lock.
In May 2017  the clutch was replaced  due to a failed  flywheel. Shortly  after it failed again. Mr 
W says the car had only done 9,000 miles in the interim so he doesnt agree its wear  and 
tear. And he notes  the first clutch last more than 40,000 miles which  shows  its not his 
driving style thats  at fault. Mr W says thereve been a number of other faults, including 
problems with the wiper  blades, the tyres and tracking and shock absorbers. These  have 
been repaired under  warranty but Mr W feels the number and nature of the faults are 
excessive for a car of this age and show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. Hed like it replaced or to be compensated for his trouble and inconvenience.
Moneybarn acknowledged thered  been a number of repairs done  under  warranty  but didnt 
agree the faults had been present at the point of sale.  It said the garage believed  the 
problems with the roof and clutch were due to Mr Ws use of the car, for which  it couldnt  be 
responsible. And although thered been  other problems with the car, these had arisen later 
on in the agreement and as such, should  be seen  as wear and tear not an inherent fault. It 
felt the car had been of satisfactory quality and rejected  Mr Ws complaint.
Our adjudicator said in order to recommend a rejection or replacement  of the car, shed need 
to be satisfied that the car had been  of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale and that the 
issues werent simply wear and tear. Shed taken into account  the cars  mileage, age, faults  
and price in looking  at the quality.
In this case shed  seen a number of invoices from November 2015  through  to August 2018 
detailing the various repairs  and health  checks.  These showed that Mr W had reported 
problems with the roof and boot some  four or five months  after hed acquired the car. These 
had been repaired  under warranty along with a number of issues that had arisen during the 
next twelve months. However  looking at the nature of the problems she felt they were  wear 
and tear and not unusual for the mileage the car had done.
Shed taken into account the clutch had been replaced in May 2017 and then replaced again 
shortly after.  But at the time of the first replacement the car had done 44,516 miles at this 
point and on that basis, she considered it more probable it was caused by the general  wear 
and tear to be expected of a car of this mileage. And the fact it had had to be replaced again  
shortly after suggested  a faulty repair rather than an inherent fault. Overall our investigator 
didnt agree the car had been of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale and for that 
reason, she wouldnt  be asking Moneybarn to do anything more.
Ref: DRN60973882Mr W disagreed  and maintained his view that a car of this age shouldnt have had as many  
faults as it had unless it was of poor quality.  He said in summary:
. It had gone in for repairs more than 14 times and he felt  the number of faults 
showed the car was substandard;
Hed first raised his concerns within the first two months but the selling garage hadnt  
responded
The first clutch  failed  due to a mechanical  fault and not his driving style. If it was his 
driving that was the issue, then it would have  failed earlier  but it hadnt so it was 
unlikely this was the cause of the second  clutch replacement.
The repairs had been done under warranty but hed still incurred costs and expense 
in having to take time off work  to deal with them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this isnt the decision Mr W was 
hoping for but having done so, I wont be asking Moneybarn  to do anything  more as Ill now 
explain.
Where theres no evidence -or the evidence available is disputed as it is here on some 
points - Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other  words  whats  more  
likely than not to have happened. 
Mr W acquired this car in May 2015 under a conditional sale agreement so the relevant 
legislation in this case is the Sale of Goods Implied Terms Act 1973. This Act says that its 
expected that any goods  supplied by the hirer- in this case  Moneybarn - will be of 
satisfactory quality. That is what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory 
taking account  of the description of the goods, the price and all other relevant 
circumstances. 
For the purposes of the Act, quality includes the state and condition of the goods, their 
fitness for purpose,  safety, durability and freedom  from minor defects. In general its 
considered that faults that develop  within  the first six months are likely to have been there at 
the point of sale but after that its for the consumer to show thats the case.
Ive taken this into account in my decision, along with all the other relevant law and 
regulations, but my role is not to offer a strict legal  interpretation on the law as thats  
something thats better suited to the courts. Instead  Ive gone on to consider whats  fair and 
reasonable in the facts of this case and, in doing so, I may reach  a decision that a court 
would not.
At the time Mr W acquired the car it had done  less than 3,779 miles and was in effect,  new 
so its reasonable  to expect that a car like this would be problem free, even of minor  faults,  
for a reasonable period of time. But in this case Mr W reported a problem with the roof and 
boot lock in November 2015. I note he says they started within  the first two months but the 
first information Ive seen  about any repairs is the invoice of 13 November 2015. On the 
basis that Mr W would have followed up any problems as soon as possible I think its fair to 
take this as the relevant  date. 
Ref: DRN60973883It seems  the garage couldnt find a problem with the roof mechanism at this inspection. But 
in January 2016 Mr W reported similar problems and again in April 2016 when the roof motor 
was replaced. Mr Ws description of the problems with the roof and the boot have been 
consistent throughout so although  the roof motor wasnt replaced until April 2016,  its 
possible, although not certain, that this was the same problem that had been present since  
November.
But even if thats  the case it doesnt  mean  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. It depends 
on the problem  and its impact. In this case the information shows  that once the fault was 
identified it was repaired. I note Mr W says he still feels uncertain about the roof mechanism 
but despite various checks and services in August 2016 and May and September 2017 no 
further similar problems were recorded. Ive seen Mr W says theres been another repair but 
if I look at the invoices I cant see that theres been an ongoing problems  that can be linked 
back to the original fault. If there  was then Id expect it to have been noted at the various 
inspections in 2016 and 2017 but thats  not the case. On what  Ive seen I consider the repair  
in April 2016 was effective so I dont think its necessary or reasonable at this point to ask 
Moneybarn to do anything  more than has already been done in this regard.
I note Mr W says thereve been a number of other problems as shown by the invoices. Ive 
seen these have  been repaired under warranty but I can understand this has been very 
frustrating for Mr W. However I can only hold Moneybarn responsible for faults that were 
present or developing at the point  of sale. The information Ive seen shows the other faults 
occurred after Mr W had had the car for more than twelve months and had done more than 
20,000 miles. 
Its clear Mr W does a significant mileage each year-  roughly twice  the usual average  
mileage- so its not unexpected that faults  will occur over time. Looking  at when these other 
problems arose, what they were  and the mileage  of the car at the time, I think it more likely 
that these were caused by general wear  and tear rather than an inherent  fault with the car. 
And on that basis I cant agree Moneybarn is responsible for these or that they suggest the 
car is fundamentally of poor quality.
I note Mr W feels theres an inherent problem with the clutch. He points to the fact its been 
repaired twice within a short time. But at the time it was first replaced, the car was almost 
two years old and had done  44,519 miles so I consider this was most likely the usual wear 
and tear to be expected of a car of this mileage. And although it then failed again shortly  
after, Id agree with the adjudicator that this is more  likely to be a failed  repair rather than an 
inherent fault. Thats outside the scope of this decision but Mr W may wish to pursue this 
with the repairing garage.
I realise Mr W may be disappointed  by my decision but for the reasons set out above, I do 
not think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Moneybarn to do anything further with regard  
to this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Ref: DRN60973884Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6097388