K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr D says Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays), trading as Egg, mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. Mr D applied  for the credit card and PPI online. There was a 
separate section  for PPI where  Mr D couldve  ticked  a box to say that he did or 
didnt want it. Mr D couldnt  have  progressed through the application without  
choosing one option  and neither was pre-populated. Barclays have provided 
information from his application that shows he chose to take it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr D got the information he needed  to 
decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  And I 
havent seen anything which suggests  the PPI was unaffordable for Mr D. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr D.
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because  when  the policy was 
sold, Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Barclays  didnt tell 
Mr D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has offered  to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including  what he has said about  not knowing 
he had the policy and that he didnt  claim when he was made redundant as a result.  but this 
doesnt change  my decision. If Mr D think he may have missed  out on making a valid claim 
he should contact  Barclays and ask if it is possible his claim could still be considered.
Ref: DRN67215632what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr D any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr D the difference 
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr D 8%* simple  
interest if Mr D paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand that Barclays has already issued 
a cheque to Mr D for this sum. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6721563