K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And BoS said that it didnt think it had 
done anything  wrong in relation to the commission on the policy. But in any event its made  
an offer as if it had offering to pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI.
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Mr H about  
the commission it received - so BoS doesnt  need to pay back  any of the commission  Mr H 
paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has offered  to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI, 
so I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. I say this because  BoS has provided  a copy of Mr Hs credit  card application from 
the time of the sale. Looking at this I can see there is a printed cross in the box: Credit 
Card Repayments Cover  to indicate  that Mr H wanted PPI.
Ref: DRN67422542Im mindful that the cross is printed  on the form rather than handwritten.  But the other  
information on the application  is printed too. From what  I understand of BoS  sales  
process at the time, the application would have been printed out following a conversation  
about the card application  and the PPI with the BoS representative. Mr H signed  the 
application  so if there was something on here that he hadnt  agreed to or didnt 
understand I wouldve expected him to have queried  it at the time before signing.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something different  happened when Mr H took out his card and PPI, I think  he chose  to 
take out the policy and likely  did so without undue pressure.
Mr H says that he wasnt advised to take out PPI. BoS says this was a branch  sale so it 
recommended the PPI to Mr H. This means  it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Hs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. For example Mr H was eligible for the cover 
and he said he didnt  have any real means to fall back  on to make the repayments on his 
credit card if he found himself unable  to work. So I think  he had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Hs employment  or occupation, which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect  his ability to claim.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr H as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought  he was buying from the information he was 
likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr H would have 
declined the cover  had BoS done  anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Hs circumstances  at the time of sale and despite  its limitations 
and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think  
he would  have  still thought he had some  good reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr H would  have still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr Hs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. 
These general points  include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not correctly  
applying the regulators  rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies  
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith meant  BoS should  
have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making  a claim.
But Mr Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN67422543I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Hs representative has made a number of representations  about  this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr H should  get back all the money  he paid for the policy  
because: BoS failed  to tell Mr H about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,  the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Mr H wouldnt  have taken out the policy  had they 
known about the level of commission  and he should receive a refund of all the premiums  he 
paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mr Hs PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BoS has worked this out and based on 
what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Hs case was less than half the cost 
of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN67422544I dont think BoS needed  to tell Mr H about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont  think  the 
non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think  BoS treated Mr H unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Mr H back any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give Mr H back some of the cost of the PPI and  
compensate him as if it had treated him unfairly. So I dont  think  it needs to do anything 
more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Hs complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr H paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. Bank 
of Scotland Plc should now make  arrangements to pay Mr H if it hasnt done so already. 
Theres nothing more  it needs to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6742254