K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  unfairly  declined  a claim for storm 
damage under her home  insurance policy. 
background
In December 2018, Mrs R said she went into her loft and found damage had been caused  to 
her roof. She contacted  a local independent roofer who attended and said that damage had 
been caused by a recent storm. 
Mrs R contacted Aviva to make a claim,  but it declined this as it didnt consider the damage  
was substantial enough to be as a result of a storm. It also said that a photo  of Mrs Rs home  
on Google Maps showed  there was pre-existing damage already present prior to her taking 
out the policy. So it declined the claim because it considered damage was caused  by wear 
and tear and not a one-off storm event. 
Mrs R disputed Avivas decision. She provided  further information  about previous storms in 
her local area from news reports. She also felt Aviva  had acted  unfairly by relying  on Google 
Maps to decline the claim. She didnt consider the photo clearly  showed there was evidence 
of wear and tear. As she remained unhappy  she brought her complaint to our service for 
investigation. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld.  He agreed with Mrs R that 
he didnt think Google Maps showed the roof had signs  of wear and tear. So he carried out 
his own research but didnt agree a storm was present on or around the time Mrs R said 
damage likely occurred.  
Mrs R disagreed with our investigators view. She remained of the opinion  that the local 
independent roofer  had said that damage  was caused by a recent storm and therefore Aviva 
should accept  the claim.  She also maintained that weather reports  showed  there was a 
storm present prior to her making  a claim. As she remained unhappy, the case  has been  
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mrs R, Im not upholding this complaint. I will now explain why. 
Whilst Mrs Rs policy doesnt specifically define  a storm, theres no dispute that shes  
covered for damage caused by a storm. These complaints are common  and so this service 
has an established approach to considering whether an insurer has acted fairly and 
reasonably. We start by asking three questions:  
1.Were storm  conditions present on or around  the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2.Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes?
3.Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ref: DRN66174432If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then would  say a claim should  succeed.  
However, if the answer to any questions is no, then we usually wouldnt expect such  a claim 
to succeed. 
Mrs R has been unable  to establish  when damage  took place as she only first noticed  it 
when she went up into her loft. The local independent roofer she employed  said that damage 
had occurred due to a recent storm. Unfortunately theres no further information available 
that gives a more specific most likely  date of loss. 
I have carried out my own research. I firstly  carried out searches on weather reports that 
provide records taken from weather stations across the UK. Mrs Rs local independent roofer  
said the damage occurred due to a recent storm. Ive checked the weather reports  from the 
time Mrs R first noticed  the damage, to up to two months prior to identify whether storm 
conditions were present.  And having done so, Im not in agreement  these reports  indicate 
that a storm took place.  
Mrs R provided  weather reports from both UK and local news stations to show stormy 
conditions were reported prior to her first establishing the damage. But the information she 
provided doesnt give clear records of wind speed or rainfall which  we consider an important 
factor when assessing whether a storm took place or not. 
Mrs Rs research showed weather warnings in place for her local area and surrounding  parts 
of the UK. The report suggested that strong,  gusty  winds and heavy rainfall  were  due to hit 
the UK. But it doesnt give an exact  reading  of exactly  what  occurred in the vicinity of Mrs Rs 
area. So Im not persuaded by these reports to agree with Mrs R that damage was more  
likely than not caused by a storm. 
Mrs R asked how about the distance  between  her home and the weather stations that 
captured the weather  records. The maximum wind speed over a two month period peaked at 
40MPH from a weather station 18 miles away from Mrs Rs home. This is the closest 
weather station to her home I was able to find a specific  weather record  from. Rainfall 
records showed the maximum rainfall peaked at 3.4mm per hour which was recorded  from a 
weather station 12 miles away  which was also the closest reading taken. 
Im in agreement there was poor weather leading up to the time Mrs R made a claim.  But in 
order for Mrs Rs claim to succeed, it must be a storm. And on balance,  Ive not been 
persuaded Mrs R has demonstrated a storm caused  the damage to her roof.  
I agree  with Mrs R that the Google Maps  images dont provide a fair indication  that damage 
had already been present  prior to her taking out her buildings  insurance policy.  However, 
because Im not in agreement Mrs R has demonstrated there  was a one-off insured event, I 
dont think Aviva acted unfairly  by declining the claim. I appreciate the information  Mrs R 
asked me to consider, but as above, on balance I dont think her claim  should  succeed.  
I dont doubt the experience of the local independent roofer. But Im not persuaded that I 
could reasonably require Aviva  to accept the claim based on the information provided.  The 
invoice shows the roofer considered that the damage was caused  by a recent storm, but 
based on all the information available, I am not persuaded  it was. So I wont be asking it to 
do anything else here. 
Mrs R hasnt pursued a claim under the accidental damage benefit of the policy  and so this 
is something I wont consider. 
Ref: DRN66174433my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Liam Hickey 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6617443