K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about poor service from KW Trading Services Limited  (KW)  regarding his
Self Invested Personal Pension  Plan (SIPP) that has resulted in paying more  tax than he
shouldve.
background
Mr R is a member  of a number of registered  pension schemes. He had retired  and taken 
benefits from most of them but also held a SIPP. In 2011 he decided to take a lump  sum 
from the SIPP. It has become clear  that while Mr R couldve applied  for HMRC enhanced 
protection (EP) of his pension benefits prior to 2009  this didnt happen and the opportunity 
was lost. 
Mr R says that KW failed to give him proper advice about the availability of HMRC 
protections regarding the size of the lifetime allowance applicable to his SIPP. This had 
resulted in lost opportunities to claim protections and resulted  in him paying more  tax.
He wanted KW to pay the tax and any late payment penalties and interest.
KW said it didnt  advise Mr R to take tax free cash  that triggered the charge so wasnt  
responsible for the tax. It said it didnt cause  the tax charge that was due to failure  to claim 
EP. However it offered  to pay the late payment  penalties and interest  charges due to late 
payment of the tax.
I issued four provisional  decisions  in this case and said the following
my first provisional  decision
In summary  I said there were a number of issues.
Failure to claim  Enhanced Protection
I saw correspondence  between Mr R and his then adviser about claiming Enhanced 
Protection (EP) prior to 2009. Mr R didnt act on the advice and the window for claiming  EP 
closed in April 2009. So, I didnt think I could hold KW or its predecessors responsible  for 
this loss of EP.
Liability for tax, interest and penalties due to the lump sum taken in 2011.
In 2011 Mr R wanted to take tax free cash from his SIPP. KW accepted  it made an error in 
the calculation  that resulted in undervaluing the pensions  in payment and meant it thought  
there was headroom in the then LTA of £1.8 million and overestimated the tax-free cash 
available by about £65,000. Its mistake  resulted in Mr R taking too high a lump sum and 
incurring a tax charge.  I thought it is was only because  of their mistake  that Mr R took a lump 
sum at the level that triggered a tax charge.
I thought that had Mr R been aware of the error its reasonable to conclude  that he wouldve 
taken no - or a smaller - lump sum. So irrespective  of any failure  to claim EP the reason Mr 
R incurred a tax charge  was because of KWs  mistake and failure to know their clients 
situation. 
Ref: DRN60661212I thought it was reasonable that KW should meet the cost of that mistake,  this being  the tax, 
interest and late payment  penalties applied by HMRC. 
Impact of failing to claim FP12
KW accepted it shouldve  checked whether there  was EP and calculated the correct level of 
tax-free cash which could  be taken without invoking a tax charge in 2011. But it also said 
that even if itd identified the correct protection position this wouldnt automatically have led 
to a detailed pension review and advice  on protection  for the future.  KW said it didnt advise 
on protection at the time and merely  facilitated  taking tax free cash. So, in effect it said it 
wasnt responsible  for any further  tax charges arising due to the failure  to claim any other 
protections that mightve been available. 
But Mr R believed KW was advising him on all matters and referred to correspondence 
regarding his ISA and tax-free cash.
I thought there was a regular ongoing relationship  between the parties  and advice was taken 
in 2011 in relation to an ISA and implementing steps  to draw the tax-free cash.  The forms 
didnt say there was any form of protection in place but instead confirmed, wrongly, the 
pension value and value of benefit  crystallisation  events were  below limits.
I thought correctly calculating the amount of tax-free  cash  from a pension  necessarily  
requires consideration of the relevant LTA and any protection. On balance I thought KW was 
advising Mr R. I said that because it is difficult to advise or even administer such  a payment 
without considering the LTA. But even if I was wrong and it wasnt advising  or under a duty 
to advise, I was satisfied it was arranging the transaction and I thought their mistake  in the 
calculation resulted in a lost opportunity that wouldve identified the protection position and 
provoked a conversation about the LTA.
FP12 was available until 5 April 2012 and provided protection  for up to £1.8 million  of 
pension assets.  Had Mr R been  aware  that he didnt have any protection in 2011, I thought  
he couldve  claimed this. I thought  it was likely  he wouldve  done.  I said that because the 
correct calculation wouldve highlighted that he had already missed out by not claiming EP 
and wouldve helped  Mr R understand the need for action.
Where a party has made a mistake, we would  seek to put them back  in the position  they 
wouldve been in but for that mistake. I didnt think that KW had spotted that protection was 
relevant.
It seemed unlikely to me that KW wouldnt have offered to give advice on this. I said that in 
part because that is what it had done  in the past when EP was introduced  and in 2014
following a review. But I thought that, even if I was wrong about that, their error meant an 
opportunity was lost which in turn meant opportunities  to take protection and mitigate tax at 
age 75 were missed, whether further advice was taken from KW or someone else.
Judging by the October 2013 fact find I thought it seemed that, in autumn 2013, KW 
shouldve been  aware and had all information  needed to be aware there wasnt any 
protection in place and could reasonably have concluded there  would be a tax charge when 
Mr R reached  75 in spring 2014.  However,  there was nothing  to show  any action was taken  
in the light of this. So, I thought KW should  also be liable  for the additional tax at age 75 due 
to the absence of FP12 - but not EP.
Ref: DRN60661213I noted that there was a further review and advice sent on 28 March 2014  including a 
recommendation that Mr R apply  for FP14, even though again the advice was that he hadnt 
yet breached the limits at that time.  By then there were only five working  days until his 75 
birthday and four working days until the last day to claim FP14. If the advice was sent out by 
post the timescale was unfeasible.  So, I thought it wouldve been too late either to claim 
protection or mitigate  the position  by making  a withdrawal of funds before age 75. 
KW argued that when  another provider took over it shouldve checked  the protection 
position. It said there was a provider switch in 2011 just after tax free cash was taken, and 
another from May 2014.  But I thought the change  in May 2014 wouldve been too late to take 
any action to claim FP14 or to mitigate  the position,  as by then Mr R was over 75. I also 
thought that a provider  is appointed  to manage  and administer the scheme and I hadnt  seen 
any evidence that the provider was responsible  for providing advice regarding protection.
KW also argued that an application for FP12  wouldve resulted in the imposition of further 
restrictions on what Mr R wouldve  been  able to do with his benefits. In particular it said it 
wouldve prevented  him from building up benefits under every registered  scheme  he 
belonged to by 5 April 2012.  But I dont think that is relevant.  The issue of further benefit 
accrual had been  considered when he was advised  to claim EP and it was concluded that he 
had no intention of building  up further benefits under any of pension schemes he was in. It 
was for this reason that EP was advised.  I havent seen any evidence  to suggest that Mr R 
wouldve built up further benefits so I dont think this point is relevant.
KW also argued that it didnt make any recommendation to Mr R in 2011.  It said Mr R
approached it having  already made a decision to generate cash from his SIPP. KW was only
asked to facilitate  that. It didnt think this wouldve put it under an obligation to do a full
review and advise  about LTA protection. Had Mr R not used his SIPP, he wouldve needed 
to use another  asset that wouldve triggered an income tax charge, so tax would always 
have been payable whichever asset he used. But Id already  concluded  that, irrespective of 
any advice, the administrative error  in calculation  and checking protection resulted in a lost 
opportunity that I think Mr R wouldve otherwise taken.
Mr R also argued that taking the lump sum increased his estate for inheritance tax (IHT)
purposes. So, the advice  wasnt appropriate as his aim at the time was to pass  money to his 
beneficiaries and mitigate IHT. But KW said that it hadnt seen any evidence  that the
objective of drawdown in 2011 was to mitigate IHT. Instead the objective was to raise funds
to gift. I note that any gifts made  in 2011  couldve been potentially exempt transfers for
inheritance tax purposes. As it is now more than seven years  since  2011 and, assuming
those gifts were made at the time, I assumed it should no longer fall within  Mr Rs estate for
IHT. 
I also considered that Mr R had suffered distress and inconvenience due to the fact the
protection position wasnt identified. I thought  this mustve been distressing for him. On 
balance, I thought an award of £500 would be fair in all the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint and directed  KW Trading  Services  Limited to pay
Mr R
1. 100% of the tax (estimated at circa  £65,000), interest and late payment charges due
to late payment of tax (estimated at circa £12,000) that arose on the 2011  lump sum
payment from his SIPP. The amount of tax payable  should be reduced to reflect the
Ref: DRN60661214amount of income  tax he wouldve paid had he taken the amount of the lump sum in excess 
of that he could take as tax free cash as normal pension income.
2. 100% of the tax charge on his benefit crystallisation event at age 75 as a result  of the
failure to claim FP12 or FP14  but not as a result  of failing  to claim EP. So, the tax
would be such amount as was payable because it was between the LTA at age 75
(which was £1.25 million)  and the LTA that wouldve applied had he claimed  FP12
and given him protection up to £1.8 million. The amount of tax payable should  be
reduced to reflect the amount of income tax he wouldve paid had he taken the
amount as normal pension income.
3. £500 for distress  and inconvenience.
4. The amounts in 1 and 2 above  should  be increased by 8% simple interest from the
date of payment  to HMRC to the date we told KW Trading Services  Limited  that Mr R had
accepted any final decision.
Mr R replied to say that, had he been  correctly informed at the time, he wouldnt have taken  
cash in 2011 and would instead have accepted the charge at age 75 - but wouldve claimed 
FP12. He wanted to be compensated on that basis and estimated his loss at circa £33,500. 
He also accepted the proposed £500 for distress  and inconvenience and requested  an 
additional award of £160  to cover the cost of calculating this loss. Mr Rs response and 
calculations were sent on to KW for its consideration in early March 2019.  
KW said it didnt  propose to submit  further arguments. It requested information to enable  it to 
calculate the loss in accordance with the provisional  decision. KW also indicated  that it didnt 
think Mr Rs calculations were correct. It produced  calculations in June 2019. These  
highlighted a key piece of information which was that, as the LTA was exceeded  in 2011, no 
further protections couldve been  claimed. 
It said that, as a consequence  of fully using up his LTA, there was no further  scope for relief 
of any charge at age 75.
It said that it calculated  the tax charge  to be £65,089  after a reduction  for the tax payable in 
income if the fund in excess of the LTA had been taken as income. It noted that Mr R had 
incurred an interest charge for late payment of £12,528, but hadnt checked or validated that 
amount.
It also said that the tax charge incurred in 2011  was unavoidable and Mr R wouldve had to 
pay tax at some point  and not later than age 75. It argued there was a gain to be offset  
from the loss in 2011 equal to the LTA tax charge not paid at 75. In effect it concluded that 
there wasnt any financial loss.
KW said that if Mr R had not crystallised any funds in 2011, nor before age 75, he wouldve 
had to pay a charge at age 75, but there was no suggestion that Mr R wouldnt have 
crystallised funds in 2011. It accepted  there was a tax charge at age 75 but understood this 
was mainly under BCE 5A as a result of growth  in funds crystallised  in May 2011 and the 
charge wouldnt  have been  any less had Mr R claimed FP12 or FP14.
It calculated the fund growth  to age 75 was 23.53% which would have been an addition  of 
£61,262 to the excess  funds. The LTA charge  at 25% on the excess wouldve been £15,316. 
The total excess funds  would have been  £321,619  and if uncrystallised until age 75 the LTA 
Ref: DRN60661215charge at 25% would  have been £80,405. Mr R didnt have to pay this because he 
crystallised in 2011. It said the additional  LTA charge would have been £80,405 less 
£15,316 which was £65,089. This was a gain that should be offset against the loss and 
exactly cancelled out the tax charge from 2011. However, it accepted  the interest charged by 
HMRC remained payable  by way of redress, simple interest on that amount and the £500 for 
distress and inconvenience.
my second  provisional  decision
I said that as both parties hadnt disputed that KW made a mistake, I needed to focus on the 
redress. 
Before I did that I needed  to consider  the basis of that calculation based on what  Mr R said 
he wouldve done  had he had correct information in 2011. Mr R said he wouldnt have 
withdrawn any cash in 2011, wouldve claimed  FP12 and paid the LTA charge at age 75. KW 
strongly disputed that the loss should be calculated in a different manner to that suggested 
by my first provisional decision.
It said it believed the provisional decision had been accepted and it completed calculations 
on that basis. It now appeared that Mr R had changed his position in terms of what he 
wouldve done. It felt this was allowing him the benefit of hindsight and was in effect a new 
complaint. This had the result  of changing  the award. This meant they would need  to incur 
further costs which wasnt  fair. It wanted  to understand why Mr R was being  given  the option 
to change his choice. And why it wasnt being allowed to contest the reasons given by Mr R 
for his change in position.
At the time of my provisional decision there  were no figures available to confirm the actual 
tax position. Mr R responded in early February  2019 and presented  his calculations many  
months before KW did. In his response he said that, had he received correct  advice in 2011, 
he would  not have withdrawn cash from his SIPP until age 75. He wouldve applied for FP12, 
giving him protection for pension benefits up to £1.8 million, and that he would have 
therefore paid tax on benefits over and above  £1.8 million  at age 75.
He later explained this choice  by saying the decision to take cash in 2011 was for IHT 
purposes. He said cash  was withdrawn at the suggestion of his adviser in order to save 
Inheritance Tax. Mr R had access to investments which he could have used for IHT 
mitigation instead.  He said using his SIPP in fact worsened that IHT position. This is an 
argument raised by Mr R in his original complaint and considered  in my provisional  decision 
- so this wasnt new. 
My first provisional  decision also indicated that, had Mr R been correctly  advised, I thought 
he wouldve taken no - or a smaller - lump  sum in 2011, but I didnt say which Mr R wouldve 
done. Mr Rs response  has clarified  which of those choices he wouldve made.
Mr R has also confirmed that he did not make any further withdrawals from his SIPP  
between 2011  and his 75th birthday. I think this pattern of behaviour also supports his 
position.
On balance based on the information supplied, his submissions and his actual actions after 
2011, I thought  it was reasonable to conclude that Mr R wouldve done  as he said he 
wouldve and paid the LTA charge at age 75 having claimed FP12.
Ref: DRN60661216So, I didnt accept KWs argument  that Mr R was changing his view with the benefit of its 
calculations. Nor did I accept the suggestion  that this was a new complaint. I could 
understand its frustration  that fresh calculations were now needed, but it was provided  with a 
copy of Mr Rs reply  in March 2019 and was aware of this position. 
Further, since KW completed its calculation it had become  apparent that taking the lump  
sum in 2011  at a time when Mr R had already exceeded his LTA meant  that there wouldve 
been no further opportunities to claim FP12  or FP 14. This hadnt been factored in at the 
time of my provisional decision and wouldve made  a difference  to the approach to 
calculating loss. However, the purpose  of the provisional decision was to allow  the parties to 
present further  evidence  and arguments  and to clarify the position. This was what  had 
happened. Both parties had incurred  expenditure in completing calculations  and the 
information supplied  meant that the appropriate  way forward was in my view clearer.
The replies to my provisional  decision had also shown that a different loss calculation was 
now required  as it needed to compare the tax that was paid to the amount that wouldve 
been paid had there been no withdrawal before 75. I therefore proposed a new approach.
At that stage I didnt  suggest that either  party complete any calculations,  but instead 
confirmed that they accept the principle of the above approach and confirm they had 
sufficient information  to complete the calculations.
Mr R accepted my second proposed decision and confirmed that he had enough information 
to complete calculations.  Mr Rs adviser also completed further calculations regarding  the 
loss.
KW said it had reconsidered the matter in full as it felt that there had been a change of view 
from the first provisional decision. It said that having  exhausted his LTA in 2011,  any later 
election for FP12 or FP14 would have had no effect on the tax charge payable at a later 
benefit crystallisation  event - so there  would have  been no need  to apply for fixed  protection.
It said the LTA charge  triggered in 2011  was unavoidable because  even if he hadnt 
triggered a benefit crystallisation event,  Mr R would  have to pay an LTA tax charge at some 
point not later than age 75. The amount calculated as the additional  tax charge Mr R didnt 
have to pay exactly cancelled the charge that would have been required if calculated  in 
accordance with the provisional decision. That meant  Mr R hadnt suffered any real loss 
other than the interest and late payment charges it had offered  to pay.
It felt this figure was a surprise  to Mr R and that had caused his change in position and the 
action he now said he would have taken. It didnt think this change  had been explained and 
Mr R didnt seem to have been  challenged about  this. It also said itd asked for evidence  of 
the tax Mr R had paid as a result of the alleged error  but hadnt received it.
It felt that the following  should be clarified:  -
1.Mr R had said he wouldnt have taken cash from his SIPP but for the advice of KW. If 
he hadnt taken  their advice it said he wouldve had to use other  money and most 
likely been subject  to tax. It wanted  to know which tax Mr R felt hed unfairly incurred.
2.The purpose of the redress  was to work  out what Mr R had to pay as a result of the 
error. Rather than it prepare a further calculation, it wanted  Mr R to provide details of 
the tax he had incurred.
Ref: DRN606612173.It was also concerned that the calculation appeared  to add back  in the funds which 
Mr R withdrew.  It said Mr Rs children have  had the benefit of those funds and 
therefore they should not be added back to calculate future redress. Alternatively,  the 
children should  repay  the money  to Mr R to put him back  in the position he wouldve 
been in. It didnt seem fair that he could  have it both ways - either he wished to make 
a gift or he didnt.
4.It couldnt account for the award for distress  and inconvenience. Its offer to pay tax 
and penalties had been declined and ongoing  delays were  of Mr Rs making.
my third provisional findings
I issued a third provisional decision. KW says that its only because of its calculations  that a 
second provisional decision and new calculation was made.  I agreed  that was the case.  As 
Id already explained, it was the purpose  of a provisional decision to allow further 
submissions to clarify the position. The very nature of a provisional decision meant that KW 
remained able to present further arguments,  which it did. 
KW said that the first PD was accepted.  Both parties submitted comments  and KW 
requested information  to enable it to complete calculations. The information provided  was 
still relevant to the further calculations that would be required. As KW was aware, a 
provisional decision isnt binding until it is issued in the form of a final decision.
In my second provisional decision  Id explained with reasons  why I didnt think Mr R had 
made an opportunistic  change of mind as to the approach to redress.  I remained of the same 
view as I did in my second provisional  decision  for the reasons given.
KW suggested that the decision failed to take into account that the LTA charge triggered in 
2011 was unavoidable. It said even if Mr R hadnt triggered a benefit crystallisation event, Mr 
R would  have had to pay an LTA tax charge at some  point  not later than age 75. I 
considered KW to be correct and the calculation  reflected what wouldve happened  had Mr R 
been given correct advice. It focussed  on the difference in the amount  of LTA tax that 
wouldve been payable  had it been triggered at age 75 instead of earlier.
KW argued that, had Mr R not taken their advice, he would have  used other assets to make 
gifts and incurred  a tax charge. But I didnt agree. I thought it was possible that he might not 
have made  any gifts or made smaller gifts or used assets with no or a smaller tax charge. 
The purpose of redress is to put Mr R back in the position he wouldve been in but for the 
error. So whether  or not hed have incurred other tax because  hed have used different 
assets wasnt relevant.  What was relevant was how much more  tax hed paid in his pension 
scheme than he wouldve  done had he had the correct advice.
That wouldve  meant that Mr R wouldve fully understood his LTA and protection position in 
2011. He indicated that, had that been  the case, he would  not have taken money from his 
SIPP and instead  paid the tax charge  at 75. The redress calculation therefore  reflected that.
KW argued that the money withdrawn and paid to Mr Rs children shouldnt be added back 
into the calculation  or, that if it was, the money  should actually be repaid. But I didnt agree. 
The purpose of the adding  back is to assess what difference  it would have  made had Mr R 
not had a BCE until age 75. To do that calculation it was necessary to perform the 
calculation assuming no withdrawal was made in 2011 and to project the investment growth 
Ref: DRN60661218that wouldve  accrued  - and hence the amount of tax payable.  The redress would then be 
the difference between the two amounts.  It was possible that this might  mean  Mr R wouldve 
been worse off, in which case  the difference between the two would mean no payment 
would be due to Mr R for that part of the redress. This was a notional  calculation and didnt 
require the money  to be repaid, nor for the gifts to be reversed.
KW said it couldnt account for the award  for distress and inconvenience. But that award was 
made to reflect  the impact  of the error on the complainant and not to punish KW. I remained 
of the view that this amount was reasonable for the reasons given in my first provisional 
decision.
I also considered the calculations  performed by Mr Rs advisers to show what they believe 
would have been payable had he not drawn  a lump sum in 2011, but instead paid the tax 
charge at 75. Having reviewed those calculations I concluded that the use of a hypothetical 
calculation for the actual  tax that has been paid was unhelpful. It was introduced due to the 
perceived uncertainty of evidential support for the amount of tax paid. I thought that could 
complicate matters and lead to false profit or loss. Instead I thought it better to use the actual 
tax paid. Mr Rs advisers  said that he paid £105,167.84. 
Mr Rs adviser  argued that he mustve  suffered a loss as he had paid over £100,000 in tax. 
But I didnt agree. The purpose  of a loss calculation would be to put Mr R back  in the 
position he wouldve  been in but for the mistake. Mr R said that wouldve meant  he would not 
have taken anything  from his pension and paid any tax at 75. The correct  measure of loss is 
to consider whether as a result he has actually paid more tax than he wouldve done. The 
final calculation may show that he has actually paid less in which  case  there would not be a 
loss.
Having reviewed the comments made by both parties I remained of the view that I should 
uphold this complaint.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint and direct that KW Trading  Services Limited complete 
the following  calculations.
A)A calculation to show the amount  of tax that would  have been payable at age 75
a.had Mr R not crystallised his SIPP (nor withdrawn any cash  or income from 
his SIPP  before age 75) and 
b.on the assumption that he would have qualified for FPI2 and the LTA 
allowance applied  at age 75 would have been  £1.8 million adjusted to reflect  
the amount of the LTA used up by Mr Rs previous benefit crystallisation 
events from pension  schemes other than his SIPP.
B)Deduct £105,167.84 from the amount calculated under (A) above. If the amount 
under (A) was less than £105,167.84, the difference would  be the amount by which 
Mr R had overpaid tax and would show there was a loss. If the amount under (A) was 
greater than £105,167.84, then there wouldnt  have been a loss.
I said KW Trading  Services  Limited  should  pay to Mr R.
1.The amount  calculated under (B) if it showed a loss.
Ref: DRN606612192.The amount  of any penalties and interest  charges levied  by HMRC at 14 June  2018,   
being £12,528.
3.£500 for distress  and inconvenience
 
4.Interest on 1 and 2 above  at 8% per annum simple, in the case  of 1 from the date the 
cash was withdrawn  in 2011  to the date this service informs KW that Mr R has 
accepted my final decision and in the case of 2 above  from 14 June 2018 to the date 
this service informs KW that Mr R has accepted  my final decision.
5.£160 for advice  costs  incurred by Mr R in preparing his calculations.
In response, Mr R said that he had reviewed my conclusion about Enhanced Protection  
made in my first provisional decision. He said that after the discussion in 2006 there was a 
three year period between April 2006 and 2009 during which reviews were conducted, but 
nothing to show he was reminded of the importance  of applying for EP and the consequence 
of not doing so. There also was no discussion about the fact he wouldve exceed the LTA at 
A day and if he did not apply for EP he would  incur a LTA charge at 75, including  a 
percentage tax charge and hypothetical calculation of the amount payable. 
The legislation was so complex, a new qualification was introduced - yet Mr R was expected 
to understand  the impact based  on a few brief references  to it in the months prior to its 
introduction. He said KW had a duty to revisit  the matter between April 2006  and 2009 and 
remind him of the importance of applying for EP.
Mr R referred  to the Conduct  of Business rules. He said these required that: -
The firm explains  why it has concluded the recommendation  is suitable for the client
Explains any possible  disadvantaged of the transaction for the client
Gives the client  such  details as are appropriate  according to the complexity of the 
transaction.
He didnt feel KW had done  that and should  be held accountable for not doing so. He 
referred to specific rules,  namely  COBS 9.4.1, 9.4.7  and 9.4.8  about  providing a suitability 
report. 
He also referred to the calculations provided  by KW so far. He said, having done so, they 
were in broad agreement  with the method and content subject  to some discrepancies  that 
needed to be rectified.  He reinforced that the inclusion of FP12 was not an opportunistic 
change and made no difference to the calculations. However, he felt there was a 
fundamental error in that the LTA tax charge  was said to be £65,089.  He said this was after 
the reduction for the tax payable on income if the fund in excess  of the LTA had been taken 
as pension income as stipulated  in the provisional  decision. The figures have been reduced  
by the amount of the income tax payable on the amount taken in excess of the LTA.
He felt this was wrong because he did take income and pay income tax on the amount in 
excess of the LTA. This wouldve  been  avoided if Mr R had left the money in the SIPP to be 
crystallised at age75.  He therefore  said the actual calculation should be £260,356 x 55% = 
£143,196. On that basis the loss would be £143,196 - £80,405, resulting in£62,791.00. He 
felt the final award  should be based  on the calculations KW had provided in 2019  but with 
the correct rate of income tax being  applied.
Ref: DRN606612110KW said it was disappointed that weight was being  given to hearsay evidence as to the 
amount of the tax charge which Mr R has allegedly  incurred,  but no evidence had been 
forthcoming to support  this. It wanted  actual  evidence  to support the amount of £105,167.84. 
KW produced further calculations.
Mr R reviewed the further calculations and said he agreed the tax charge at age 75 wouldve  
been £141,227.50 but didnt agree with anything else in the calculations.
Enhanced protection
Mr R has challenged my conclusions about  Enhanced  Protection reached in my first 
provisional decision and which  had remained unchallenged until my third provisional 
decision. This could  fundamentally  change  the potential outcome of this complaint and has 
necessitated this fourth  provisional decision.  If KW was responsible  for the failure to claim 
EP, then it would mean  no LTA tax would have been payable.
I have had extensive further submissions  from both parties. In the light of the replies from 
both parties, I have further considered  all of the issues involved, including the position on 
Enhanced Protection. 
Mr R argues that KW had an ongoing  obligation to Mr R which should have resulted in 
discovering Mr R hadnt  applied for EP before it was too late to do so. 
He also argues that EP is complex, and it wasnt reasonable to assume  that Mr R 
understood the implications of failing to apply for EP. He felt KW shouldve  checked to make  
sure Mr R had actually  applied and not assumed he would do as agreed in 2006.
Mr R refers to the Conduct  of Business  Rules in force in 2007. Both parties  agree there was 
no similar rule in place at the time of the original  advice to apply for EP in 2006 and, as such,  
I dont think any obligations  set out in the later rules apply retrospectively  to the advice given 
in 2006. 
I think its also difficult to see how such an obligation could be created after 2007 unless the 
relevant EP and LTA issues were being considered within the ongoing  relationship. I have 
not seen evidence to show they were either reconsidered  or within  the general nature of the 
relationship between the parties in the period up to the last date that it was possible to apply 
for EP. That doesnt  happen until 2011 when I concluded they needed to be considered to 
enable a lump  sum and tax-free cash to be taken  in the most tax beneficial way.
Mr R believes  a 2009 letter shows ongoing support. But whilst the 2009 letter  shows  the 
parties were  working together, it doesnt  show that any ongoing support relationship 
extended to tax advice concerning protection from the LTA.  The letter sets out advice 
regarding a change  in insurer and asset  allocation, neither of which  required the 
consideration of EP or the LTA by KW. While  the COBS rules  applied to the matter  then at 
hand, that wouldnt reasonably extend its ambit  to issues which were not under 
consideration and were  not relevant to the subject matter of the letter or the relationship at 
that time.  And I have not seen any evidence to show that the LTA was part of the ongoing 
scope of the relationship between the parties  and subject to review at that time - nor that this 
should be implied to be the case.
So, while Mr R says there is no update nor reminder between 2006  and 2009 to apply for 
EP, I cannot  see that KW was obliged to do so. I say that because I dont think  it was within  
Ref: DRN606612111its ongoing remit and it had no reason to believe he wouldnt have claimed EP as agreed  in 
2006.  
Even if the legislation  surrounding the LTA was complex, I think the reason for the advice to 
claim EP was clear and the action required by Mr R was also clear  for the reasons I gave 
when I first considered this issue. So, I dont think there was any barrier or complexity in 
understanding what was needed and agreed.
Im satisfied that KW advised Mr R to apply for EP and Mr R agreed  that he would apply. I 
think it was therefore  entitled to believe that this would be the case  and I dont think  KW 
needed to remind  Mr R to do so.
Mr R refers to various letters, but as EP had to be claimed before April 2009, I dont think  it is 
relevant to review  correspondence after that date which could not have resulted in a change  
to the EP position once the final date for application  had passed.
Lastly Mr R referred  to statements made in my first provisional decision when considering 
EP. 
He referred to my statement that, 
Theres  evidence of annual fact find meetings in 2010 and 2011 and active  financial 
planning reviews   So, it does seem that there  was a regular ongoing relationship  between  
the parties.
I think  correctly  calculating the amount of tax-free cash from a pension necessarily requires 
consideration of the relevant LTA and any protection.
On balance  I think KW was advising Mr R.
Those statements  were relevant to considering the application of FP12 and 14. They also 
relate to the position after 2009, so are no of help in considering the position between  2006 
and 2009 - and so in my view are not relevant to my reconsideration of EP. 
So, for the reason given I dont believe that I can reasonably hold KW responsible for the 
failure to claim EP before the deadline in 2009.
Calculation of loss
Following my previous  provisional decisions,  calculations by both parties led to a conclusion 
that there  hadnt  been a loss. 
However, Mr R says the LTA charge at age 75 was only 25% rather than the effective 55% 
charge that was applied when he took the lump sum in 2011.  He argues the tax charges in 
2011 at 55% was circa £143,000 and at age 75 at 25% wouldve been circa £80,000 (using 
figures provided by KW). He says this means  hes paid £62,000 more tax than wouldve 
been the case had he not taken any money from his SIPP before age 75.
I can see the merit in Mr Rs arguments. I have already accepted his arguments that had he 
been correctly  advised in 2011 he wouldnt have taken anything from his SIPP  before age 
75.
Ref: DRN606612112I concluded that KWs failure to check and get correct information in 2011 meant he incurred 
a tax charge that couldve been avoided (at that time) had the correct information been  used. 
But it was Mr Rs failure to claim EP that means  a charge is payable at age 75. I remain of 
the view that the correct  measure of loss is the difference  between the amount of tax he 
actually paid due to taking funds in 2011  and the amount he would always have had to pay 
at age 75 had he not drawn  any money from his SIPP before age 75.
While the calculations suggest the tax charge  in 2011 was £143,000 this doesnt  match  up 
with the amount of tax Mr R has said he actually paid. He has at times suggested this was 
£65,000 and £105,000  but hasnt provided  any evidence  to demonstrate these  amounts.  So, 
while conceptually I agree  that a higher rate of tax was payable  in 2011 (55%)  that isnt the 
same as proving  that the amount of tax he actually paid is higher than he wouldve paid at 
age 75 (25%). 
I note also that the LTA in 2011, and which  could  have been locked in by FP12, was higher 
than at age 75 in 2014 and therefore  the amount in excess of the LTA and subject to tax is 
higher at age 75. Further  the value of his occupational pensions  in payment had also 
increased and affected the total value  subject to a tax charge at age 75.
Based on £65,000  there would likely be no overall loss, but based on £105,000 there could  
be. 
In the absence of satisfactory evidence to demonstrate the tax actually paid as a result of the 
BCE in 2011, Im reluctant to specify  a figure  in the below calculation. If any final decision 
contains the same direction as set out below, Mr R will need to provide KW with evidence  of 
the tax paid as a result of BCE in 2011.  
my fourth provisional decision
I proposed to uphold  this complaint and direct KW Trading Services Limited to undertake 
the following  calculation:
A)A calculation to show the amount  of tax that would  have been payable at age 75
a.had Mr R not crystallised his SIPP (nor withdrawn any cash  or income from 
his SIPP  before age 75) and 
b.on the assumption that he would have qualified for FPI2 and the LTA 
allowance applied  at age 75 would have been  £1.8 million adjusted to reflect  
the amount of the LTA used up by Mr Rs previous benefit crystallisation 
events from pension  schemes other than his SIPP.
B)Deduct the amount  of tax paid by Mr R as a result of the BCE in 2011 from the 
amount calculated under (A) above.  If the amount under  (A) was less than the 
amount of tax paid, the difference would be the amount by which Mr R had overpaid  
tax and would show there was a loss. If the amount under  (A) was greater  than the 
amount of tax paid, then there  wouldnt have  been a loss.
For these purposes Mr R would need to provide  KW with reasonable evidence  of the tax 
paid as a result of BCE in 2011.  
Once this has been  completed, KW Trading Services Limited  should  pay to Mr R the 
following:
Ref: DRN6066121131.The amount  calculated under (B) if it showed a loss.
2.The amount  of any penalties and interest  charges levied  by HMRC at 14 June  2018,  
being £12,528. If the above demonstrates  an overall gain from what has happened,  
that gain amount may be offset against  this.
3.£500 for distress  and inconvenience
 
4.Interest on 1 and 2 above  (if a loss is demonstrated) at 8% per annum  simple, in the 
case of 1 from the date the cash was withdrawn in 2011 to the date of settlement and 
in the case of 2 above from 14 June 2018  to the date of settlement.
5.£160 for advice  costs  incurred by Mr R in preparing his calculations.
For the purposes of this proposed direction, Ive assumed that the excess tax was paid 
outside of the pension  fund  and so notwithstanding any LTA complications  which  might  
arise from a payment  of the compensation into his pension, any compensation should in any 
case be paid directly  to Mr R. As such, I dont propose to make any further deduction for 
income tax which  might  have been paid on funds which would otherwise have remained in 
his pension. 
Mr R said that he didnt think  the proposed decision was impartial.  He didnt  think  it dealt fully 
with his arguments about EP but didnt stipulate why. However, he said that with reluctance  
he would accept the provisional  decision. as set out in my fourth  provisional  decision which 
includes:
Penalties and interest charged by HMRC  of £12,528;
£500 for distress  and inconvenience;
Interest at 8% on £12,528 until the date of settlement;
£160 for advice  and costs incurred in preparing calculations.
KW accepted the provisional decision.
Mr R reproduced evidence that had been  previously supplied as to the amount  tax paid 
being a statement that listed total pension saving charges of £69,714.00. Dr R confirmed he 
had not made any other withdrawals from his personal pension benefits  other  than the 
amount withdrawn in 2011. KW confirmed it accepted the figure  of £69,714  as being the 
actual amount of tax paid by Mr R as confirmed by his advisers.  It was happy to proceed to 
the final decision on that basis and this was confirmed  to Mr R. The Final Decision is issued 
on that basis.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and in the light of the 
replies from both parties I have not changed  my mind.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN606612114I direct  that KW Trading  Services  Limited to undertake the following calculation:
A)A calculation to show the amount  of tax that would  have been payable at age 75
a.had Mr R not crystallised his SIPP (nor withdrawn any cash  or income from 
his SIPP  before age 75) and 
b.on the assumption that he would have qualified for FPI2 and the LTA 
allowance applied  at age 75 would have been  £1.8 million adjusted to reflect  
the amount of the LTA used up by Mr Rs previous benefit crystallisation 
events from pension  schemes other than his SIPP.
B)Deduct the amount  of tax paid by Mr R as a result of the BCE in 2011 from the 
amount calculated under (A) above.  If the amount under  (A) was less than the 
amount of tax paid, the difference would be the amount by which Mr R had overpaid  
tax and would show there was a loss. If the amount under  (A) was greater  than the 
amount of tax paid, then there  wouldnt have  been a loss.
Ref: DRN606612115For these purposes Mr R has provided  KW and it has accepted  the evidence of the tax paid 
as a result  of BCE in 2011. 
Once this has been  completed, KW Trading Services Limited  should  pay to Mr R the 
following:
1.The amount  calculated under (B) if it showed a loss.
2.The amount  of any penalties and interest  charges levied  by HMRC at 14 June  2018,  
being £12,528. If the above demonstrates  an overall gain from what has happened,  
that gain amount may be offset against  this.
3.£500 for distress  and inconvenience
 
4.Interest on 1 and 2 above  (if a loss is demonstrated) at 8% per annum  simple, in the 
case of 1 from the date the cash was withdrawn in 2011 to the date of settlement and 
in the case of 2 above from 14 June 2018  to the date of settlement.
5.£160 for advice  costs  incurred by Mr R in preparing his calculations.
For the purposes of this direction, Ive assumed that the excess tax was paid outside of the 
pension fund  and so notwithstanding any LTA complications which might arise  from a 
payment of the compensation into his pension, any compensation should in any case  be 
paid directly to Mr R. As such, I dont propose to make any further deduction for income tax 
which might  have been paid on funds which would  otherwise have remained in his pension. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest  and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000,  I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  is more  than £150,000, I 
recommend that KW Trading Services Limited pays  Mr R the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  KW Trading Services  Limited  
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr R can accept my decision and go 
to court  to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6066121