K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an abortive attempt by Mr C to re-mortgage  his buy-to-let (BTL) 
property to Clydesdale Bank Plc. His application  was eventually turned down, after he had 
spent in the region of £16,000 extending the lease on his BTL property. This has left him 
with a lot of financial disruption, for which he holds Clydesdale  responsible.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 13 December 2019,  which  is attached below and 
forms part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis  on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties. 
I gave the parties  until 3 January 2020  to reply;  both have done so. Clydesdale responded 
saying it had nothing  further to say. Mr C, in conversation with our investigator,  disagreed 
with my findings, but didnt make any new points of arguments. Rather, he thought I hadnt 
properly considered the existing arguments  and evidence hed provided.
my findings
As with my provisional decision, Ill begin with some general observations. 
Mr C told the investigator hed like a discussion with me about his case.  The investigator told 
Mr C that was unlikely  to happen, and he was right to do so. It wouldnt be appropriate  
because it would, in effect, be giving Mr C a one-sided  personal  hearing to press  his case 
directly without the business being  involved and being able to contribute. 
On the rare occasions we conduct  a direct hearing,  it's at the discretion of an ombudsman, is 
called solely because he or she thinks it's essential to reaching  a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present.  Anything  else would be procedurally  unfair, and 
introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from all parties.
With that in mind, Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I said that neither party need 
repeat anything theyd said already; thats  because Id already  taken  it into account when 
reaching my provisional decision. 
I explained in some detail how and why I didnt think  Clydesdale  was to blame  for the 
problems Mr Cs application  encountered.  The provisional decision  is attached  below, so 
theres no need for me to reproduce what I said.
Mr C may disagree with me, and its his right to do if he wishes.  But as he hasnt  introduced 
any material new argument or evidence that I havent already considered, Ive no reason to 
change my provisional decision,  and so I dont. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, and make no order  or award against  Clydesdale Bank Plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  
in any further  discussion  of the merits of it.
Ref: DRN67617172Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67617173CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  an abortive attempt  by Mr C to re-mortgage  his buy-to-let (BTL) property to 
Clydesdale Bank Plc. His application was eventually  turned down, after he had spent  in the region of 
£16,000 extending the lease on his BTL property. This has left him with a lot of financial disruption, for 
which he holds Clydesdale responsible.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, using my 
own words  to do so, and rounding the sums involved. No discourtesys intended  by that. Its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of 
the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying  Mr C when  my decision is published.
Mr Cs BTL property  was already in mortgage (for around £71,000) to another  lender that Ill call D. 
His mortgage was coming towards  the end of its interest rate deal, plus Mr C had some unsecured 
consumer debt that he wanted to consolidate. In the summer of 2018,  he contacted  a broker firm that 
Ill call B. An application was put in to Clydesdale  for £112,500, and the bank arranged  a valuation. 
The valuation  was done on 10 July 2018  and came  back at £105,000  (Mr C had estimated it to be 
£150,000) with a comment that the low valuation reflected that the lease only had 62 years left.
Needing to extend the lease,  Mr C decided  to add the cost doing  so to the amount of the re-mortgage.  
Ideally, he wanted the re-mortgage and lease extension to complete at the same time, which would 
have allowed him to pay the lease premium from the re-mortgage funds. However, this wasnt 
possible, because Clydesdale wouldnt  be able to make  its lending decision  until after the lease had 
been extended and the property had been revalued.
So this meant Mr C had to fund the lease extension himself, and he did so by increasing his credit 
card and overdraft debt.  The new lease agreement was signed on 10 October 2018;  Mr C paid a 
premium of £13,000  but has said the total cost to him was around £16,000.  Clydesdale arranged for 
the property  to be revalued; this was on 29 October 2018, but the valuation, taking into account the 
new lease, only came back at £117,500. 
The valuer  was asked to reassess and came  back with a final revised figure  of £125,000. Even at this 
figure, the most Clydesdale could have lent Mr C was £93,750 (75% loan-to- value),  which  wouldnt 
clear all of Mr Cs consumer debt (which, of course, had increased to cover the cost of the lease 
extension). More  significantly from the banks point of view, it learned that Mr C had recently taken out 
a short-term payday loan.  At this point, Clydesdale told B that it wasnt taking  Mr Cs re-mortgage  
application any further. 
After trying unsuccessfully, to find another lender to provide a re-mortgage, Mr C eventually  
negotiated a new rate with D. But hes been left with a lot of financial disruption, not least from the 
money he spent on the lease extension. He made  a complaint to Clydesdale, which  it rejected  in a 
final response dated 19 November 2018, referring Mr C to us.
Initially, our adjudicator didnt think Clydesdale and done anything  wrong and let Mr C know of his 
view of the complaint  in March 2019. Mr C wasnt happy  and so the adjudicator reconsidered  his initial 
findings. In July 2019,  the adjudicator issued a revised opinion, recommending the complaint be 
Ref: DRN67617174upheld. He thought Clydesdale could have rejected the application back  in July, before Mr C set about  
extending the lease; but he didnt  think Mr C should be compensated the cost of doing  so, because 
hed still accrued the benefit  of doing so in the increased value of the property. 
Ultimately, however, he thought  Clydesdale was wrong  to reject the application  in November.  He 
thought the bank should have approved it, and recommended it pay Mr C £750 compensation  for the 
time and trouble hed been put to.
Both parties asked  for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Mr C thought  the 
compensation was too low, and Clydesdale emphatically  rejected  the apparent re-assessment by the 
adjudicator of its lending decision.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us.
I make  that latter point  because,  from reading  Mr Cs emails to the adjudicator, it soon becomes  
apparent that much of his frustration and criticism are directed at B, not just at Clydesdale. Weve  
explained that this complaint  is only about  Clydesdale,  and Mr C will need to contact B directly  if he 
wishes to pursue a complaint about its role in the transaction. What we havent explained is that if Mr 
C did that, and wasnt happy with the outcome, he wouldnt then be able to ask us to look into the 
complaint about B. 
Were not free to consider  every complaint we receive. Our rule book sets out the activities we can 
consider; the advising on, and arranging of, BTL mortgages by brokers, are not regulated activities.  
We can consider  how Clydesdale handled the application it received  for the BTL mortgage,  because 
that is covered by a separate  activity in our rules; lending  money  secured by a charge on land.
So I have no jurisdiction to consider the involvement of B in this transaction, whether that be part of 
this complaint against Clydesdale or a separate one against B. Any reference I make in this narrative  
to the role, responsibilities and actions of B will be for context only,  and to distinguish them from the 
role, responsibilities and actions of Clydesdale,  which I am able to consider. On that point, it must  be 
kept in mind at all times that Clydesdale wasnt  Mr Cs advisor in the transaction, and wasnt privy to 
all of the discussions,  conversations and dialogue between Mr C and B, who was Mr Cs advisor. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round. 
In his follow-up  view of the complaint, the adjudicator carried out what he described  as his own 
assessment of Mr Cs application; I havent done that here. Thats because, generally speaking, its 
not the role of an ombudsman  to interfere with a lenders commercial judgement on how much it will 
lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position by substituting  my commercial  judgement for 
Clydesdales.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender  has lent before, its not 
obliged to do so again. But a lender must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for 
Ref: DRN67617175lending, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria.  Lenders criteria 
are commercially sensitive and not generally  made public. Those criteria typically look at affordability,  
applicants credit  profile and the acceptability or otherwise  of the property being proposed as security 
for the loan. 
All of these were relevant  in Mr Cs application  at different stages; at the outset, it seems there were  
some concerns that affordability might be tight, but the main obstacle at the early stages  was the 
suitability of the property. Mr Cs BTL property  only had 62 years left on its lease. There  were  two 
problems with that; firstly  62 years is too short for the majority of lenders (its quite normal  for 75 years 
to be a minimum requirement) and secondly, it meant the property was valued substantially below  
what was needed to secure the amount  Mr C wanted to borrow.  Ill come back  to the valuations  in due 
course.
What all that meant though, is that Clydesdale  couldnt  make  a lending decision unless and until the 
lease had been extended  and it had been able to establish the effect of the extension  on the 
propertys value.  Thats  not to say Clydesdale  advised  Mr C to extend the lease; as I said earlier, 
Clydesdale wasnt Mr Cs advisor at any stage.  It also meant that Mr Cs desire  for the re-mortgage 
and lease extension to complete simultaneously  was never achievable. If he believed otherwise, I 
dont find that it was because Clydesdale said anything to give him that expectation.
As I said earlier, Mr C had to increase  his debt exposure to finance the lease  extension, and it took 
from July to October 2018 for that to complete.  Only then could Clydesdale commission a new 
valuation to see if the property was now suitable security for the proposed mortgage.  Sadly, it turned 
out not be, even after the second valuation  had itself been reviewed and revised  upwards.  That left no 
prospect of Clydesdale being able to lend Mr C enough  to repay the mortgage with D and clear  his 
unsecured debts. 
The prospect of Mr C still having unsecured debt to service alongside the new mortgage obviously  
impacted on the affordability assessment Clydesdale  was now in a position  conduct. But whilst  a 
contributory factor, that wasnt  ultimately  what clinched (for want of a better word)  the decision  not to 
lend. It was that in September 2018  Mr C had taken  out the payday loan. 
Mr C had used short-term  loans before, but these had been several years previously, and werent  of 
any great concern  to Clydesdale. But the use of short-term credit within the last three months (and in 
this case,  that meant whilst  the application  was active) is a major adverse influencer in Clydesdales 
lending policy. In Mr Cs case, it was enough  for the bank  to decide not to lend.
I can appreciate  Mr C finding  that very unwelcome;  especially after hed spent  money he didnt have 
on a lease extension that had turned  out not to have  the effect on the valuation  hed hoped  for (and 
needed). No one likes to be turned down  for credit, but whilst I fully understand that Clydesdales 
decision was unwelcome to Mr C, it wasnt unfair, which  is the test I have to apply.
I said Id return to the valuations in due course. As I mentioned a moment ago, the impact of the lease 
extension on the property value wasnt what Mr C had anticipated, and its apparent from his 
comments that he thinks the final valuation is wrong, and believes Clydesdale is responsible for it 
being wrong. Im afraid Mr C is mistaken in thinking Clydesdale conducted the valuations; all it 
actually did was commission  them. Ill explain  the difference
Lenders arent experts in valuing properties, so they rely on people who are; i.e. valuers and 
chartered surveyors. Clydesdales duty to Mr C was to appoint  a suitably qualified and competent 
surveyor to carry out the valuations  on his BTL property.  Provided it did that, and I am satisfied it did 
in Mr Cs case, it was entitled to rely on the surveyors  opinion when assessing  whether  and on what 
terms to grant Mr Cs mortgage application.  
Where a consumer is unhappy with the surveyors  opinion,  its reasonable that a lender  should ask 
the surveyor  to review. That happened in the case of the post-lease  extension  valuation,  and I note 
Ref: DRN67617176the surveyor  did change his mind about how much Mr Cs property was worth. It just wasnt enough  to 
make a difference.
I appreciate Mr C remained unhappy with the revised figure,  but the fact remains that Clydesdale was 
still entitled to rely on the surveyors revised opinion.  I have not  because  I have  no power to do so  
considered whether the valuations were accurate  or not. My remit  doesnt extend to questioning the 
content of the reports. These were  the professional opinions of the party Clydesdale was required  to 
consult. It was entitled  to rely on those opinions  when  assessing  the suitability of Mr Cs property as 
security for a mortgage
If Mr C wishes  to pursue  this further,  he may find it beneficial to consider obtaining legal advice  on 
whether he has any grounds to pursue against  the surveyor  directly. Even if he did, we have no 
jurisdiction to consider whether the valuations were wrong, as firms of surveyors dont fall within  the 
scope of our scheme.  All I can consider here is whether  Clydesdale met its duty to Mr C regarding the 
valuations. For the reasons I have set out, I am satisfied it did.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 3 January  2020,  or sooner if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6761717