K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains that she received a letter from solicitors acting on behalf of Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as SEAT  Finance chasing repayment of a debt shed 
already repaid. She wants  an explanation and compensation for the upset caused.
background
Ms J told us that several years ago she ran into financial difficulties after taking out a hire 
agreement with SEAT.  Eventually she says she was taken to court by SEAT  and following a 
court order  she states that she made  repayments  from her wages. She states the debt was 
fully paid off during 2018. Ms J says that in March 2019 she received a letter  from a firm of 
solicitors acting for SEAT  which appeared to suggest that at least part of the debt was still 
outstanding. And she further complains of interest charges which she thinks were added to 
the debt after it had been repaid.
SEAT told us that the hire agreement started in 2011 but was terminated in September  2012 
due to arrears. It said the vehicle was repossessed at around the same time.  Subsequently it 
said it issued a court claim  in 2013 for payment of sums due. And it provided  a statement of 
account showing payments made since that time. SEAT indicated that in May 2019 legal 
fees of £871.30 had been added to Ms Js account. It confirmed that the total debt had now 
been repaid in full. SEAT stated that the letter which Ms J had been sent in March 2019,  was 
sent by new solicitors and before it had received closure from its previous solicitors. And 
now it had received this it had closed the file. It said Ms J shouldnt receive any further  
letters.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 September  2020. I said that I intended 
to uphold the complaint. I found that as SEAT had appointed both sets of solicitors to act, it 
shouldve taken up any issue about account  closure with them. There  didnt  appear  to be 
any justifiable reason  why Ms J should be contacted so long after the debt was repaid. I also 
said I didnt think it was fair and reasonable, in the absence of a court  order, to add legal 
fees and costs over six years after the agreement was terminated. 
Since my provisional decision was issued SEAT initially replied saying it would provide 
information about any legal fees and costs added to the account.  But its not followed this up 
and hasnt, so far, provided that information.  Ms J has also replied. And whilst she initially  
accepted my provisional decision, she also supplied information which  suggests that the 
initial conclusion Id drawn about  when  the costs and legal fees had been added was 
probably mistaken. 
Ms J confirmed that she had been making regular  monthly payments towards the debt - after 
the court case - from her wages. And that this was completed in March 2018. As no payment 
has been made since then and SEAT  confirms the debt is fully settled it would seem  
probable that the legal costs were  included within the payments that Ms J was repaying  
monthly.
In those circumstances it seems the entry  on the statement in May 2019 wasnt included  to 
show that an additional item was still owing. But presumably  to identify the basis of the 
specific previous payments for accounting  purposes. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
require SEAT to refund  charges arising  from the court case which were applied  to the 
account immediately  thereafter.
Ref: DRN66645482I advised Ms J of my intention to amend my provisional decision in this respect. And she 
responded saying she didnt agree with this. Whilst I understand that shes disappointed  with 
this change, as she hasnt  suggested  that she made any further payments after the debt was 
settled in March  2018, the only conclusion to be reached is that any fees were included 
within the amount  settled  by her regular monthly  repayments. Which is what  I would have  
expected.
I still find it was wrong for SEATs solicitors to have  written to Ms J as if sums were still 
outstanding. And the £100 I intended  to award  for distress and inconvenience is still 
appropriate. Ill give full reasons in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain at the outset that due to some of the circumstances relating to this complaint 
going back to 2011 and later resulting in a court decision Im limited in the scope of my 
decision. This means I cant  look at what led up to the court case  or the reasons why the 
court appears to have given judgment against  Ms J. This is partly  due to the time lapse from 
when the cause for complaint first arose.  Usually I cant look beyond a period of six years. 
Nor am I able to alter or interfere with a court decision.
Ive concentrated  on the complaint which Ms J brought after she received  a letter from a firm 
of solicitors Ill refer to as LJ in March 2019. Unfortunately,  despite  a number of requests 
SEAT hasnt supplied  me with all the information  that Ive requested. And its not entirely 
clear if SEAT fully addressed Ms Js initial complaint about this letter.  Ms J received the 
letter from LJ which was dated 18 March 2018. The letter  referred to Ms Js account with 
SEAT and read:
As you know, you have been  liaising  with S who were solicitors acting for VWFS (SEAT) in 
relation to the above matter. VWFS  (SEAT) have now asked us to act for them in place of S. 
We will write to you within  14 days with the details of your case handler and the status of 
your case.
I can understand why Ms J would be upset at receiving a solicitors letter  about  a debt if 
shed already repaid it.
On 20 March she wrote to SEAT expressing her concern  and confusion  about the letter  and 
advising that the debt had been  paid. SEAT acknowledged her complaint  but seems  to have 
thought it related to a PPI issue.  It responded  on 28 March saying there  was no PPI attached 
to the account.
Ms J replied  pointing out that the complaint was about the solicitors letter regarding the debt 
shed already paid. And she added that it was also about the interest on the debt. When Ms 
J complained to this service, SEAT acknowledged  that no investigation  had been  carried  out 
into her complaint as there was no PPI attached  to the agreement.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as much of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ref: DRN66645483Ive seen a statement of account  which appears to show that from the end of 2013 until 5 
March 2018 Ms J was making regular monthly payments which varied  from £80 to £100. 
Payments ceased  thereafter, and I infer that this was due to the debt having been repaid.  On 
16 May 2019 a sundry debit appeared on the statement in the sum of £871.30. SEAT have 
informed us that this figure related to legal fees due to having  to take the case to court. It 
said the debt had been fully repaid  and its file was now closed.
Im not sure if the interest payments which Ms J mentioned in her complaint to SEAT is in 
fact a reference to the legal fees which  appears  to be the reason for the sundry debit item 
appearing on the account in May 2019.  At my request  our investigator wrote to SEAT and 
sought clarification.  SEAT  hasnt replied with a full explanation, so I intend to rely on the 
information which Ms J has recently supplied.
The limited  information  available  shows that Ms J had repaid the debt in full by March  2018. 
And there appears to be no justifiable reason why LJ sent its letter  over a year later which  
inferred it was taking  over the administration of the debt from S. Both solicitors  were 
instructed by SEAT.  And if SEAT hadnt been  notified by the first solicitors, S, that the debt 
had been repaid a year earlier that would appear  to be a matter for SEAT to take up with S.
I think it lacks  empathy to downplay Ms Js concerns simply by saying it hadnt received 
notice of closure from S. And state  that now it had, Ms J wouldnt  receive  any more letters 
about the matter.  It failed  to properly acknowledge the impact upon  Ms J.
Anyone who has been repaying a debt over several  years following a court judgment is likely 
to feel a sense  of relief  when the debt is finally repaid. To then receive a letter a year later 
which implied that there may be still be part of the debt remaining is likely  to have been 
particularly worrying to Ms J. I think SEAT should  pay £100  in compensation for this error  to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
In summary,  I find that SEAT was responsible for the erroneous actions of its solicitors in 
writing to Ms J about a debt which had been  repaid  a year or more previously. But Ive not 
seen any information  which  now leads me to think that interest charges or legal costs  were 
added after the debt had been  repaid  in March 2018. Or that Ms J has been required to 
make any payments since then.
Im upholding her complaint to the extent  that she should not have been  contacted  in the 
manner she was about a debt that shed repaid. And that this caused her distress  and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN66645484my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  in part.
I now require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as SEAT  Finance to pay 
£100 to Ms J for distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6664548