K820x#14complaint
Mrs F on behalf  of Mr and Mrs D has complained  about the way a claim under their home 
insurance policy was handled by U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
In 2016 Mr and Mrs D contacted UKI three  times under their home emergency cover 
because of problems  with their toilet. Each  time UKI sent someone to carry out a repair.  Not 
long after they were having work done to their bathroom. They say according to their 
bathroom fitter the toilet was still leaking underneath the tiles and had caused  a lot of 
damage to walls and floors in their home.
They made another claim to UKI. It agreed  to dry the property and carry out the repairs as a 
new claim. It said it couldnt guarantee that the property wouldnt become damp again in 
future because there were  some pre-existing damp proofing issues. A few months after the 
work had been  completed, Mr and Mrs D noticed damp in a wall which  UKIs  contractor  had 
repaired. 
Mr and Mrs D complained  to UKI that they shouldnt  have had to pay another excess  on the 
second claim and also that they had to pay to have the dampness repaired. They think the 
damp was caused  by UKIs contractor not carrying out the work properly under the second  
claim. They also say UKIs contractor  fraudulently  claimed for work that wasnt  completed 
and thats increased  the cost of their premiums.
UKI said the wall in question had a pre-existing problem  with damp. Because of that it said it 
wasnt liable to correct  the damp problem. It said there were a few slight discrepancies on the 
schedule of work prepared by its contractor but it only gets billed for work actually carried out. 
It paid Mr and Mrs D £300 compensation for poor service at times during the claim.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to this service. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  the complaint. He 
didnt think there was any expert evidence to say that UKIs original repairs  had caused the 
leak or that the damp was connected to UKIs repairs. 
As Mr and Mrs D didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether UKIs  original  repairs to the toilet  caused  the second  claim. UKIs 
contractor reported  that thered been a long term slow leak from push fitting in bathroom 
behind pipe boxing section. It didnt  say whether this was related to the earlier  repairs. 
Ultimately its for Mr and Mrs D to show that it was if they want  UKI to waive the second 
excess. I havent seen any expert evidence to link this leak to the repairs  carried  out as part 
of the home emergency claims.  So Im not persuaded  UKI treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly  or 
unreasonably in making them pay an excess for the second claim.
Mr and Mrs Ds policy doesnt cover them for damage caused gradually  over a period  of 
time. I think damp  is an example of this. So UKI would only be liable to repair  Mr and Mrs Ds 
damp problem if it was caused by its inadequate repairs as part of the second  claim.
Ref: DRN67762702Before UKIs  drying company started  work at Mr and Mrs Ds property as part of the second 
claim, they found  high levels of damp. They checked  plaster samples from the wall and 
found nitrates were  present in them.  They said this indicated that the damp  was caused by a 
failure of the damp proof course rather than the water leak. 
UKIs contractor wrote  to Mr and Mrs D explaining  that it had found  pre-existing damp  issues 
and said the work it was going to carry out is not a guaranteed damp proofing solution  so it 
is not unlikely  that dampness  may re-occur  in the future. Mr and Mrs D replied saying that 
they understood this and they still wanted the work  to be carried out.
With this in mind Im not convinced that the damp issues which  came  to light after the repairs 
were likely to be UKIs fault.
Mr and Mrs D have made UKI aware  of several  items on the schedule  of works which 
werent done - for example the schedule  referred to the contractor replacing the skirting 
board in Mr and Mrs Ds bathroom when in fact there was no skirting board in that room. But 
there were 84 items in the schedule and schedules of work are often drawn up after a 
relatively quick inspection,  so I agree with UKI its not unusual  for there to be some mistakes. 
None of the mistakes  appear to be major pieces of work. I also think it unlikely that a 
contractor would jeopardise its relationship with an insurer by deliberately  charging  for work 
it hadnt carried out. Overall I dont  think the mistakes pointed  out by Mr and Mrs D prove 
that UKIs  contractor was fraudulently inflating the final bill. 
I can see there were delays and some  poor service  on this claim. In particular no work 
was carried out for just under one month  at the end of 2016. Even taking into account 
the Christmas holiday period this was too long and meant Mr and Mrs D had to stay in 
alternative accommodation longer than they would otherwise have needed  to. Mrs D 
also had to chase  UKI unnecessarily  on a number  of occasions. UKI has paid £300  
compensation for service issues. Taking  into account the impact  on Mr and Mrs D, I think 
this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs D 
believe that the compensation was paid for a data protection  breach but thats not what  
UKI said in its final response to their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6776270