K821x#15complaint
Ms M, represented by a claims management company (CMC), says that Western Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  lent money  to her that she couldnt afford  to repay.
background
Ms M entered into six loans with Cashfloat between April and October  2016.  At the time she 
says she was dependent on payday  loans and was borrowing to make her repayments. The 
CMC says that the loans made  Ms Ms situation worse by making it more difficult for her to 
achieve a long term solution to her financial issues. It says that had sufficient affordability 
check been carried out before the loans were provided Cashfloat  would  have realised the 
loans shouldnt have  been provided.
Cashfloat says that each  of Ms Ms applications was subject to a comprehensive affordability 
and creditworthiness  assessment in line with the relevant  guidelines. It says that income and 
expenditure information was gathered and verified and that credit  checks  were  carried out. It 
says that Ms Ms declared disposable income  was sufficient for her to meet  her repayments  
and that she had a reasonable credit  profile.  It said that the total amount Ms M had 
outstanding relating to short term loans and instalment credit, was approximately £2800  
which it said didnt appear excessive compared  to her salary. It says Ms M didnt say she 
was experiencing financial  difficulties at the time of the loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint in regard to loans four to six. She said that 
proportionate checks by loan four would most likely have  shown Ms M was having problems 
managing her money. She was borrowing  from several  other payday lenders  at the time and 
this continued  during  the period when loans five and six were provided.  She said this 
suggested a dependency on short term borrowing and that Cashfloat should  have realised  it 
was unlikely Ms M would  be able to sustainably repay these loans.
Cashfloat didnt  accept our adjudicators view. It reiterated that it carried out proportionate 
checks and the loans appeared affordable. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Ms M accepts my decision  it is legally 
binding on both parties.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts  and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN62558592But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
I can see that checks were carried out in regard to Ms Ms income, expenses and 
creditworthiness. I think these were  reasonable in regard to the early  loans. However,  as our 
adjudicator explained by the time Ms M took out the fourth loan Cashfloat should  have been 
concerned that Ms M was having  problems manging  her money. I say this because  this was 
her fourth loan in less than four months and the third and fourth  loans were  taken  out as 
soon as the previous loans were repaid. I think this should have  raised concern that Ms M 
was possibly dependent on short term borrowing.
I note the comments Cashfloat  has made about the outstanding amount Ms M had in other  
loans and instalment  credit. I have looked  through the information provided and can see that 
Ms M was making use of a number of other  short term credit  providers at the time of the 
loans and her pattern  of borrowing suggests she was needing to take out new loans to repay 
existing debt. Given this I dont think that loans  four to six were sustainable and dont  think  
these should have bene provided to Ms M.
I think that Ms M lost out because Cashfloat  continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness  by 
Ref: DRN62558593allowing her to take expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
So Im also upholding  this complaint  in regard to loans four to six.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  four to six. Western Circle 
Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Ms M paid on loans four to six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans four to six should  be removed from 
Ms Ms credit file.
*HMRC requires  you to take off tax from this interest. If Ms M asks you for a certificate 
showing how much  tax youve taken off, you should provide this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6255859