K820x#14complaint
Mr R brings a complaint  on behalf  of his late mothers  estate. Hes unhappy with how 
Threadneedle Investment Services Limited   trading as Columbia Threadneedle  
Investments  handled her account following notification of her passing. He feels the value of 
her investments fell dramatically, the probate policy was restrictive and more could have 
been done to protect  her interests.
background
Mrs R inherited  investments from her late husband.  Her son, Mr R, had power of attorney for 
her account.  But sadly,  Mrs R passed  away last summer. The solicitors who were handling 
her estate wrote to Threadneedle to notify  them of her passing in July. 
Threadneedle wrote  back a week later with some valuations to help with the probate  
process. Within the letter they mentioned that before they could take any further action on 
the account, theyd need  some form of legal  document to confirm whoever was instructing it 
had the authority to do so.
The solicitors sent Threadneedle a copy of Mrs Rs grant of probate  in late October. It 
named Mr R as her executor. In line with instructions given, Threadneedle sold Mrs Rs 
investments in early  November and forwarded the proceeds to the solicitors. 
Mr R was disappointed  to see that his mothers investments were sold for almost £4,300 less 
than the valuation given in the summer. So he made a complaint. He felt Threadneedle had 
failed in their duty of care and that they could have  done a better  job of protecting  and 
managing his mothers investments. He was also unhappy that the sale notification letter 
didnt explain the reduction in value,  so he asked for the summer value to be honoured.
Threadneedle looked into Mr Rs concerns  but didnt agree  theyd  done  anything wrong  
they explained they couldnt take any action  until the grant of probate was received and that 
as the funds had remained invested, they were subject to market  fluctuations.  Mr R 
remained unhappy with this, and because hed had another letter saying his mother  had a 
client money account open with Threadneedle  too. So he asked for our help.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened but having done so, she didnt think 
Threadneedle had done anything wrong.  So Mr R asked for the case  to be reconsidered by 
an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr R, but I agree with our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
the need for grant  of probate  
Mr R says Threadneedles  requirements  around grant  of probate  were  incorrect  and that 
their policy on needing  the document is at their own discretion  and that discretion was 
exercised to his detriment. 
Ref: DRN62868982But Threadneedles stance  here is right  when someone passes away and leaves  a will, the 
probate process confirms the wills  validity and whos allowed to deal with the estate. 
Threadneedle needed the grant of probate before allowing  further action on the account   
without it, they could not be certain  that Mr R was the right person to take instructions  from.   
This isnt Threadneedle  being difficult  instead  its quite normal and its something our 
service would need to see before we helped  with someones estate too. So while I can 
appreciate Mr Rs concerns, Im afraid  this wasnt something Threadneedle could have done 
instead. 
obligations Threadneedle had to Mrs Rs account
Mr R feels Threadneedle should  have taken better care of his mothers  investments following 
her passing   especially as he wasnt able to manage them  himself  while  probate  was being 
obtained. But having had a look at the terms of her account, there wasnt any duty on 
Threadneedle to manage the portfolio during  this period.
Mrs Rs account was execution-only meaning  she, or Mr R as her attorney, made  the 
investment decisions   such as whether to move  money from one of her funds to another. 
So it wasnt  ever Threadneedles  job to review her portfolio  and move  money  around  they 
didnt have those  sorts  of permissions and instead  just hosted the wrapper for her funds to 
be invested. 
Mrs Rs money  was spread across  four different funds.  Its likely each will have had a 
different focus  and aim, and will have been  overseen by a fund manager. These managers 
will have made  investment decisions that affected  the entire fund, not solely  Mrs Rs money.  
They might, for example,  have  made  a decision to move some money from a focus on one 
sector to another,  or perhaps one stock to another. But these managers  wouldnt have  
reviewed Mrs Rs portfolio  they didnt have authority to do that, nor was it their job  they 
ran the overall  funds  and they werent responsible for the suitability  of them  on a personal 
level.
Mr R makes the point that had his mothers holdings been into the millions of pounds,  things 
would have been handled differently. But for the same reasons as I have explained above, 
this wouldnt have been the case as it wasnt for Threadneedle to take any sort of action on 
this account. Mr R queried a sum that was re-invested, but that wasnt Threadneedle  making  
investment decisions  for Mrs R, it was simply making sure any income generated  was paid 
back into investment, rather than paid out as cash.
Although it took almost  four months to sell the investments, I havent seen Threadneedle  
caused any delays.  They responded to the initial notification within a week  and once  they 
received probate they sold the funds quickly too. So I dont think  any delays caused by them  
contributed to the reduced values of the funds  this was a result  of the underlying  markets  
that Mrs Rs funds exposed her to. I appreciate Mr R feels  the investments shouldnt have 
remained in force and that Threadneedle ought to have surrendered them and awaited  
instruction  but just as the values fell, they could equally  have  risen  and Mr R may then be 
claiming for missed opportunity. As it wasnt up to Threadneedle to decide what  to do with 
Mrs Rs investments, I dont think they need to compensate her estate. 
Ref: DRN62868983other concerns
Mr R was unhappy that after asking for the account to be closed, he got another letter  
showing some  money  was being  held in a client money account. He says he didnt know 
about this account, and given hed instructed for Mrs Rs account  to be closed  this ought to 
have been closed too. 
The client  money  account wont have been  opened  by Mrs R  its just something 
Threadneedle had to do to meet their regulatory  requirements. They  have to hold client 
money separate to firm money. Threadneedle have confirmed that the residual money in this 
account was a compensation payment made  in relation to the investment transfer from 
Mr Rs late father. Nevertheless,  the account  has now been  closed.
Mr R also queried another  separate payment for just over £300 that was forwarded to the 
solicitors. But just as our investigator explained, that was a dividend  payment that was 
received after the investments were sold, so Threadneedle were just forwarding that on. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6286898