K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that, without his permission, Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  gave his brother 
details about a complaint that hed raised with it.
background
Mr P complained to Lloyds that a transfer  to an account held with a different bank, B, hadnt  
been completed. This resulted in direct  debits from his account with B being missed. The 
issue with the transfer had been  caused by an error  with Lloyds system.
On the same  day, Mr Ps brother, who I will call Mr A in this decision, phoned the bank to 
complain about  the same  type of problem  occurring on his account  an issue  with a faster 
payment not being made as requested. In the call with Mr A, the representative told him that 
he wouldnt  be able to make another complaint as hed already  raised  one earlier that day. 
But Mr A hadnt already  made a complaint that day, the representative was referring to the 
complaint which  had been raised  by Mr P. Part of the conversation between the 
representative and Mr A is set out below. 
Lloyds we appreciate that there  were  some issues  with you making these payments on 
Friday but we can see that about  an hour ago you have already raised this other 
complaint with us where compensation was agreed and for your call costs as well.
Mr A.Me? Me?
Lloyds Did you call us about an hour ago to raise  a complaint?
Mr A.No I didnt.
Lloyds Ok because it does mention two payments  that were due to go to a B account but it 
does also state on the complaint that it was a direct debit  that was missed.  
Mr A.Thats my brother  he shares  the same surname as me.
Lloyds So hes faced the exact same issue as you as well to a B account as well?
Mr A.I dont know  about him I just know that he also has a B account as well.
Lloyds Ok so lets have a look into this further then
Mr P got in touch with Lloyds. It accepted it shouldnt have disclosed information to the 
wrong person  and upheld his complaint. To put things right, Lloyds took the following steps:
1.Confirmed that no further details were  disclosed to Mr A other than that a complaint 
existed and the nature of it;
2.Apologised for its error and any upset or inconvenience itd caused; and
3.Paid Mr P compensation of £255 for any distress  and inconvenience caused  and 
towards the cost of phone calls.
Mr P was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service.  He told our adjudicator  
this matter has had a significant impact  on him. 
-It caused him stress   he doesnt trust discussing matters or giving  his details over 
the phone. This has impacted his ability to book a holiday and manage a loan he has 
already missed some payments for which has led to extra  fees and interest. 
-It was embarrassing for him that Mr A was told hed missed  a direct debit. Mr A and 
his family  keep checking up on him to make  sure he has enough money  to pay his 
direct debits.  This has also caused  a breakdown in the relationship  he has with them.  
-He was diagnosed with depression in January 2019 as a result  of this issue. 
-He feels like the working class has no voice against major financial institutions.
Ref: DRN66546832To put things right, he wants  Lloyds to explain how this happened,  a written  apology from the 
staff member at Lloyds and a significant  amount of compensation.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought from what shed  seen that Lloyds had taken 
the appropriate steps to compensate Mr P in this matter. She also confirmed that no financial  
details had been shared  with Mr A. So she didnt feel Lloyds needed  do anything further.
Mr P disagrees and this matter has now been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I have to tell Mr P that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. Ill explain why.
The key facts about this arent in dispute. Lloyds has admitted it got things wrong by 
disclosing information to the wrong person. The only issue I have to decide is whether the 
things it has done  to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate what Mr P has said about the impact on him. And I think that Lloyds should put 
things right after sharing  information with the wrong person without Mr Ps permission. 
However, I think its important to keep in mind that:
-Lloyds didnt tell Mr A that it was Mr Ps complaint they had mistakenly  referred to. 
-Although during  the conversation they agreed theyd made a mistake, no account 
information or personal information for Mr P was given to Mr A. 
The issue  with the payment not being  made was as a result of a bank error in the way Lloyds 
was processing faster  payments  on that particular day. So I dont think Lloyds can be 
responsible for Mr Ps family  questioning him about  whether  he has enough  money in his 
account to cover his direct  debits and any breakdown in their relationship as a result of these 
issues. Particularly when  Mr A had a similar issue with faster  payments on the same day and 
wouldve understood this was a caused  by a bank error and was outside  of Mr Ps control.
I also think its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to 
compensate consumers, not punish  organisations. We look at the impact any mistakes have 
had on the particular consumer concerned. I can see from what has been said by Mr P that 
he has found this situation very stressful. But I think Lloyds  took this matter seriously and 
took steps to reduce the impact of what had happened. It apologised to Mr P, assured him 
that no further details were disclosed  to Mr A and paid him total compensation of £255  for 
any distress and inconvenience caused  by this and call costs. Like the investigator,  I believe 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr P has been reassured by Lloyds and our investigator that no financial details were shared 
with Mr A. I havent seen  anything to suggest  this happened or that there have been  other  
data breaches.
Finally, Im not ignoring the fact that Mr P has said that this matter has triggered a diagnosis  
of depression and theres been an impact  on his ability to discuss financial matters on the 
Ref: DRN66546833phone or book a holiday.  But I havent seen any evidence of this. Even so, for the reasons  
set out above,  I think that Lloyds took steps to minimise  the impact  this had on Mr P when he 
contacted them about this. So I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably  hold the bank 
responsible for these  things.
I know that Mr P has told us that he feels strongly about Lloyds sharing his information  with 
Mr A and hes considered  contacting the police about this. But my role is to consider whether 
Lloyds have acted  fairly  and reasonably  in putting things right in relation to the information it 
shared with Mr A about Mr Ps complaint and without permission. And I think it has for the 
reasons set out above.
Having said this, I think its important  to explain that were an informal dispute resolution 
service and its not my role to determine  if there  has been a data breach  by a company or 
fraud committed. That would be for other  bodies   such  as the police,  court and information 
commissioners office - to decide. 
I know Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with Lloyds  can do for him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint in this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6654683