K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with their mortgage.
background
Mrs and Mr C took out a mortgage in 2000, and alongside it a monthly paid PPI policy. The 
PPI and mortgage was taken out at a meeting  with the building society. The policy gave 
them unemployment cover only. It cost around £20 per month after 12 months  of free cover. 
It wouldve  covered their mortgage  repayments of around £600 per month. The cover  was 
split equally between them, and they were covered for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr C didnt accept our adjudicators 
view and so their complaint has been  passed to me to consider. They  said, in summary, 
Mrs Cs mother  had her own business at the time,  and she wouldve paid their mortgage if 
they got into difficulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive taken into account everything that Mrs and Mr C have said,  but Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Mrs and Mr C had to agree  to 
take it. I cant know what was discussed at the meeting with Nationwide.  Mrs and Mr C said 
they were led to believe they had to take PPI to get the mortgage. 
Ive seen the paperwork Mrs and Mr C signed.  They opted to take PPI on the mortgage 
application and I can see from their mortgage  offer that PPI wasnt compulsory. I think the 
paperwork made it clear that PPI was an optional and separate product. I havent seen or 
heard enough to persuade me that more likely  than not they were told that they had to take 
PPI to get the mortgage. 
I also think it likely that they wouldve understood they had a choice, because they chose to 
take unemployment cover only. I can see from their mortgage application that at first, they 
also opted to take an extra £100 of cover per month  on top of their monthly mortgage 
repayment. Later this was changed  so just their monthly repayment  was covered. This 
suggests to me that there was a discussion about  PPI and Mrs and Mr C decided to take the 
type and level of cover that best suited  their needs at that time. I think it more likely that they 
opted to take out PPI and signed the paperwork to say they wanted it. 
So, I cant fairly uphold  their complaint on this ground.
From what  Ive seen and heard, and what we know about Nationwides sales  processes, 
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  PPI to Mrs and Mr C, so it didnt have  to check PPI 
Ref: DRN66238662was suitable for their needs. But, Nationwide did need to give them clear information about 
the PPI so they could decide  whether they wanted  to buy it. I think  the policy  was 
appropriate for them because:
they were eligible  for the PPI  that is, they qualified to be covered by the insurance;
they dont  appear to have been  affected  by the main limitations or exclusions in the 
policy so as they couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered. I cant see that 
having better information about  these things wouldve  changed their decision to take out 
PPI;
both Mrs and Mr C were working. They said they were entitled to sick pay through  their 
employers. This may be why they opted to take out unemployment cover only. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits  paid for unemployment, for up to 12 
months per successful claim. Given that the policy was protecting  their home,  possibly 
their single largest asset, and they could  make repeat claims on the policy,  I think PPI 
couldve provided them with a valuable benefit.
They said Mrs Cs mother wouldve  helped  out with their repayments, if needs  be. I 
accept she may have wanted  to, but help of this kind cant always  be guaranteed when 
the time comes, so I havent placed  much  reliance on this. I cant  see their other  
resources made  the policy inappropriate for them.
The policy was free for the first 12 months; this may have incentivised  them  to take out 
the cover. But, Nationwide  did tell them up front,  what the cost would be after the free 
period was up. It seems likely that they wouldve thought the cost was acceptable and 
affordable given that they signed to say they wanted PPI. It was a monthly paid policy  so 
they couldve cancelled it at any time without  losing out financially.
Ive taken into account everything that Mrs and Mr C have said.  I dont think  Mrs and Mr C 
have lost out because of anything that Nationwide may have  done  wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6623866