K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out mortgages with B&B in 1987  and 1994.  They  took out a further 
advance in 2003. They were sold PPI in connection with these mortgages and further 
advance. 
Mr and Mrs K have  also said that they were sold PPI in connection with a mortgage in 1984.  
However, B&B say they did not sell PPI in 1984. Mr and Mrs K have also been  unable to 
provide any evidence to support that they were sold PPI in connection with that mortgage.  
So for the purposes of this decision,  I have considered the PPI policies taken out alongside 
the mortgages in 1987, 1994 and the further  advance in 2003.  
The PPI taken out in 1987 covered both Mr and Mrs K. However, the policies taken out in 
1994 and 2003 only covered Mr K. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ks mis-sale complaint should be upheld. Mr and  
Mrs K didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about the mis-sale of 
PPI. I appreciate Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed by this outcome but it is of course  up to 
them whether they accept  or reject my decision. I will now explain why Ive reached this 
outcome.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs K were eligible under the policy/ies. Based on 
their age, residence and employment, Im satisfied they were eligible at the relevant time/s.
B&B had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs K that the PPI was optional  and needed  their 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Mr and Mrs K say they were told they had 
to have PPI as part of their mortgage  deal. They say they were pressured  into taking PPI.
Of course I cant  know for sure what happened during the sales.  So Ive thought carefully 
about what Mr and Mrs K and B&B have told us and looked to the documents  from the time 
of the sale to help me decide  what is more  likely  to have  happened.
With regard to the PPI sold in (July) 1987,  Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application form. 
This provided Mr and Mrs K with an option to take PPI. There is nothing on this form which 
would imply that PPI had to be taken out. I note that Mr and Mrs K have completed the 
Ref: DRN65155062monthly cover amount and how it is to be split between them. They  have both signed this 
document. Mr and Mrs K cancelled this policy the following month.
With regard to the PPI sold in 1994,  again Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form. 
This had a separate section titled Insurance  Details. Within this section were questions 
about PPI. In particular,  this part of the form provided Mr and Mrs K with two equally clear  
options as to whether or not to take PPI. I note that this has been completed with a Yes 
and Mr and Mrs K have signed  this form. They  also appear to have selected  the level of 
cover required.
With regard to PPI sold in 2003, I can see that Mr K completed a separate PPI application  
form and signed  it. There is nothing to indicate  on this form that PPI is compulsory.
So all in all, while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs K have told us, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think its more  likely that B&B made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs K that the PPI was optional  
and that they agreed to take it out knowing they didnt have to. And I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to conclude  that its more likely that Mr and Mrs K were  pressured into taking PPI.
B&B accept  they advised Mr and Mrs K to take PPI. This means they had to take adequate 
steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for them. Having  considered  Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances at the time of the sales, I think the PPI was suitable. I say this because:
-In 1987, if Mr and/or Mrs K were off work sick, the PPI would have paid out until they 
returned to work. So it would  have  been  potentially for a much  longer period of time 
than any existing employee sick pay provisions they may have held. It would  also 
have paid out in addition  to any redundancy pay they may have  been  entitled to. The 
letter from Mr Ks employer  in respect  of the 1994 policy confirms  that Mr K would 
only been entitled to statutory sick pay. The PPI would have paid out in addition to  
Mr Ks sick pay and for a much  longer period  of time  up to 12 months.  It would also 
have covered the repayments if Mr K lost his job in addition  to any redundancy pay 
Mr K may have been  entitled to. And I havent  seen any evidence  to suggest that    
Mr Ks employee benefits in 2003, if any, were such that the PPI would not have 
been suitable for him. 
-Mr and Mrs K say they had savings  to help meet the repayments. In their initial  
complaint they say they had less than three  months  worth  of pay in savings. This 
appears to be in 1984. Its unclear  how much  they had in savings at the time of the 
various PPI sales. And I havent  seen any evidence  of these savings.  But even if Mr 
and Mrs K did have the savings  they say they had, I dont think this made the policy  
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs K. The PPI was protecting a valuable  asset and the 
savings could have  helped with other essential  living expenses while the PPI covered 
the mortgage repayments.
-Mr and Mrs K didnt  appear to have  been affected by the main  exclusions and/or 
restrictions in the policy. So it looks like she could have made  a successful claim 
under the policy  if the need  arose.
-Mr and Mrs K could  have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
-I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and   
Mrs K.
Ref: DRN65155063As well as checking the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs K, B&B also had to give Mr and  
Mrs K information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that they could make  an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, this would have been 
information about the costs, benefits and main  exclusions in the policies.
I dont know if B&B gave  Mr and Mrs K all of the information as they should have but I dont 
think better information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for the same  
reasons that I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs K.
Having taken everything into consideration, I dont think B&B mis-sold  Mr and Mrs K PPI. So 
I dont think B&B has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. But B&B will pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K in respect  of the policies sold in 1994  and 
2003 because: 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because B&B didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs K have  said. But these points dont change  my 
decision for the reasons already set out.
what the business needs  to do in respect of the policies sold in 1994 and 2003
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. B&B should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs K any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs K the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs K 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs K can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  in relation to the policies sold 
in connection  with the mortgage and further advance  in 1994 and 2003 respectively.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Ref: DRN65155064Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6515506