K822xcomplaint
Mr C, through his parents who are representing him, complains that TSB Bank plc will not 
refund money  he lost, after he fell victim to a scam.
background 
I issued a provisional decision  which is attached to and forms part of this final decision, in 
May 2020. In my provisional decision I explained  why I was minded  to uphold the complaint 
in part. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C has nothing further to add and TSB have agreed with the settlement proposed  in my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.  I remain of the view that this decision should be partially 
upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is I partially uphold Mr Cs complaint 
against TSB Bank  plc. I require TSB Bank  plc to:
refund  the remaining  £73,805.77  (from  £20,000 CHAPS payment onwards) Mr C lost 
through the scam
refund  Mr C any charges associated  with the payments he made in branch
TSB should pay 8% interest (from date of transaction to the date of reimbursement)
pay Mr C £300 for the trouble and upset  caused  (in addition to the £50 already paid)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION  
complaint
Mr C, through his parents who are representing him, complains that TSB Bank plc will not 
refund money  he lost, after he fell victim to a scam.
Ref: DRN64139422background
In October  2016, Mr C was approached and befriended  by somebody on Facebook. 
Unbeknown to Mr C at the time, the person he was in contact with was a fraudster. It is not 
in dispute that what  happened was fraud,  so I have used the term fraudster  throughout to 
refer to the third party involved.
While Mr C is represented by his parents, I thought it particularly important in this case to get 
first hand  testimony  from Mr C and so I have spoken to him. Mr Cs recollections do differ  in 
places, from his representatives account  and from what is detailed in TSBs  final response 
letter. I will note those differences below and then consider these in my findings.
Based on the submissions made  by all parties, I understand the scam occurred as follows:
At some point in October 2016,  Mr C was approached by an individual  on Facebook.  Mr C 
formed a relationship with this person   but unbeknown to him at the time this was a 
fraudster. The fraudster  initially asked  Mr C for some financial help, while  she worked in 
Ghana and he sent her £200.00 by cheque, which cleared on 4 October 2016.
Following this, over a two-week  period from 7 November 2016, Mr C made five further 
payments. These were made  up of a cheque for £850.00 and four payments via 
MoneyGram, to an account in Ghana,  totalling  £1,229.70. Mr Cs representatives have told 
us Mr C was instructed what to do by the fraudster, as he wouldnt have known how to make  
payments through MoneyGram. When I spoke to Mr C, he told me the person who hed 
befriended, gave  him a different name for who he should make the MoneyGram  payments  
to, but he couldnt remember  why shed  asked him to do this.
Later the same month, thinking  he was in a relationship, Mr C sent the fraudster a sexually 
explicit image. The fraudster then began asking Mr C for larger  sums of money   she told 
him unless  he sent larger sums of money to her, the image  hed sent would be posted on the 
internet, but Mr C says she also told him hed get this money  back. Following this instruction, 
and still believing  he was in some sort of a relationship  with the fraudster,  Mr C visited  a TSB 
branch on 22 November 2016  and made  a CHAPS payment for £20,000. Mr C didnt visit his 
usual branch, but instead visited a different TSB branch which weve  been told was about  18 
miles away from his home. 
It was previously noted that Mr C made the payment of £20,000  as a result  of blackmail. 
Upon speaking with Mr C, he has said he didnt know he was being blackmailed at the time  
it was only when the police got involved that he understood  he had been blackmailed and 
was the victim of a crime. Mr C has said he thought he was just lending someone money 
and felt quite relaxed  when he requested the payment as he didnt recognise a threat had 
been made against him.
Mr C has also told me he didnt  know who he was making this CHAPS payment to. Unlike  
the MoneyGram payments, where he was given a name of who to pay, for this payment 
Mr C was only given the account details for where to make the payment, but not the name of 
who it was going  to. Mr C told me he didnt  go to his local branch as he was worried  if he did, 
staff there would try and prevent  him making  the payment.  He thought  they would phone his 
parents, as he and his parents were  known to some  staff,  and he was worried about what  
they would  think. I asked  Mr C why he was worried, but he wasnt  able to articulate why.
Ref: DRN64139423Mr C then continued to send the fraudster  money. Between 29 November 2016 and 11 May 
2017, he sent a further 26 payments using his debit card, via Money Gram, totalling a further  
£13,805.77. Alongside  this, he issued two cheques  to the fraudster, totalling £20,000 and 
then between 26 May 2017  and 30 June 2017 he made four faster  payments in branch, for 
£5,000 each. 
In total, Mr C lost £76,085.47 in payments he made  to the fraudster. Mr C also made other 
payments to the fraudster from accounts  he held with different banks  but my decision will 
solely be focussed on the payments that Mr C made from his TSB accounts. 
I have set out a full list of the 38 payments Mr C made to the fraudster below;
Date Place/location Type of transaction Amount
04/10/16 Cheque issued Cheque issued £200.00
07/11/16 Cheque issued Cheque issued £850.00
07/11/16 ATM Cash withdrawal, appears  to have 
been then sent via MoneyGram£300.00
14/11/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £309.90
18/11/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £309.90
21/11/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £309.90
22/11/16 in branch CHAPS payment with £30 fee £20,000
29/11/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £309.90
02/12/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £309.90
12/12/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £363.99
16/12/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £413.99
19/12/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £309.90
21/12/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £309.90
30/12/16 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £413.39
09/01/17 Post Office via MoneyGram using debit card £413.99
18/01/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £468.99
24/01/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £468.99
06/02/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £518.99
13/02/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £518.99
14/02/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £518.99
21/02/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £518.99
22/02/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £518.99
10/03/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £779.99
13/03/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £618.99
15/03/17 Cheque issued Cheque issued £15,000
22/03/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £618.99
03/04/17 Cheque issued Cheque issued £5,000
03/04/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £518.99
03/04/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £413.99
10/04/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £468.99
20/04/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £518.99
21/04/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £729.99
25/04/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £729.99
02/05/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £729.99
02/05/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £779.99
Ref: DRN6413942411/05/17 Post Office  via MoneyGram using debit card £518.99
26/05/17 in branch Faster payment £5,000
01/06/17 in branch Faster payment £5,000
06/06/17 in branch Faster payment £5,000
30/06/17 in branch from savings  
account ending  1760Faster payment £5,000
Mr Cs representatives have explained the fraud only came to light when they were 
contacted by the police as part of a wider  police investigation. Mr Cs name had emerged 
from another investigation the police had been carrying  out and the police were concerned 
for Mr C and wanted to protect him. At this point, in July 2017,  Mr C realised he had been  
blackmailed and the fraud was reported to TSB. 
Mr Cs parents, on behalf of Mr C, complained to TSB. They  explained Mr C has difficulties 
communicating and had been classed by the police as a vulnerable adult when they were  
investigating the fraud. Mr Cs parents said that while Mr C can do many  things 
independently, he has difficulty with his communication,  and hes not always able to process 
information as expected   these difficulties have been recognised  as far back as Mr Cs 
early school years. Theyve said that had Mr C been  asked  any detailed questions  hed have 
been unable  to answer them.
They didnt think TSB had done  enough to prevent the payments being  made  and didnt 
think TSB had protected a vulnerable customer.  
TSB didnt  uphold the complaint and issued their final response in November  2017.  They  
said they didnt  think any mistake had been  made  and as Mr C had willingly made the 
payments, they couldnt be held liable. TSB said, although they recognised  Mr C had fallen 
victim to a sophisticated scam, payments had been  debited with authorisation  provided  by 
Mr C through his Chip and PIN - and by attending a branch to request the other transactions.  
They said no payment  flags or suspicions were  raised surrounding the payments made to 
MoneyGram  as payments made using Chip and PIN are naturally assumed to be genuine, 
as the account  holder would be the only individual able to authorise the transactions. 
TSB added they had never been made  aware  of Mr Cs vulnerabilities  and therefore they 
would have no reason to question the requests made in branch. TSB said colleagues from 
the branch, where the payments were  made,  have said initial  questions  surrounding the 
reasons for the payments were asked  and Mr C told them  he was sending  the payments to 
a friend.  Because of this TSB said no further challenges were made. They said there was 
little they could do if Mr C was prepared to send  money to blackmailers, rather  than contact  
the police. 
Overall, TSB didnt agree an error had been  made in allowing the transactions to debit        
Mr Cs account and they didnt feel more should  have been  done to prevent the payments 
being made. TSB did acknowledge  it had taken them longer than normal to investigate and 
respond to Mr Cs complaint  in recognition of this they made a payment of £50 to Mr Cs 
account. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service in September  2017.  One of our investigators 
looked into things  and sent their initial thoughts  to TSB and asked if TSB would like to 
reconsider their position. TSB didnt  respond to our investigators question and so I 
contacted TSB with my initial thoughts. I explained I was minded to ask them to refund Mr C 
the amount hed lost from the point  hed made  the payment of £20,000 in branch. I said this 
Ref: DRN64139425as I didnt think TSB had gone far enough to prevent the fraud from this point. TSB didnt 
agree that a refund should be given and so Ill go on to explain my provisional  findings in 
more detail below.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like TSB are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Firms are also required  to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money  laundering 
and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. In 2014 those requirements 
included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures  to 
identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through  customer 
due diligence  measures and the ongoing  monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken  throughout the course of 
the relationship).    
Firms also have  a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish  
and maintain effective  systems and controls  for countering  the risk they might be 
used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has applied  since 2001).
Over the years, the regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (from April 2013) and its 
predecessor the Financial Services Authority, has issued a series  of papers setting out 
examples of good and poor practice found  when  reviewing measures banks take to counter 
financial crime, including:    
In December 2011, PS 11/15 Financial crime: a guide for firms
 
In June 2012, Banks defences against investment fraud  Detecting  perpetrators 
and protecting  victims  which considered  banks  efforts to counter fraud, and in 
particular investment fraud both where  their customer was a fraudster and where  the 
customer is the victim. 
Ref: DRN64139426 
In April 2015 Financial crime: a guide  for firms  Part 1: A firms guide to preventing  
financial crime which consolidated  FCA guidance on financial crime based primarily 
on its predecessors thematic  reviews.
Examples of good practice included in the June  2012 investment fraud paper included: real 
time payment screening against a well formulated  watch list; transaction monitoring  rules 
designed to detect specific types  of investment fraud; banks actively  contacting  customers  if 
suspect payments are identified; banks placing material on investment fraud  on its website; 
work to detect and prevent investment fraud being  integrated with a banks vulnerable  
customers initiative.
The FSA also explained that: we have a regulatory  remit to tackle investment fraud, which 
has prompted our particular interest  in this area, although the lessons of this report can be 
applied to banks  handling of other types  of fraud  and criminal conduct  affecting their 
customers.  So whilst the paper was primarily about  investment fraud,  Im satisfied it is also 
of relevance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable  in cases  like this.  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those  at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years  and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances and 2010 
publication Safeguarding vulnerable customers.  Banking best practice: advice for 
bank staff); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated fraud 
and scams  in recent years - which banks  are generally more  familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably  in their dealings with   
Mr C, when he transferred over £75,000 to a fraudster, or whether they should have done 
more than they did. 
Of particular relevance in this complaint is the Banking Protocol and the BBA publication 
Safeguarding vulnerable customers.  Banking best practice: advice for bank staff  (which for 
simplicity I will refer to as the BBA best practice  note), so I have set out more information 
about them  below.  
The Banking  Protocol and BBA best practice note
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector  
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office), and Trading 
Standards aimed  at identifying customers who are in the process  of being defrauded and 
Ref: DRN64139427implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss 
of funds. 
In broad terms, according to UK Finances  toolkit, financial businesses commit to:
Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the 
Banking Protocol procedure when such transactions are identified.
Discreetly  question  the customer about  the withdrawal or transaction and their 
reasons for making it, keeping in mind that the customer may have been told they are 
helping to catch a corrupt bank employee  and may have been  given a cover story  to 
tell if asked about the transaction.
Consider the responses provided by a customer against what  they expect normal  
activity on that customers account  to be. If they are concerned  or suspicious that the 
customer may be the victim of fraud,  they should notify a senior member of staff,  who 
should take the customer to a quiet area and ask further questions to establish  more 
details.
If the senior member  of staff believes the customer  is a victim of fraud, either as a 
result of the answers provided or through their general behaviour,  they should call 
the Police immediately.  The Police  will then come  to the branch and speak to the 
customer. 
It also sets out that bank  staff are encouraged to contact the Police even if they arent sure 
the customer is a victim  of fraud. For example, UK Finances Bank Colleague  FAQs says:
I think a customer may be a victim but Im not sure. Should I still follow the Banking 
Protocol?
Yes. If you have questioned the customer and are still not sure, the police  urge you to still 
call them. It is not possible to answer  every what if so if you are suspicious or concerned  
but are not completely sure then still report this following the Banking Protocol. You might 
prevent a customer becoming the victim  of a crime.
The Banking Protocol  was first launched  in October  2016 and has been  fully in force 
nationwide since March  2018, but it wasnt in force in the branch where Mr C made  his initial  
branch transaction of £20,000  until 18 September 2017  around ten months  after he made 
this payment in branch. So the branch  did not have the pre-agreed arrangements with the 
Police that the Banking Protocol provides.
Nevertheless, I consider  the general  principles  of the Banking Protocol  for example to look 
out for unusual and out of character transactions, to ask questions  and to escalate internally 
when in doubt, were  already known to TSB in November  2016 and steps they were  open to 
take.      
In saying that and reaching my conclusion I am mindful that by November 2016 the BBAs 
best practice note had also highlighted the role banks  staff might play in protecting  older  and 
vulnerable customers.   
Ref: DRN64139428And whilst the Banking Protocol brought in a direct  line of contact between the branch and 
the local Police Force,  it was still open for branch staff to contact the Police  (or Trading 
Standards), as the BBA best practice  note explained.
The BBA best practice note:
Noted that everybody  but particular older  adults can be targeted  by conmen and 
rogue traders and that as bank staff you can play an invaluable role in protecting 
older and vulnerable  adults from these criminals.
Set out the National Banking  Protocol  to be followed when older or vulnerable 
customer wishes to make a cash withdrawal which is outside of their normal routine.
Provides case studies  to show how, the timely submission of suspicious activity 
reports to the Serious Organised  Crime  Agency  can help protect vulnerable people 
from financial exploitation and assist law enforcement agencies to combat  the 
activities of rogue traders.
Provided information about typical frauds and scams to look out for including the 
advanced fee scam, lottery schemes, share  sale (or boiler room) boiler room fraud 
and rogue tradesman   
In relation to cash withdrawals, it said:
When an older or vulnerable customer wishes to make a withdrawal, which is outside their 
normal routine (e.g. unusually large) and/or especially when they are accompanied by 
someone who is unknown  to the bank,  staff should:
tactfully enquire why the cash is needed;
point out the dangers of carrying large amounts  of cash
discourage them  from withdrawing cash of bankers  draft  point out other ways to 
make payment, and
where possible, take the customer to a private  area
If you suspect the customer may be a potential victim, you should  seek  their consent before 
contacting the Police or Trading standards for advice. 
Did TSB act fairly and reasonably in Mr Cs case?
As Ive explained, as a matter of good practice staff should have been  on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed Mr Cs statements, in the three  months leading up to the fraud, Mr C mostly 
used the account for lower value card payments, regular  direct debits and standing orders  
and for the period Ive looked at these were  always for under £100, I note for cash  
withdrawals he only ever used his local branch. 
Ive thought carefully about the first six payments Mr C made to the fraudster, which  were  
two cheques and four payments via Money  Gram. Having compared  this activity against  how 
Mr C typically  operated  his account,  I consider an unusual pattern of payments was starting 
to emerge, though at this point, I dont consider the activity  to be so unusual that TSB ought 
to have contacted Mr C to discuss his account activity.
Ref: DRN64139429However, following  these  payments,  Mr C made a CHAPS payment in branch for £20,000. 
This payment was very high compared to Mr Cs usual pattern of spending; it cleared almost 
40% of his balance  and theres also no evidence of Mr C having made CHAPS payments 
previously. Im persuaded that even in isolation this payment  was unusual and out of 
character for Mr C, but coupled with the pattern that had started  to emerge as a result  of the 
six previous payments even more so. 
Based on the unusualness of the transaction alone,  I think  TSB should have made enquiries 
about the purpose of the CHAPS payment, before  allowing it to be made.  But Ive also 
explored the point  Mr Cs parents have raised about  Mr C being a vulnerable  adult. 
Having spoken  to Mr C Im persuaded by what Mr Cs parents  have  told me. Theyve said Mr 
C has some  difficulty  in communicating and processing information;  particularly  in answering 
questions, and this was certainly my experience when I spoke to Mr C. Mr Cs parents have 
also said that his vulnerability was recognised by the police; who considered him to be a 
vulnerable adult  Ive no reason to doubt  what Mr Cs parents have told me, and as Ive 
said, my own experience of communicating  with Mr C suggest that he is a vulnerable adult. 
I accept TSB say they werent aware  of Mr Cs vulnerability  and by this I assume  they 
mean his vulnerability  wasnt documented on his banking profile  but based on my 
experience of talking  to Mr C, and what Mr Cs parents have told me, I consider branch staff 
ought reasonably  to have picked up on his vulnerability at the time he requested the 
payment. 
Mr Cs vulnerability is a relevant factor here  vulnerable customers are disproportionately  
targeted by scammers. This has been recognised by the industry  for a long time, and more 
recently in the Banking Protocol and the BBAs report  improving  outcomes for customers  in 
vulnerable circumstances.
Im satisfied TSB branch staff ought  reasonably to have kept this in their mind  at the point Mr 
C attempted to make  the CHAPS payment,  though  its important to note that branch staff 
should be on the lookout for any unusual or out of character  transaction   whether the 
customer is vulnerable  or not.
Taking all of this into account,  Ive considered  whether  TSB did enough before processing 
the payment.
TSB have  told us that when Mr C requested  the CHAPS transfer of £20,000, they completed  
a CHAPS transfer form and asked  him what the payment was for. They say their system 
notes support this given  they state  lending money to a friend  as a reason for the payment. 
This supports what Mr C says he believed  he was doing at the time he requested  the 
payment.
TSB have  explained the colleague  who completed the transaction  was absent from work 
when they looked into Mr Cs complaint, so they havent  been  able to add any more  detail in 
terms of their recollections of the request or provide detail on any further conversation that 
might have taken place. But in any event, they say their paperwork for this payment was in 
order  although  they dont have  access to, and havent provided, the actual CHAPS transfer 
form completed at the time. 
Ref: DRN641394210Even without  the recollections of their colleague, TSB say the CHAPS  transfer  form that 
would have been used at the time does make reference to ensuring that a suspicious 
activity/fraud awareness check was made   so they say its reasonable to conclude,  on the 
balance of probabilities, that questioning  is likely to have taken place  with Mr C before  the 
payment was made. 
However, Im not persuaded this is likely  to have been the case. I say this because  there is 
nothing on the form which sets out what a cashier should tell or ask a customer when 
completing this check, what this check  typically  consists of, or whether this check even 
relates to the questioning of a customer.  I also dont think  the form lends itself to having, or 
documenting, a decent conversation with somebody about the nature of the payment and 
the risks. 
So bearing this in mind, alongside the limited  recollections from the branch colleagues, there  
is no persuasive evidence  additional questions were  asked.  
While I accept branch staff ultimately have to make  decisions  based on information they are 
given by customers  it is up to branch staff to find out enough information about the 
purpose of the payment before they make such decisions. In doing so, given the 
unusualness of the transaction  and in addition Mr Cs apparent vulnerability, Im persuaded 
TSB shouldve asked further questions in order to satisfy itself Mr C wasnt likely to be at risk 
of financial harm, rather than just accept at face value that the purpose of such  a large 
payment was so that he could lend money  to a friend.
Ive thought carefully about what was likely to have happened had the cashier asked 
additional questions, and of course  I cant know for sure. So, I need to decide  what  I think is 
more likely than not to have happened. 
In these particular  circumstances, Ive thought about  the sorts of additional  questions  TSB 
couldve asked. TSB couldve,  for example, asked Mr C what  his friend needed the money 
for, when  he was expecting to be repaid,  and importantly who he was making  the payment 
to. Based on how Mr C answered  questions  when I spoke to him, as well as what his parents 
have told me about his communication  difficulties when answering  questions,  I think hed 
have struggled to answer these questions sufficiently. Of course, I can never  know  for sure,  
but based on what Ive seen and heard, I dont think he would have been able to provide  
plausible answers  to these questions and Im mindful Mr C didnt even know  who the 
payment was going to. Based on Mr Cs communication challenges, Im also not persuaded 
he wouldve been  able to make something  up on the spot, or at least nothing  that would 
convince branch  staff he wasnt  at risk of financial harm.
Im also mindful that when  Mr C made some later payments to the scammer in branch, TSB 
noted that he was guarded when asked questions  about the payment. I think this goes  
some way to support  what I consider is likely  to have happened if further questions  had been  
asked when Mr C made  this payment.
I think the difficulty Mr C would  have  had in answering any questions  feasibly,  ought  to have 
done nothing to reassure TSB that Mr C wasnt at risk of financial harm. Ive also considered  
that Mr Cs  apparent vulnerability ought  to have  prompted branch staff to consider the 
possibility Mr C might be the victim of a romance scam  where in my experience 
vulnerable customers  are disproportionately targeted by fraudsters  and often believe they 
are lending a friend money   and so I consider TSB ought  fairly and reasonably  to have 
asked Mr C some questions  about  his relationship with the payee and how they met. 
Ref: DRN641394211Overall, for the reasons  Ive explained,  Im not persuaded Mr C wouldve been able to 
answer any follow up questions plausibly and sufficiently;  there is no evidence hed prepared 
anything to say in the face of further questions, and so I dont think  hed have been able to 
reassure TSB he wasnt the victim  of fraud. I think that in this situation TSB ought fairly  and 
reasonably to have  talked  to Mr C about what scams, including romance scams looked and 
felt like, and asked him whether any of those hallmarks felt familiar.  And I think  they should 
have explained  to him that there was a strong possibility that he was the unwitting  victim  of a 
scam. 
Had they done this, I dont  think Mr C wouldve proceeded to make  the transfer and at this 
point I think the scam would more likely  than not have come  to light.  Im ultimately 
persuaded Mr C wouldve  understood  what was likely to be happening to him once a third 
party expressed their concern, in the same  way that he did once the police contacted him.
Ive considered TSBs point, that as Mr C was being  blackmailed he may not have been 
forthcoming about what was actually happening  to him. But Mr C has told me he didnt know  
he was being  blackmailed until the police told him months later. Im persuaded by what Mr C 
has said and whilst  its clear he understood something wasnt  quite right with what he was 
doing, Im persuaded he didnt fully comprehend  the level of threat associated with blackmail  
 which  further  supports  Mr Cs vulnerability.  
Ive also considered what TSB have said about the only reason the scam was revealed  was 
because he was proactively contacted by the police, but Ive seen no evidence that a third 
party sufficiently questioned Mr C about  the payments he was making at any point before the 
police got involved. It was only following intervention by a third party,  in this case  the police, 
that all was revealed, and Mr C understood hed been the victim of a crime. In my view TSB 
had multiple opportunities to prevent the loss Mr C suffered long before the police  got 
involved. 
Overall, Im persuaded TSB ought  fairly and reasonably to have  done  more in terms of 
questioning Mr C about the nature and purpose of the payment. Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence  to suggest  they asked enough  questions at the time Mr C requested 
the CHAPS payment of £20,000.  I do accept,  of course, that there is a balance  to strike, and 
Im not suggesting Mr C shouldve been  subjected to an interrogation by branch staff.  But as 
Ive explained,  Im persuaded additional questioning  wouldve made a significant difference, 
and Im not persuaded TSB has treated a vulnerable customer  in the way that Id expect. 
Had TSB done what I think it ought fairly  and reasonably to have done, I think its more likely 
than not the scam wouldve unravelled, Mr C wouldnt have made  the £20,000 CHAPS 
payment and he wouldnt have gone  on to make any of the subsequent  payments from his 
TSB account  either. 
Impact on Mr C
Finally, Ive considered  whether TSB should fairly pay Mr C more  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of TSBs  actions. TSB have already 
paid Mr C £50 in recognition of the delay in progressing his complaint. 
In considering whats fair compensation,  Ive specifically thought about the impact of TSBs 
actions, rather than the impact of the crime itself. TSBs failure to act has had an impact  on 
Mr C, to the extent that he is now undergoing counselling and receiving help from victim 
support.                                                                                   
Ref: DRN641394212As Ive explained, TSB had an opportunity to prevent the continuation of the scam two 
weeks after it started. This has meant  that Mr C, and his parents, have needed to continue 
conversing with TSB for longer than was necessary. For these reasons, I think  TSB should 
pay Mr C a further £300 in compensation, (in addition to the £50 it has already paid).
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  Mr Cs complaint about TSB Bank plc in part.  
For the reasons  I have  set out above, Ive found  that TSB doesnt have to refund the first 
£2,229.70 Mr C paid to the fraudster  (the first six payments made). But I do think  TSB should  
refund the rest of the payments Mr C made to the fraudster. 
So, I intend on requiring  TSB to:
Refund the remaining £73,805.77 (from £20,000 CHAPS payment  onwards)  Mr C 
lost through the scam
Refund Mr C any charges associated with the payments he made  in branch
TSB should pay 8% interest (from the date of transaction  to the date of 
reimbursement)
Pay Mr C £300 for the trouble and upset  caused  (in addition to the £50 already paid)
I now invite both parties  to send me any further  comments or evidence by 3 June 2020.
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6413942