K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  the level of service  they received from Target Servicing Limited  
when they wanted to borrow more  money to make adjustments to their home.
background
Ill not set out the entire history of whats happened. In her letter  dated  28 February 2019 the 
investigator set out the background in depth.  Both sides have a copy  of the letter  and neither 
has disputed the underlying facts  so there is no need for me to repeat the details here.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs J had bought their home under the Help to Buy scheme. They wanted to 
covert the loft to a living space because  Mr Js mother was in poor health. Under the terms 
of the scheme  that would be allowed without Homes  England (the Help to Buy lender) 
benefiting from any increase in the value of the property. Mr and Mrs J put an application in 
with Target which administers the Help to Buy loan on behalf of Homes England.
Target has admitted  it made numerous  mistakes  and provided a poor level of service to 
Mr and Mrs J. Across the different complaints that were made it offered £225 compensation. 
When the complaint  was referred to us Target offered a further £125, bringing  the total to 
£350.
Our investigator thought Target should pay an additional £100 in recognition of the poor 
service. Target didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Target has admitted  that the level of service it provided to Mr and Mrs J wasnt  acceptable. 
Neither side has disputed  the facts  of the case so I dont need to make any findings on all 
that. All I need  to decide is what compensation is reasonable.
Our investigator explained in some detail why she felt a further £100 was fair. All Target said 
in response is: 
Thank you for your comments dated  28 February  2019. I apologise for the late reply as I 
have been out of the office  and only returned  today. I have since reviewed your comments 
and unfortunately,  I am unable to agree with your recommendations  to offer a further 
£100.00 and feel that all things considered £350.00  compensation  is justified. 
We are more than happy for this now to be passed to an Ombudsman to be reviewed.
Thats not a very helpful response  as it doesnt give me any new arguments to consider that 
the investigator didnt  have  available when she made her assessment. Due to that, Ive 
simply had to review the case again based  on the same information and arguments that 
were put to the investigator before she made her assessment, and having done  so I agree 
with the outcome our investigator  reached.
Its clear that the service  that was provided  to Mr and Mrs J fell woefully short of what  Id 
expect to see. It seems  that if Mr and Mrs J hadnt  got involved constantly in the process  
Ref: DRN65116012then matters would not have progressed  or been  resolved. So its not as simple  as saying, 
for example, there was only a short  delay,  because there was only a short delay  because  of 
Mr and Mrs Js intervention.  Had it been  left to Target it wouldnt have just been  a short  
delay. Had Mr and Mrs J not got involved and appealed directly to Homes England, then 
they wouldnt have  found out that their application  hadnt been declined as Target had told 
them, but instead just needed  some further information. And  to make  matters worse - that 
the information was only needed  because Target had provided incorrect information  to 
Homes England in the first place.
Even after Mr and Mrs J raised the first complaint Target went  on to make further mistakes 
and provide a sustained  poor level of service  such that further complaints needed to be 
made, which were all upheld by Target. In addition, in its submissions to us Target admitted 
its complaint handling  had been poor as not all the complaint points raised  were  reviewed 
and answered. So, even when dealing with a complaint about a poor level of service, Target 
provided a poor level of service.
Im satisfied the service  provided by Target fell well below  that Id expect on numerous 
occasions and I award  Mr and Mrs J a further £100  in compensation, on top of the £350 
already offered by Target.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  Target Servicing Limited to pay a total of £450 
compensation to Mr and Mrs J (less any amounts already paid), as well as refund the fee as 
already offered (if not already done).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6511601