K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Ms F complain  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) unfairly  refused to pay 
their home insurance claim.
background
In March 2019 smoke  came from Mr M and Ms Fs television. It then stopped  working. So 
they claimed on their RSA home  insurance  policy. But RSA refused to pay.
RSA said the cause of the damage was an electrical  fault or breakdown. It said 
Mr M and Ms Fs policy covers them for loss or damage caused  by a number of different 
insurable events. These included fire and smoke. But RSA didnt agree that that was the 
cause of the damage. It also considered the claim  under the accidental damage  (AD) cover 
provided by the policy. But it said the AD cover  excludes damage  caused by electrical fault 
or breakdown. 
Mr M and Ms F want the claim paid. They are unhappy the television wasnt  inspected by 
RSA. They  say this means the cause of the fire is unknown. So they think  its unreasonable  
for RSA to refuse to pay their claim.      
Our investigator said she didnt think it was unfair  for RSA to refuse the claim. So she didnt  
ask it do anything differently. Mr M and Ms F didnt  accept that. So the complaint has come 
to me for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making RSA pay 
Mr M and Ms Fs claim or do anything differently.
I dont think in the circumstances it was unreasonable for RSA to refuse the claim without  
having inspected  the television.  Based  on what Mr M and Ms F told it, it believed  the most  
likely cause was electrical failure or breakdown. 
I cant be certain of the cause. But I need  to decide, based on the limited information 
available, what it most  likely  was. Having considered Mr M and Ms Fs description of what 
happened and the lack of alternative causes, I think RSA made  a reasonable decision 
without the need for an inspection. It was also willing to consider any inspection  report 
provided by Mr M and Ms F. But they havent provided one. Its no longer possible for them 
to do so as they disposed  of the television. 
The policy does cover damage caused by fire,  smoke. I cant  say the damage was 
caused by fire. There doesnt seem to have  been  one. There was smoke  but I dont think 
that caused the damage the television to stop working. Instead it seems most likely an 
electrical failure did that - whilst also producing  smoke.   
The policy does have  some AD cover. RSA says this excluded damage  caused by electrical 
failure or breakdown. Ive said this was the most likely cause of the damage.  So its fair and 
reasonable for RSA to rely on the exclusion to refuse to pay under the AD part of the cover.    
So I dont  think RSA has acted unreasonably or unfairly refused Mr M and Ms Fs claim. 
Ref: DRN60863582my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc pay 
Mr M and Ms Fs claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6086358