K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc discriminated against him when it assessed his income  
as nil and refused to increase  the limit on his credit card account.
background
The background to Mr Hs complaint was set out in my provisional  decision dated 
7 January 2019, an extract of which is attached  and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Lloyds didnt provide any 
further comment. Mr H responded at some length. I wont  set out Mr Hs response in full 
here. In summary, Mr H said:
He wants to see all the information Lloyds has provided.
His complaint is that Lloyds assess his income  as nil as its from disability benefits. If 
he has no income and not much  capital, the outcome is that he cant  get credit. 
This service shouldnt make decisions that are contrary to law. 
Lloyds action is irrational in that it would  have to cancel credit cards  if an individual  
had no income or became disabled and received  disability benefits.
Its not correct to compare Mr H with other customers  who are unemployed. 
A disabled person  receiving disability benefits  will have  twice  the income  of a person 
receiving unemployment benefit. 
Many  unemployed  wealthy people get credit  even  though  they have no income.
He does not have to spend his disability benefits on disability  goods  or services, so 
Lloyds discriminates  against him in assessing his income as nil when  it doesnt  
prevent others using  credit to buy disability goods and services. 
Lloyds hasnt considered his reliability  in terms of repayment  and Ive effectively 
decided that all people  in receipt of disability benefits are unreliable  payers. 
Disability and disability benefits  can be life-long and if Lloyds is allowed to refuse  
credit, a disabled individual may be prevented from having credit  for the rest of his or 
her life. 
We havent considered section 13 of the Equality Act 2010, which  covers  direct 
discrimination and protected characteristics. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Again, Im going to concentrate on the 
central issues. In some  of his comments,  Mr H has expanded the issues to include reference  
to others  and raised hypothetical problems. Im not going to address those  areas, as Im 
considering whether Lloyds acted fairly in relation to Mr H, not others. 
Businesses do sometimes send  us information explaining internal processes or approaches 
which, if released, could  potentially cause some commercial harm. We sometimes accept 
evidence from businesses  in confidence, as that enables us to carry out our function.  The 
information Lloyds  has sent to us about  its lending policy  is commercially  confidential.  So, 
Im not going  to share it with Mr H or ask Lloyds to withdraw it. Im satisfied that Mr H has 
enough information about the content  of Lloyds policy to respond  to it. 
Ref: DRN64013822I accurately represented  Mr Hs complaint, as explained to us when he first contacted  this 
service. But Ive now added in the complaint description above that his complaint is that 
Lloyds assessed  his income  as nil  thats the underlying reason why Lloyds refused to 
increase the credit limit on his credit  card.  I dont think that changes the outcome here. 
Lloyds is subject to certain legal and regulatory requirements, which can be summarised  as 
the need to act as a responsible, sustainable and secure lender.  So, it has a legitimate aim 
in trying to ensure that it lends  responsibly. 
Mr H is right to say that his benefits are not ring fenced  he can spend them as he wishes.  
But I dont think Lloyds  is wrong to look at the source of Mr Hs income in reaching  its 
decision about whether it will increase  his credit limit. 
Lloyds doesnt  take into account  DLA. And it doesnt take into account  ESA where, as here, 
the customer is unemployed. Continued receipt  of those benefits is subject to Mr Hs 
personal circumstances and, ultimately,  at the discretion of the government. Those  benefits  
are harder to replace  than other  forms of income  if they are reduced  unexpectedly, lost due 
to eligibility or removed  unilaterally. I think its reasonable for Lloyds to protect itself from that 
risk. So, Lloyds requires  an applicant to have other income. I think  thats a proportionate 
response to its legitimate  aim, which is to lend responsibly.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  its not the role of this service  to decide whether 
Lloyds has breached the Equality Act but I did consider the Act in reaching my decision. 
I think the relevant  part of the Act is the one about indirect discrimination. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds indirectly discriminated against Mr H. I 
think that disregarding benefit  income might be a proportionate means of achieving  a 
legitimate aim of making  sure the borrower can repay the money. And Lloyds treated Mr H 
the same  as other  unemployed customers in receipt  of the same benefits. 
Ive considered everything Mr H has said but I remain of the view that Lloyds didnt treat him 
unfairly in its assessment  of his income.  I appreciate that Mr H can make cogent  arguments 
about why Lloyds may wish to take another view. But as Ive said, in general terms, banks 
can decide to whom and how they lend and I dont think Lloyds treated Mr H unfairly here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64013823extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc discriminated against him when it refused to increase
the limit on his credit card account.
background
Mr H asked Lloyds to increase his credit card limit from £500. He says he asked for a new 
limit of £1,000 but the banks records say that he asked  for £2,000.
Lloyds refused Mr Hs application.  It said that his income from Employment Support 
Allowance (ESA) and Disability  Living Allowance  (DLA) is nil rated  for credit purposes.  But in 
its final response to Mr H, it said it would consider ESA and DLA as part of an assessment 
where a customer is employed, self-employed  or retired.
Mr H tells us that hes disabled and that his disability prevents him from working. He says 
he receives ESA, DLA, Housing  Benefit, certain linked benefits such  as free prescriptions 
and a social care payment.
Mr H says Lloyds hasnt  looked at his financial circumstances.  He says that it would  
increase the credit limit for a customer without a disability who has the same  level of income 
as him. Mr H thinks Lloyds has discriminated against him because of his disability.  He says 
that its wrong to refuse to take into account  income  he has because  of his disability.
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds had treated Mr H unfairly. She said:
She couldnt decide whether Lloyds  had discriminated against Mr H.
Its generally for lenders to decide  to whom and how they lend.
Its fair that a bank looks at a customers source of income and it cant consider
Mr Hs income.
Lloyds acted fairly in not taking into account  Mr Hs benefits  for the repayment 
of debt.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He responded at some length, which I wont set out 
here. Essentially, Mr H said:
Theres no restriction on how he can use his DLA and ESA  its the same as 
having an income from a job.
His effective income  is more than that of an individual  working full time at minimum 
pay.
His credit  score  is very good.
Lloyds has discriminated against  him as its disregarded his income.
The credit  card account he has with Lloyds is designed to be used like a debit card.
The investigator was wrong to say that she cant  consider discrimination.
The investigator has misunderstood affordability.
A credit card can be used to pay for disabled services and a payment for a disability 
service, if repaid promptly, isnt a debt but an everyday expenditure.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
Ref: DRN64013824my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite  understandable that Mr H has very strong feelings about this matter.  Hes 
provided detailed  submissions to support  his complaint, which I have read and considered.  
However, I trust that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus in this decision not 
on every  point he makes but on what I consider  to be the central issues.
Mr H says that Lloyds  discriminated  against  him, as it wouldnt take into account  the 
benefits he receives because his disability  prevents  him from working.
To treat an individual differently just because of his or her disability is direct  discrimination. 
But that isnt what Lloyds  has done  here.  It hasnt refused to increase Mr Hs credit limit 
because hes disabled.  Its refused to do so because it doesnt take into account ESA and 
DLA when it looks at his income.
As Mr H receives those benefits because his disability  means  hes unable to work,  I need to 
consider whether Lloyds has discriminated against him because  of something connected to 
his disability.
Section 15 of the Equality Act 2010 says that discrimination arising  from disability occurs  if: 
(a) A treats B unfavourably because of something  arising in consequence  of Bs disability, 
and
(b) A cannot  show  that the treatment is a proportionate means of achieving a 
legitimate aim.
I think Mr Hs income from ESA and DLA is something arising  in consequence of [his] 
disability. So I need to consider whether Lloydss treatment of Mr H is a proportionate 
means of achieving a legitimate aim.
Welfare benefits are a complicated area and Im not an expert in them. But I understand that
ESA is paid to cover basic living expenses and DLA is paid to cover  the expected 
additional expenses  a disabled person faces because of disability.
Lloyds says that it doesnt consider DLA to be an acceptable source of income when 
considering lending, as its meant to meet additional  care and mobility needs a customer 
has and it wouldnt be responsible to use DLA to repay debt. It also says that it doesnt 
consider ESA as an acceptable source  of income  when the customer  is unemployed but 
does considers it if a customer is employed, self-employed or retired.
Disregarding benefit income, which is intended  to meet  basic living  expenses  and the extra  
costs of being disabled,  might be a proportionate  means of achieving  a legitimate aim of 
making sure the borrower is in a position  to repay  the money. So, I dont think  I can base 
my decision  on the assumption  that Lloyds breached the relevant law when it refused to
consider Mr Hs benefit income  when considering his request to increase his credit  limit.
Ref: DRN64013825This service was set up to provide an informal  alternative  to the courts for consumers 
who have complaints about business actions.  We decide cases with the minimum of 
formality. Its not my role to decide whether Lloyds has breached the Equality Act; only a 
court can decide  that. But in looking at whether Lloyds has treated  Mr H unfairly, I need  
to bear in mind that I havent been able to establish that this constitutes unlawful 
discrimination for a reason related to Mr Hs disability.
Overall, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr H unfairly  in its assessment of his income.  Its 
right to say that DLA is meant to meet additional  care and mobility needs.  So it doesnt 
seem appropriate  to consider it when looking at whether Mr H can afford  to repay  additional 
borrowing. I also think its reasonable for Lloyds  to take the view that ESA is intended to 
cover basic  living expenses and where,  as here, the customer  is unemployed, theres  no 
income over and above that to repay  additional borrowing.
I note that Mr H says that his credit  card account is designed to be used like a debit card 
and he uses it for everyday expenditure but it is in fact a form of borrowing, as hes not 
obliged to repay the balance each month. So I dont think  that Lloyds was wrong to treat
Mr Hs request for an increased credit  limit as a request for further borrowing.
It may well be that Mr Hs total income  is more than the income  of some individuals  in 
employment. But I dont  think that alters the outcome here. In general terms, banks can 
decide to whom and how they lend. Lloyds  is treating Mr H the same as other 
customers who are unemployed.  So I dont  think its treated him unfairly.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold  
his complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  intend to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN6401382