K820x#14Complaint
Mr H, in his capacity as representative  of the trustees of R, has complained that St. Jamess 
Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to provide suitable ongoing investment and tax 
advice to the trustees, which will result in a large tax bill if the bond  held in R is encashed.
Background
In 1996 Mrs G (the settlor) sought  investment advice from Ms N, an appointed 
representative of SJP. As a result of this meeting, Mrs G started  an International Investment 
Bond (IIB) with SJP in March 1996,  investing $340,000. In September 1996 Mrs G invested 
an additional  $50,000 in the IIB. Ms N also recommended Mrs G take out a life insurance 
policy to cover an expected inheritance tax (IHT) liability, however this didnt go ahead. In 
April 1997 the IIB was placed in a trust  R.
In 2019 Mr H raised a complaint on behalf of the trustees of R. He said Mrs G lived abroad  
and she wanted  to reduce her UK IHT. Mr H said the IIB had been  placed in trust and the 
business that had arranged this (B  a professional trustee) had relied  on advice from 
Ms N. He referred to an internal fax sent from Ms N to a tax specialist at SJP on 3 June 2002 
in support of this. Mr H said B and Mrs G had been led to believe the arrangement  would 
protect Mrs G from any taxation of the IIB should  she return to live in the UK permanently.  
However, Mr H says they now know this isnt the case. Mr H also added that there was a 
lack of advice  in general, particularly regarding the UK taxation  liability  that may arise.
SJP didnt uphold  the complaint. It said whilst SJP had provided  Mrs G with investment 
advice, it hadnt  advised her to place the IIB in trust. The trustees remained unhappy so 
Mr H referred  their complaint to our service. Mr H added he had sight of an undated  report 
which he believed showed  SJP had advised  on the tax implications.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that B was responsible for 
setting up the trust,  not SJP. He also didnt  think Ms N had provided  Mrs G with advice  about  
the tax implications of placing  the IIB in the trust. The investigator didnt think  the undated 
report had been  written by SJP as it referred to another advisory  firm being paid a fee for the 
service provided. He added that there  wasnt an ongoing advice  arrangement with SJP,  it 
simply provided administration  services.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision.  He maintained that Ms N had advised 
Mrs G to put her investments in trust  he didnt think Ms Ns comments could be relied  
upon. Mr H asked why SJP had a copy of the undated report if it hadnt been written  by a 
representative of SJP. Mr H added that SJP needed  to provide ongoing advice if it was 
taking ongoing  fees under the regulators  rules.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  given  by the investigator.
Whilst SJP recommended Mrs G take out the IIB, Im satisfied that it did not arrange for the 
IIB to later be placed  in trust. The advice to take out the IIB was given by SJP in 1996, but 
the IIB was placed in trust in April 1997  I havent  seen any evidence to show  that SJP was 
involved in this.
Ref: DRN61165402Mr H, on behalf of the trustees, argues that in 2002 Ms N, in her capacity as representative  
of SJP, provided advice  about the tax implications of the IIB being  placed into trust.  He says 
B relied  on this advice  and so SJP should  be held responsible for the tax bill they now face. 
Mr H refers to a memorandum dated 3 June 2002  from Ms N to a tax specialist at SJP in 
support of this.
Ive reviewed a copy of the memorandum.  Ms N stated:
Please find enclosed a Trust Deed that [B] are suggesting to be used by my client [Mrs G] 
who lives [abroad]
Mrs G has not been  resident in the UK for over 20 years She has no intention at this time 
of coming back to the UK. What  is your opinion on the Golden Trust" that [B] wish to use to 
wrap up her [IIB] and her other investments, which are all based off-shore?
I am assured by [B] that it will work, even if at some point in the future she came  back  to live 
in the UK, as long as it is her current  intention  not to return to the UK. I await your 
comments.
The tax specialist replied:
This is a standard  discretionary trust. Yes it will work  but what  does  your client  want it to 
do. I will await your advice.
There isnt any evidence  from the time to show what was discussed  thereafter. Ms N was 
asked for her recollections  of this by SJP in 2018  and she said she didnt provide any tax 
advice. Ms N said shed asked the tax specialist for his view and hed said it would work if 
Mrs G never  returned to the UK. Ms N said this was only a discussion, the advice to arrange 
the trust had been given by B.
The above  evidence does  suggest  that Mrs G sought Ms Ns opinion on the trust that B had 
recommended she arrange.  But I dont think that this is evidence  of Ms N providing Mrs G 
with advice on the tax implications of using the trust B recommended  to her. Ultimately the 
advice to arrange the trust was given  by B, not SJP. And it is clear from the memorandum 
that B was firmly of the view that the trust was suitable for Mrs Gs needs. Furthermore, by 
the time this discussion took place in 2002,  the IIB had already been  in the trust for a 
number of years. So, it appears a variation to the trust was made  at a later date. In any 
event, Im still not persuaded SJP provided advice to Mrs G or the trustees  about  this.
Mr H says Ms Ns recollections cannot  be relied  upon because when asked about it in 2018 
she stated that Mrs G had moved  to a different country, which  wasnt  the case.
I cant say why Ms N believed Mrs G had moved  to a different country, but given she was 
being asked about matters that had taken place  over 20 years ago I dont think its unusual 
that some  of the details she recalled arent correct. Nevertheless, I have not based  my 
findings on Ms Ns recollections in 2018.  Rather, I havent seen enough evidence  from the 
time to persuade  me that Ms N did in fact advise Mrs G and the trustees on the tax 
implications of their investments being held in trust.
Mr H also refers to an undated report  he believes this was written  by SJP. Mr H says this is 
further evidence  that SJP provided tax advice  to Mrs G, advising her to place her 
investments into a trust to shelter her from IHT and UK income tax. Ive reviewed the report  
Ref: DRN61165403but Im not persuaded it was authored by SJP. I say this because it refers to SJP in the 
abstract and it also names another  firm (F) as the recipient of a quarterly advice fee for 
arranging a new investment. In my view, the report was authored  by F. And having made 
some further  enquiries through Companies House, F was the prior trading name of B. So, 
that all aligns with what SJP has told us that the trust arrangement was recommended by B.
Although the report is undated, it is clear to me that it was written after the IIB was arranged 
in 1996  this is because  the IIB is referenced in the report. The author  of the report 
recommended that Mrs G invest in another bond  and place it in a trust. Although this report  
does not advise Mrs G to place the IIB in trust,  I think its more  likely than not that this is how 
the IIB came to be placed  in trust in April 1997.  So, Im satisfied that the advice to arrange 
the trust was given  by B, and in the absence of any further evidence, I dont think  that SJP 
gave Mrs G any advice about placing the IIB in trust or the tax implications of doing so. If the 
trustees have concerns  about the advice to place the investments in trust, this complaint 
should be directed  to B.
It is unclear why SJP has a copy of the report  its possible Mrs G passed a copy on to Ms N 
for completeness. This seems likely to me given Ms N continued  to be in touch with Mrs G 
after the IIB was established. However,  I dont  think possession of the report shows  it was a 
report written  by SJP. Im satisfied  the report was written by F (now  B) for the reasons 
already given.
Overall, I dont  think SJP are liable for any tax liability the trust may have as a result of 
placing the IIB in trust.
Mr H has also expressed a general  dissatisfaction with the lack of advice provided to the 
trust over the years. He believes SJP had a duty to provide ongoing reviews and advice to 
ensure the IIB remained suitable  for the trusts  needs. 
Ive considered this point  carefully, but Im not persuaded that SJP was obligated  to provide 
ongoing advice.  Based on the evidence Ive seen,  SJP recommended  the IIB and was paid 
for this advice through a form of trail commission, which included ongoing servicing. 
However, there was no agreement for any ongoing advice. I dont think ongoing servicing 
would include reviews  to determine whether the bond remained suitable  that would be 
ongoing advice.
Mr H has said SJP wasnt permitted to take ongoing  fees without providing advice, following 
the introduction  of Retail Distribution Review (RDR)  in 2012. But the standards  set out in the 
RDR werent retrospective  the IIB was established  long before this. And I cant see any 
evidence to show that the trustees entered into an ongoing advice agreement with SJP 
thereafter. So, I dont  think SJP was required to provide  any ongoing advice or reviews in 
return for the servicing fee.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees of R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2021.
Ref: DRN61165404Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6116540