K821x#15complaint
Mr P says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender (PDL Finance)  irresponsibly  lent to 
him.
background
This complaint is about 5 instalment loans which PDL Finance provided to Mr P between  
August 2014 and July 2017. Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 08/08/2014 13/01/2015 6 £250.00 £129.16
2 19/02/2015 26/05/2015 3 £500.00 £330.66
3 16/07/2015 19/05/2017 6 £750.00 £371.00
4 19/06/2017 28/06/2017 6 £600.00 £212.00
5 20/07/2017 06/11/2018 4 £600.00 £342.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint  and thought  the loans from loan 3 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. PDL Finance disagreed and it asked for the matter  to be looked  
at again. 
Neither party made any comments about  loans 1 and 2 being rejected, so in this decision,  I 
only need to look at loans 3, 4 and 5. However,  I will look generally at all the loans and the 
full loan history to assess the case fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL Finance  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL Finance should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN61859922the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL Finance was required to 
establish whether  Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 3 would most likely  have shown  
that the highest monthly repayment  was a significant  proportion of Mr Ps declared  income  of 
£1,400. So there  was a significant risk he wouldnt  have been able to meet  his existing 
commitments without  having to borrow again  and he was unlikely to be able to sustain loan 3 
onwards. So I dont think PDL Finance should  have given loan 3 onwards to Mr P.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of PDL Finances lending history  with Mr P, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which PDL Finance  should  reasonably  have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so PDL Finance should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point PDL Finance ought to have realised  Mr P was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr P had been  indebted to PDL Finance for almost 2 years.  So 
PDL Finance ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr P was having  to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ps indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ps first loan was for £250  and loan 4 was for £600. At this point PDL Finance 
ought to have known that Mr P was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary  shortfall 
in their income but to meet an ongoing  need.  
Ref: DRN61859923From  loan 4 onwards  Mr P was provided  with a new loan within  weeks  of settling the 
previous one. 
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed PDL Finance. Loan 5 
was taken out 35 months after Mr Ps first. And it was for a larger  amount.  Mr P had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to PDL Finance  over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr P lost out because PDL Finance continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time;
the length of time over which Mr P borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 3, 4 and 5 and PDL Finance should put 
things right.
putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans 3, 4 and 5 (inclusive);
pay 8% simple interest a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about loan 3 from Mr Ps credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 and 5 should be removed from Mr 
Ps credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
PDL Finance  Limited must  give Mr P a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ps complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
should put things right for Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6185992