K821x#15complaint
Mr Y is unhappy with the way Eldon Insurance Services Ltd has dealt with him about his 
motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr Y complains about the way Eldons advisors communicated with him and that he had to 
speak to advisors based abroad.  He says a call was disconnected and the advisors were 
rude, patronising and mocked him.  
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. In summary he said 
There were  various calls between Eldon and Mr Y between the renewal of the policy 
in 2017 and February 2018. The parties relationship clearly  broke  down and most of 
the calls were challenging. Mr Y was quite  frustrated but the advisors  couldve 
maintained a professional tone but didnt at times.
In one call Mr Y asked to speak with a manager  but the advisor questioned this. The 
advisors tone added to Mr Ys frustration. In a second call a senior  claims handler 
repeatedly didnt correct Mr Ys belief that he was speaking  to a manager.  And in a 
third call the advisor lacked an overall professional  tone and the conversation was 
more like an argument which  didnt  help Mr Y understand Eldons position.
Its fair and reasonable for Eldon  to pay Mr Y £50 compensation for these service 
issues and any distress  and inconvenience  he was caused.
Mr Y isnt happy he was put through to advisors  based in another country.  But we 
cant tell Eldon how to operate.
Mr Y remains unhappy. And Eldon hasnt agreed to pay Mr Y any compensation. Both 
parties have asked for an ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint deals  only with Mr Ys complaint about Eldons service  failings when  dealing  
with him on the phone.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Its clear that Mr Y was a demanding and at times exceedingly challenging customer  to deal 
with. He was clearly frustrated and often angry  when  speaking with Eldons  advisors  and at 
times was rather overbearing when speaking  to them. One of his calls was terminated after 
he was understandably warned about  his behaviour.
Even so I agree  with the investigator that Eldons  response to him was on some occasions  
too confrontational and argumentative. And it mayve been that on these occasions Eldon  
shouldve considered terminating  the calls rather than continuing  them in such an adversarial 
way. Its advisors also at times repeatedly spoke over Mr Y which  further enflamed his 
Ref: DRN60230612frustration and aggression. It could  also have  dealt with his requests to speak with a 
manager better.
Overall I think  Eldon  couldve dealt with Mr Y better at times and its failings added to the 
obvious upset  Mr Y was experiencing.  
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make and Mr Ys own 
demeanour and behaviour during these calls,  I agree with the investigator that its fair and 
reasonable for Eldon to pay Mr Y £50 compensation for any additional distress  and 
inconvenience he was caused by its service  failings.
Although I recognise  both parties strength of feeling and frustration I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Eldon Insurance  Services Ltd should pay Mr Y 
£50 compensation.
Eldon must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr Y accepts  
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest* on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Eldon to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr Y 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6023061