K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined his mobile phone 
insurance claim. My references to Assurant  include  its agents.
background
Mr K made a claim for a stolen phone. He told Assurant that he:
posted the phone on Website to sell it. Someone called me and came  over to my partner's 
houseI met him in front of her house  and I asked him to come over to my car to show  
the phone  safely. He seemed to check the phone and suddenly  took off the car with the 
phone and ran away,  throwing  money. The money he threw made me so fluster and he's 
already gone  I found that the money was fake.
Assurant declined the claim. The policy doesnt  cover loss of your mobile phone or any loss 
of money in connection with an attempted sale of your mobile  phone.
Mr K complained to us. He made several points, his main  ones  being:
he didnt use the word sell in the sense  that he was giving it to someone in 
exchange for money. His post on social media didnt mention the words buy or sell
even if he did intend to sell the phone Assurant  told him to sell it. The phone  was a 
replacement of a phone for a previous claim.  Hed already bought a phone when 
Assurant settled  that claim so he ended up with two phones. Assurant didnt  warn  
him he wouldnt be covered for issues arising from the sale
even if he had intended to sell the phone  the thief wasn't the target  buyer. The thief 
told Mr K he wanted  to see the phone for a friend.
Our investigator thought Assurant had fairly declined the claim.
Mr K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policy is clear it doesnt  cover loss of a phone or any loss of money in connection with 
an attempted sale of the phone.
Ive seen Mr K detailed points. Ive focused on the main  ones  below but Ive taken all hes 
said into account in making my decision.  Im satisfied that Assurant has enough evidence to 
say he was attempting to sell the phone when the theft occurred.  
Assurant can reasonably take Mr Ks first report of the claim (before the claim was declined) 
to be the most accurate.  He told it he was trying to sell the phone. His description of what  
happened means the theft occurred in connection  with the attempted  sale of the phone.
Im not persuaded Mr K meant some other meaning  of sell, as he has suggested. Mr Ks 
social media post asked  if anyone wanted  his phone. It doesnt matter that the post didnt 
Ref: DRN64275442mention sell or buy or that a price hadnt been agreed for the phone. Mr K thought  he had 
a loss which is why he made the claim.  I think its more likely than not that he thought  he lost 
out on money from the sale which is supported  by him telling Assurant the money was fake. 
Mr K said Assurant told him to sell the phone but didnt warn  him he wouldnt be covered. 
Our investigator listened to the call between Mr K and Assurant on 17 December 2018. It 
told Mr K it couldnt reimburse  him for the phone hed bought  while he waited for the claim to 
be settled. It didnt tell or suggest to him that he sell the phone.  Im satisfied it was Mr Ks 
decision to sell the phone. The policy is clear about  the cover.  
Even if Mr K didnt think the thief was the potential buyer for the phone,  he thought  the thief 
was looking at the phone for someone  else who might want  to buy the phone.  The theft did 
happen in connection with an attempted sale.
Assurant fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6427544