K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mr K says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand if he cant remember this given how long ago the sale 
took place.
Halifax has provided a copy of Mr Ks original  application form. And I can see that in section 
nine, there  are two options  to take PPI, or to decline it. Both options are equally prominent,  
and theres a tick selecting the PPI. Mr K has then signed the application.
Mr Ks representatives say that as the policy isnt explicitly labelled  as optional, and Mr K 
didnt have to sign separately to take PPI that they cannot agree he made  it clear  in his 
application he wanted the policy. But I disagree.  I think the choices on the application are 
clear  and I would also have expected Mr K to check over his application before he signed  
it.    
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr K so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. Even though  Mr K did have  generous  sick pay and says he could 
have relied on his wife for help, the policy couldve  paid out on top of and for longer than his 
sick pay. And although his wife would have wanted to help, her ability  to would have been  
dependent on her circumstances,  which could  have changed.. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr K about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it could have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said - including what hes said about not realising he 
had the policy until he contacted Halifax about  his mortgage when he was off work  after an 
accident.
I understand that Mr K made a successful claim at this time. He says he wouldve made  
more if hed been aware of the policy before this. I dont know why Mr K didnt remember  he 
had PPI but I still think he chose to take it out so this point doesnt  change my decision. He 
Ref: DRN62903632may be able to contact  Halifax  about  the possibility of making  a retrospective claim if he 
chooses to do so. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr K paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr K back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr K now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6290363