K820x#14complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the price increases shes endured on her building and contents 
insurance policy held with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds).
background
Mrs Fs had a buildings and contents  insurance  policy with Lloyds for a number of years. 
In early 2015 Mrs F moved to a new house. She contacted  Lloyds to amend her policy  
details and she was given an amended price for the remainder of the policy year. But when 
she received her renewal  some weeks later the price had risen substantially.
Unfortunately, Mrs F was going through a tough personal time at the time and she didnt 
query this with Lloyds,  although she did express surprise and disappointment at the rising 
cost. It was only when her premium  was reduced in 2017  did she query the erratic nature of 
her previous  two years premiums. 
When Lloyds  looked at her premium history  it advised  that nothing had gone wrong.  It said 
that Mrs Fs new house was in a much higher flood risk area than before, so the premium  
was markedly higher. But Lloyds did confirm that Mrs F was eligible for the initiative called  
Flood Re, which had been introduced in 2016, and it refunded £1,378.58 of the 2016 
premium to her. 
But Mrs F remained unhappy and she says that having to pay over £5,000  in two years  and 
to only receive a partial refund was disappointing. Shes spoke to her neighbours and she 
says they were  all paying less than £500 per annum. Shes now moved to an alternative 
insurer who has provided her with a policy for a lower price.
So, Mrs F says that she doesnt think he has been  treated fairly by Lloyds.
Our investigator looked into this case and he thought Lloyds  hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. But Mrs F disagrees, so the matter has been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done,  I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mrs F, so Id like to explain  why.
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its 
insurance should cost.  I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. 
Second, I would also like to add that each insurer,  in determining its policys  costs, is entitled 
to form their own view of risk regarding things such as flooding. And from this, it decides the 
costs associated  with the risk. Insurers often use independent  organisations to help 
determine flood risk ratings  associated with properties or areas. Insurers will typically,  over 
the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date and refined models. I 
Ref: DRN66044342appreciate Mrs F might not agree with Lloyds risk assessment but ultimately it is Lloyds 
decision as to what risk it places on a property and in turn the cost it sets for the insurance. 
Mrs F is mainly unhappy that her policy premiums were so high in the later years. And I can 
see why Mrs F is unhappy. Mrs Fs says her circumstances are no different to her 
neighbours and she feels that she was paying an astronomical amount compared to her 
neighbours. Im going to break down the years  in question in order to explain what happened  
to the insurance  premium.
2014 - 2015
Mrs F moved house in 2015.  She moved  in February and her policy was due to renew in 
April that same year. Lloyds have said that the risk changed when Mrs F moved and that this 
had a big effect on the premium. At her old property Mrs F was paying approximately  £69 
per month. And after a number of calls to Lloyds when she moved,  Mrs F ended  up paying  
approximately £128 per month until her renewal.
Lloyds say the premium  became more expensive  because the new house was a higher risk 
due to the type and age of the property  as well as it being a flood risk. And Lloyds have  
provided us with supporting evidence to show  that the property was at the higher end of its 
flood risk scale. Insurers are allowed to make their own assessment on risk. So, Im satisfied 
that the premium  increase was fair and was calculated correctly.  
2015 - 2016
When the policy  renewed  in April 2015 the monthly premium increased to approximately  
£195 per month. I queried this with Lloyds as it looked like an error  had occurred. But Lloyds 
advised that the underwriters of the policy changed at renewal in 2015. Lloyds said that 
previously the buildings and contents insurance had been  separated  and were  underwritten 
by different  underwriters. But when Lloyds became the sole underwriter  in April 2015 it took 
over the risk as one, and the policy  was fully re-rated at renewal based  on its latest view of 
risk. 
We already know  that Lloyds viewed Mrs Fs new property as a high flood risk. It rated  the 
property at high flood bands for both surface  water  and for river risk, which resulted in an 
increased premium. Again, Lloyds have provided supporting  evidence  to show  us that no 
errors had been  made. So, Im satisfied no errors occurred in these years.
2017
However, in 2017  the premium decreased again.  And this prompted Mrs F to question what  
was going  on. Lloyds  have explained that in April 2016 the Government launched  Flood  Re, 
an initiative working  with insurers to help people who live in flood risk areas obtain more  
affordable home insurance. And Mrs Fs property was eligible for the scheme.  In 2017 
Lloyds had updated its risk model and identified  that Mrs Fs property was considered more 
at risk than was previously thought, and that her premium was due to rise significantly again. 
Ref: DRN66044343But the inclusion of the property on the Flood  Re scheme meant  they were  able to offer Mrs 
F cover at a lower cost than previous years. 
Lloyds have shown us what it wouldve cost Mrs F if she hadnt been  included on the Flood  
Re scheme. And Im satisfied that the premium offered by Lloyds in 2017  is correct  and that 
Lloyds has supported this. I also think  that by refunding  Mrs F the Flood Re differential in 
2016 as a gesture  of goodwill, Lloyds have probably done more  than we wouldve expected 
them to do. So, I think Mrs F has been treated fairly.
alternative policies
Mrs F was able to secure an alternative policy with another insurer.  She says that her 
neighbours are also paying a lot less. But its difficult to compare two policies from different 
insurers. Similarly,  its difficult to compare different policies on separate  properties.  The 
policies wont be identical  and there  would  be differences in cover  (including terms and 
conditions), different excesses, rebuild costs  and size. New quotes  usually include online or 
new business discounts or can be a new product altogether where the discount is fairly 
substantial. And in this case  we know this specific  postcode is eligible for Flood Re so this 
will also be a factor. 
So, its not possible to compare like with like. Ultimately each business will choose what  level 
of risk it is happy with and what price it wants to charge to fairly reflect this. Lloyds have also 
confirmed that Mrs Fs postcode is an unacceptable  risk to them at new business,  so its 
unlikely that any of Mrs Fs neighbours are insured at a lower  cost with Lloyds with a new 
business policy.
So, from what  Ive seen, there are legitimate  risk related reasons for the premium increasing  
and then decreasing  2015  to 2017.  And overall  Im satisfied  that Lloyds have treated Mrs F 
fairly.
As I said earlier, I do understand  why Mrs F was concerned  that her premium  increased in 
the later years. Had Lloyds explained this clearly  to Mrs F from the outset or when it 
reassessed the risk and increased her policy, Mrs F may have been  more  understanding of 
the situation. So, I can see why Mrs F brought her complaint to our service. But I hope my 
decision now explains everything  to Mrs F and brings peace of mind as to why I consider 
Lloyds has acted fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Ref: DRN66044344Derek Dunne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6604434