K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC passed his new business debit card details  to a 
merchant which meant  it could continue to take payments from him.
background
Mr G said he contacted  Barclays to request a new debit card. He says he was unhappy that 
too many  merchants had those details. The card was issued. But he received an email  from 
one merchant which he took to have meant that Barclays  had given it his new card details. 
Further payments  were attempted. Barclays did not uphold  his complaint saying that he had 
given a continuous payment authority to that merchant. And that this would continue under 
the relevant payment scheme  provided the bank account being debited is still valid.
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-The payments  presented to Barclays by this merchant were recurring ones. That 
meant that they had been generated  under a continuous  payment authority with the 
merchant. This indicated that Mr G had given authority to that merchant for it to take 
ongoing payments.
-There is no evidence Mr G had asked Barclays to cancel that authority.
-Barclays had said it had not provided the new card details to the merchant. But that 
the merchant  would have been  able to get those details under  the relevant card 
payment scheme.  The email from the merchant said that Barclays  had told it that the 
card number  had changed. It did not say that Barclays had provided the number.  But 
that the merchant  would be updating  the details  automatically.
-If Mr G still wanted to pursue a complaint  about data protection  concerns he could 
contact the Information Commissioners Office.
Mr G did not agree. He was annoyed  to be expected to tell Barclays to cancel  a continuous 
payment authority he said he did not know existed. He did not think that the investigator had 
explained his reasoning  or given a fair view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G had said to the investigator  that he was going to be providing further evidence for my 
review. And I agreed to give him the further time he asked for to do so. That time has passed 
and I think he has had a reasonable  opportunity to respond further. So I will now be reaching 
my decision  on the case. 
This is a complaint  about Barclays passing  on Mr Gs new card details to the merchant. 
Barclays has not been asked to look into a complaint about unauthorised payments being 
made to his account. Or about him not having set up the continuous  payment authority in the 
first place.
The information Ive seen from Barclays shows that a payment of £16.31  was processed to 
his account through his debit card as a recurring payment on 5 October 2018. Two further 
payments for £81.58 were  attempted using his new card details on 16 and 17 October 2018 
but were declined. This indicates that the merchant had obtained the new card details.
Ref: DRN61356082I fully understand  Mr Gs frustration at what happened and that he thought he would stop 
payments by changing his card. Im afraid that is not how this payment arrangement works. 
The authority is connected  to the underlying account  and will continue even if the card 
details change. 
I know he couldnt ask Barclays to cancel this if he didnt realise it existed. But the 
agreement was between  him and the merchant. Barclays couldnt  reasonably  cancel it 
unless he asked it to. In fact its process was to put in place arrangements to ensure that any 
such agreement continued  even if the card number changed. I know  that this was the exact 
opposite of what Mr G wanted to happen.  But I hope he can see my reasoning why there are 
not reasonable grounds for me to find Barclays made a mistake.
Barclays process does  not involve it telling  the merchant the new card number. And it did 
not need to do that anyway for payments  to continue to be possible.  The merchant has the 
ability to find out what the new card number is from the relevant payment scheme. Thats  not 
something Barclays has any control  over.
I know Mr G will remain unhappy when I say that I dont find Barclays  has made  a mistake in 
this complaint. As I say if he thinks payments have been debited  to his account  that 
shouldnt have he can raise that with Barclays. And depending on what he disputes about 
them he may need to do that within strict time limits  often 120 days from the date of the 
payment. But I wont be asking it to do anything further with this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6135608