K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that she was unable to use her credit card with Capital  One (Europe) plc.
background 
Capital One agreed  a payment plan with Mrs M to help her clear arrears on her credit card 
account. A year later, Capital One told Mrs M her account was up to date and she could start 
using her credit card again. 
Mrs M asked  Capital  One to send  her a new card because shed destroyed  her previous 
one. Mrs M phoned Capital One several  times to chase for the card as it hadnt  arrived. She 
received the card about a month after she first requested it. 
A few weeks  later, Mrs M tried to use the card for an online purchase, but it wouldnt go 
through. Mrs M called and emailed Capital One several times to try to resolve  the issue. 
Eventually Capital  One realised that it was due to an error in removing the spending block 
from Mrs Ms card. It corrected the error  and offered Mrs M £10 compensation for her phone 
calls plus £50 for distress and inconvenience.  It credited a total of £60 to her account.
Our investigator thought the compensation  Capital One had paid was fair and reasonable. 
But Mrs M disagreed. She didnt  think this was enough to compensate  her for the frustration 
shed experienced. It was only after many  attempts of contacting, holding and waiting to speak 
to manager that she was advised that a spending  block was on her account in error. She said 
shed been promised several call backs from managers, but these hadnt  happened. 
Capital One offered to pay Mrs M a further £100  compensation  in addition to the £60 it had 
already paid her.
Our investigator thought Capital Ones offer of £160  was fair but Mrs M decided  not to 
accept it. She said the minimum she was prepared to accept to settle  her complaint was 
£500. She didnt  feel that Capital One had treated her as a valued customer. She said shed 
contacted Capital One numerous times and the operators hadnt seemed interested  in trying 
to sort out her account and most  of them didnt  understand  what  was happening to it. 
As Mrs M has disagreed  with our investigators  view, her complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One has acknowledged that the issues with Mrs M firstly not receiving her card and 
then not being able to use it, were due to its errors.  So, what Ive needed to consider is 
whether the £160 compensation Capital One has offered Mrs M to settle her complaint is fair. 
Mrs M was understandably  frustrated  at the length  of time Capital One took to identify that 
there was a block on her card. It took about  three months from Mrs M first requesting a new 
card until she was eventually able to use it. During  that time Mrs M contacted Capital One 
several times to try to resolve the situation. She found that she had to explain things over 
and over again to Capital  One staff and her calls werent returned by managers. She was 
particularly concerned that she wouldnt be able to use her card when she went away  on 
holiday in February.
Ref: DRN66593052I appreciate that Mrs M was frustrated that she wasnt able to use the card and that Capital 
One staff didnt seem to understand  what the issue was or know  how to resolve it for her. 
She also spent a lot of time on phone calls,  emails and waiting for call backs  from managers. 
Fortunately, the matter  was resolved  before Mrs M was due to go on holiday, but it still would 
have been a worry that she might  not have  been able to use her card while she was away.
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs M, but having thought carefully  about  Capital Ones  
failings and the impact  these had on her, I think the £160 it has offered to settle her 
complaint is fair and reasonable. So, I wont ask Capital One to pay any more than this. 
my final decision
Capital One (Europe) plc has offered Mrs M £160 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision  is Capital  One (Europe) plc should pay Mrs M £100 in addition to the £60 it has 
already paid her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6659305