K822xcomplaint
Ms L complains that Europ Assistance S.A. (EA) didnt pay her travel insurance claim and 
about its service. 
background 
When Ms L took out her travel insurance policy the insurer was EA. Before  she travelled the 
insurer and emergency  assistance provider changed  from EA.
On 25 May 2018 Ms L injured her foot while on holiday. The next day she visited  the local 
hospital and was diagnosed with a sprained  ankle. She gave the hospital her insurance  
details and it emailed  EA. 
Ms L, and her sister  on her behalf,  contacted  the policy administrators, her travel company 
and the new emergency assistance  provider (whose  details were  on some of the 
documents) to see how to progress her claim.  
Confusion followed as to who was responsible for dealing with Ms Ls claim. On 29 May she 
was told there was a problem with the insurance  and she had no cover. The hospital  told her 
she should pay the bill in full and threatened her passport could be taken  off her or she could 
be stopped at the airport if there was no payment. The hospital didnt give Ms L a copy  of the 
bill and she didnt pay the full costs.
Ms Ls sister  contacted EA on 30 May and explained  her sister had been treated for a 
sprained ankle.  It said as Ms L didnt then need urgent medical treatment it would investigate 
as it couldnt find the policy on its database.  It said it tried to contact Ms Ls sister 
unsuccessfully but made  contact on 5 June when it told her it needed a medical report  to see 
if Ms L needed any medical help in returning  home  as it couldnt get the report  from the 
hospital. EA also says it tried to contact Ms L over several days, without success.
EA next made contact  with Ms L in mid June,  just after shed  returned  home.  Ms L says 
shed gone through the airport being very scared that shed be stopped and arrested as the 
bill hadnt  been  paid.
Ms L complained to us, represented  by her sister. Some  of the matters she raised  were  
complaints about  the policy administrator's actions. It offered to pay Ms L £250 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience that its poor service  caused, which she 
agreed. The other issues she raised  were about EAs service  and that it still hadnt  paid the 
hospital bill. She said EA had caused her a lot of distress, inconvenience, embarrassment  
and damage to her reputation. She was on holiday alone and very scared about the 
hospitals threats. Also she and her family had incurred phone charges and inconvenience  in 
calling the businesses involved to try to help her.
Our investigator said EA should pay the hospital bill (less excess), provide Ms L with 
evidence it has been paid and pay her £500 compensation for her overall  distress  and 
inconvenience.
EA agreed. It sent a payment authorisation to the hospital and a copy was sent to Ms L.
Ms L wants an ombudsmans  decision. She says £500 compensation isnt enough  and shes 
looking for £1,500  to £2,000 compensation. She says EA's delay in paying the bill meant she 
Ref: DRN61744332wasnt able to join her mother on holiday in the relevant country in Autumn 2018 or book her 
holiday there for 2019 for fear of being  stopped at passport control  or by the police due to 
non-payment of the hospital costs. She also said shed lost early booking discount  for her 
2019 holiday. As a lone traveller she felt safe going  to that area as she knew it well. She 
thought that if she needed  to go to the same hospital it was likely to refuse to treat her or ask 
her to pay due to the issue  with EA and her reputation with the hospital  has been damaged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
EA has now sent guarantee of payment of costs to the hospital  and offered Ms L £500 
compensation. I have  to decide if thats a fair and reasonable offer for Ms Ls distress and 
inconvenience it caused, and I think it is, Ill explain why.
Our investigators set out what happened  in her view letters on Ms Ls complaint  about EA 
and the policy administrator. Ms L was given  wrong  information about her insurance cover  
and general poor service.  The policy administrator  played a part in that which  it accepted 
and Ms L accepted its offer of compensation.
Ms L also wasnt helped  by the hospital's behaviour.  It didnt provide EA with the medical 
report or the bill. I appreciate the hospital's comments to Ms L about  what  might  happen  if 
she didnt pay the bill frightened her, but EA isnt responsible for how the hospital  behaved. 
But EA is responsible for some poor service and in particular the delay in paying  the bill. 
Ive seen no reason  why EA shouldnt have been able to confirm  that it had a policy  for Ms L 
soon after she contacted it. If it had done  so EA would have saved Ms L some  trouble and 
upset. That doesnt  mean EA should have guaranteed cover  for the claim straight away as it 
reasonably wanted to see a medical report from the hospital, which it didnt receive  until 
6 June. It may have  also wanted to look at Ms Ls medical history  as part of assessing the 
claim (although Ive seen  no evidence it's done so).
From the evidence Ive seen I accept EA had difficulties contacting Ms L by phone  which  
were beyond EAs control. As Ms L and her sister cant provide itemised phone bills it's not 
clear which business  they were  calling at various points. However as EA knew it couldnt 
contact Ms L by phone  it would have been reasonable to email  her. Even if it couldnt 
confirm it would cover the claim  at that stage it would have gone some  way to reassuring 
Ms L her claim hadnt been forgotten.
EAs main area of poor of service is that it took too long to confirm to the hospital that it 
would guarantee the costs. Ive seen  no evidence that it tried to get the bill details from the 
hospital since June  2018. It only guaranteed the costs in November 2018, after 
recommendation by our investigator. So it took five months  after Ms L made the claim to 
accept it would pay.
Ive not seen a copy  of the bill so I dont know the costs involved, although as it was 
treatment of a sprained ankle its unlikely to be very expensive. But Ive noted the impact 
Ms L says EAs delay  had on her which Im sorry to see. As to her missed holiday with her 
mother Ive no evidence  that Ms L had already booked that holiday and lost any costs due to 
EAs actions. I note what  she says about missing  out on the early booking  discount for her 
Ref: DRN617443332019 holiday. But while I understand why that destination was her preferred option  she did 
have the choice of holidaying  elsewhere if a discount was very important to her.
Ms L and I dont know what the hospitals  reaction would be if she needed treatment  there 
again and I cant  make an award based  on what only might be. Also if the hospital did refuse 
to treat her that would  be a complaint  to the hospital, not EAs responsibility.  If the hospital  
did ask for payment of treatment upfront many hospitals do so in any event.
Overall Im satisfied that £500 is a fair and reasonable  offer for Ms Ls distress  and 
inconvenience caused by EA.
Ms Ls mentioned that her sister has been inconvenienced by EA in assisting her but Ms L is 
the policyholder  and I can only make  an award about her distress  and inconvenience. Ive no 
evidence of phone call costs for Ms L to see if she made unnecessary calls to EA to consider 
if it ought to pay some  of those costs.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Europ Assistance S.A.to  pay: 
the hospital costs (less the policy excess)  as its now agreed to do and its sent a 
guarantee of payment to the hospital, and
£500 compensation to Ms L for her distress  and inconvenience it caused, as its now 
agreed.
Europ Assistance S.A. must pay the compensation within 28 days  of us telling it that Ms L 
has accepted  my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6174433