K821x#15complaint
Mr G invested in a scheme  operated by Old Park Capital Limited (OPC).   The scheme 
involved the development of a property.  Its an unregulated collective investment scheme 
structured as a limited liability partnership (LLP).  Mr G complains about the way OPC 
managed the scheme.  
Mr G also complains that OPCs management  of the scheme  caused  him to be fined £1,500  
plus by HMRC in relation  to late filing of documents in tax years 2013/14, 2014/15, 2015/16 
and 2016/17 (though  the last fine seems to have been waived).
Mr G therefore  wants  compensation for his investment loss, for the fines he incurred, and for 
the stress  and upset  he has suffered.  
background
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators.  She thought the complaint 
should be upheld.   She made a number of points including the following:
Mr G invested approximately  £50,000 in the scheme in 2013.   This was matched with 
a loan meaning a total of over £100,000 was invested.
The objective of the scheme  was to refurbish and develop  a property.  The  plan was 
to use a tax allowance called Business Premises Renovation Allowance (BPRA).
The informational memorandum for the scheme  said the target was to raise  almost 
£7 million with a target of initial  debt of 47% so the target was to raise £3.75 million  
from investors.
In the event less than £0.5 million was raised  from investors.   OPC continued with 
the scheme without  telling investors that the fund raising  target had not been  
reached.
The scheme later ran into problems and the refurbishment/redevelopment is still not 
complete and let to a tenant  as originally planned. 
OPC  had delayed in filing papers with HMRC  which led to it fining Mr G.
An ombudsman had decided  complaints involving  the same issues  with the same 
investment.  This complaint ought  to be resolved in the same way.
OPC  was at fault in continuing with the scheme  without  telling  Mr G and giving him 
the chance to withdraw his investment.  
And OPC was also at fault in relation  to the tax returns.
OPC  should therefore repay the money Mr G invested with interest, and compensate  
him for the fines he had to pay HMRC.   And  pay him £750 for the trouble and upset it 
had caused.
Mr G agreed with the adjudicator.  OPC did not.  It made a number of points including the 
following:
It does not think it has treated investors  in the scheme unfairly.  It thinks  it may not 
have explained  its position sufficiently clearly  in the earlier  complaints considered by 
the ombudsman  service.
The problems with the tax returns were because  of problems  at HMRC.  OPC 
operated diligently  and in good faith even if it did make  some errors of judgment. 
Under the Member  Agreement OPC  is entitled  to be indemnified  by members for any 
liability it incurs in discharging its duties.
Ref: DRN64919602The information memorandum made it clear it was expected that funds would  be 
raised across two tax years.  Within  weeks of launch OPC had raised £0.5 million  of 
equity and £3.25 million of debt meaning it had substantially reached its indicative 
target.
A review of BPRA conditions was announced  by HMRC in the summer of 2013.   
HMRC gave new guidance in December 2014.   The uncertainty created by the 
review meant it was not possible to raise the second tranche of capital in tax year 
2013/14 as originally planned.
The delay in raising the second  tranche of equity capital caused delays in the project 
and financial difficulties for the developer.   It caused the backers of the main 
participant in the project, who had agreed  to provide the debt finance, to withdraw its 
support.  There was a default on the provision  of the agreed financing which 
compounded the difficulties  of the developer who defaulted on the acquisition of the 
site.  
The fact that the ratio of debt to equity  was different to the initial  target ratio of 47:53 
was not deemed  to be a hindrance.   Rather it was seen as an advantage from an 
investors standpoint since the basis  of the tax relief to investors is the overall 
investment in the development cost whether funded by equity  or debt.  An  increased 
debt/equity ratio mechanically  increases the tax relief to be received by investors 
relative to the equity  invested without increasing the liability  risk to investors  since the 
investors are not directly liable for the debt incurred  by the LLP.
Despite the delays in the project  OPC has continued to work diligently on this project 
raising further money in 2017 and 2018.
OPC  expects the project to be completed  in the first half of 2019.   The  local authority 
is involved in the project and may become the lessee and things  are looking positive.
OPC  has worked diligently on the project  on behalf of investors  and Mr Gs complaint 
is misconceived.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
OPC says the information memorandum pointed out that it was explained that the fund- 
raising would span two tax years.   And OPC makes the point that half the funds  were  raised 
in the first year albeit  mostly through borrowing rather  than equity.  The implication is that 
this was a matter that should not be seen as unreasonable  or unacceptable.
The information memorandum included the following:
It is intended that the purchase  and redevelopment  of the Property will be funded 
through the combination of Capital Contributions and the Loan,  with the target  
aggregate initial debt being  47% of the Purchase  Price.  The total funds required to 
be raised by the LLP in order for the Offer to proceed are £3,750,000
If insufficient subscriptions in the view of Old Park Capital are received and a 
financial close fails to occur, then monies  subscribed, with any interest  earned on 
them, will be returned to subscribers.  
As I understand it only about £0.25 million of equity was raised from subscribers in the first 
tax year.   And there was an agreement for £3.24 million of debt finance. That is a combined 
total of about £3.5 million which was below the sum subscribers were  told the project 
Ref: DRN64919603needed.  Added to that, the ratio of equity to debt finance was very different to what the 
information memorandum suggested would be the case.   
It is my view that the raising of only a small fraction of the target equity was a significant  
matter.  If an enterprise fails to raise  its target  capital it is highly unlikely to be able to perform 
in the way originally anticipated.  Even  though the plan included  a degree of uncertainty  
because of the intention to begin  before all funds  were received, raising only a fraction  of the 
capital had large implications.  At the very least it meant the balance  of debt to equity 
funding changed  greatly.  In  my view the implication was greater than that.  It made  the 
project vulnerable  and made it far harder to cope  with any problems that might arise such  as 
problems with the developer. Indeed  they made such problems far more  likely.
In my view OPC, the operator of the scheme,  should  have  checked  with Mr G that he wanted 
to go ahead in the circumstances.
Further it is my view that if OPC  had asked  for that consent it would not have been given.  
As I have mentioned,  the circumstances had changed considerably and the risks for the 
investor and the vulnerability of scheme  had increased.
In my view Mr Gs money should have been returned to him from the outset.   When I say the 
outset I mean an early stage.  It would have taken a period  of time to realise how much 
capital had been raised, consider things,  ask Mr G if he wanted to proceed,  receive his reply  
and process the repayment to him.  That payment  should have been made with interest if 
earned.  It  may be that in practice little or no interest  was earned because  OPC started to 
operate the scheme but if it had been more  prudent it seems likely that some interest could 
have been earned even  if in practice  it was not. So I will assume  interest will have been paid 
at Bank  of England base rate from the time of investment to the time of repayment.   Its not 
possible to know exactly when that money would  reasonably have been repaid  so I will 
assume it would  have been repaid by the end of the first quarter of the second tax year ie 30 
June 2013.  And from that time Mr G has not had the use of that money so should be paid 
simple interest of 8% per year to the date of this decision.
I also think the problems  with HMRC would have  been avoided if OPC  had managed things 
with reasonable  skill and care as it was required to.  The problems were  not down to matters 
of judgment where  there is room for more than one reasonable opinion.  It is just a matter of 
the normal performance of the duties of an operator  of a collective investment scheme.  It 
should deal with authorities such as HMRC effectively so that investors are not penalised for 
things like missed deadlines.  
I do not consider  that it is fair and reasonable for OPC  to avoid the consequence  of its poor 
service because of an indemnity in the agreement  that ought to apply  only to any liability  it 
incurs in the reasonable exercise of its duties.
So its my view that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. OPC should  therefore pay 
reasonable compensation as follows.
In respect of the tax return problems, OPC must  pay compensation to Mr G equal to the 
fines or penalties he has paid plus interest  from the time Mr G paid HMRC to the time the 
compensation is paid to Mr G by OPC.   That interest  is to be at the rate of 8% simple per 
year to the date of this decision.   Mr G will need to provide  evidence  of payment to OPC.
Ref: DRN64919604With regard to trouble  and upset, I can see that Mr Gs dealings  with this investment have 
turned out to be very frustrating  and worrying.  Hes  not only seemed to have lost the money 
he invested, he has ended up incurring further  costs  in penalties/fines of £1,500  or so  with 
HMRC over a number of tax years.  OPC  should therefore pay Mr G £750 for the trouble and 
upset it has caused  him.  
OPC should also pay compensation to Mr G on the following basis:
Pay Mr G compensation equal  to the sum he invested (plus  interest at Bank of 
England base rate from the time of the investment until 30 June 2013).  This should  
include the borrowed money, and any interest,  if Mr G has repaid or has to repay the 
borrowing.
Pay Mr G compensation to make good any fines imposed by HMRC  in relation to late 
filing of tax returns due to the acts or omissions of OPC  - subject to Mr G providing 
proof of payment.
Pay Mr G £750 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to him. 
Against this Mr G should  give credit  for any tax relief  or any similar benefit he has 
received from HMRC and which he has not repaid or is liable to repay  (if there is 
any). 
And Mr G should, if OPC requests  it, assign  to it any interests  he has in the 
partnership (or the partnerships capital account) so that if there  is any present or 
future value in the partnership from which Mr G could get any benefit  it will go to OPC 
rather than to him.
Pay interest to Mr G on the sums due to him for the time he has not had the use of 
his money until the date of this decision. Interest is to be paid at the rate of 8% 
simple per year.  
Interest at 8% per year is to be paid on the above  compensation (including interest  to the 
date of this decision) from the date of this decision to the date of payment if it is not paid to 
Mr G within  28 days of OPC being informed of Mr Gs acceptance of this decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Old Park Capital Limited and direct it to pay fair 
compensation to Mr G, as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6491960