K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that Hoyl Independent  Advisers Ltd (Hoyl)  didnt carry out her wishes  to 
invest only in ethical  funds. She also complains about other  aspects of the advice and 
information Hoyl have  provided to her.
background
Miss P met an adviser from Hoyl in January 2017  to discuss investing her savings. Following 
that meeting,  an investment portfolio was set up for Miss P which  invested  in a number of 
funds.
Miss P met the adviser  again in April 2017  to discuss investing a further £11,000. She also 
told the adviser she wanted  to replace one of the funds in her portfolio as shed noticed it 
wasnt fully invested  in ethical businesses. The adviser agreed to switch to another  fund.
A few days  later Miss P told the adviser  she didnt want any of her funds to be invested in 
weapons, oil, meat or alcohol. The adviser asked her to look at the fund factsheets and let 
him know which ones  she wanted to remove from her portfolio. Hoyl produced a revised 
suitability report for Miss P, showing how her portfolio would  be changed. 
Miss Ps portfolio was due to be reviewed in February 2018. At that point, she noticed that 
the changes discussed with Hoyl in April 2017  hadnt been made. 
Miss P complained to Hoyl that they hadnt carried out her instructions  regarding ethical 
investments. She said this put her reputation  at risk. 
In response, Hoyl said theyd corrected and rebalanced Miss Ps portfolio. They offered 
Miss P a refund of the ongoing  charges shed paid - £319.19. Miss P initially  accepted Hoyls 
offer, but then decided to decline it. She said Hoyl should also refund the initial  adviser fee of 
£1,000. Hoyl later withdrew their offer to refund the ongoing charges. 
Miss P also complained  about a number  of other issues. She didnt think  Hoyl had given her 
clear information about their charges,  her capital being at risk, and the performance of her 
portfolio. She also said she was pressured into signing paperwork and not given time to think 
about what she was agreeing to.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint.  He said that, from April 2017, Hoyl hadnt  
made investments in line with Miss Ps objectives.  He thought  it would have been distressing 
for Miss P to find her funds  werent invested ethically as shed thought. He said Hoyl should 
pay Miss P £250 in compensation. 
Miss P thought Hoyl should pay more compensation, and asked for an ombudsman  to make 
a final decision.
I gave my provisional decision in June  2019.  My provisional findings are set out below.
ethical investments
I couldnt be sure what was said during Miss Ps first discussion with the Hoyl adviser  in 
January 2017.  But Id looked at the paperwork from the time,  and Id not seen  evidence  that 
Ref: DRN67143862Miss P mentioned her preference for ethical investments.  So I couldnt say that Hoyl failed  to 
act on Miss Ps instructions in their initial advice to her. 
I said Miss P did make clear her preference for ethical investments  when  she was looking to 
invest further in April 2017. She asked for a fund which invested in an alcoholic drinks 
company to be removed  from her portfolio. Hoyl also asked Miss P to read the factsheets on 
funds she was invested in, and let them know which  ones she wanted to remove from her 
portfolio. In response, Miss P said she didnt want to invest in anything which would expose  
her to investments in weapons, oil, alcohol or meat.
Our investigator noted that the fund factsheets only gave the top 10 holdings for each fund. 
He didnt think it was reasonable for Hoyl to put the onus on Miss P to establish which funds 
met her objectives. And he said there were a number of funds in Miss Ps portfolio that had 
top 10 holdings  in areas that Miss P said she didnt want to be exposed  to. 
I agreed with our investigator that Hoyl should  have  done more  to understand fully Miss Ps 
investment objectives,  and identify investments that were suitable  for her.   
In addition, Hoyl accepted that the changes they proposed to Miss Ps portfolio werent made 
when they should have  been. Miss P identified this mistake almost a year later when  her 
portfolio was due to be renewed.
I thought carefully  about how Hoyl should  compensate Miss P for these failings. Miss P had 
suggested that Hoyl should repay all the charges shed  paid to them,  including  their initial 
fee. I disagreed with that because I didnt  think Hoyl had done  anything wrong when they 
first gave Miss P advice in January 2017.
When Miss P first complained, Hoyl offered to refund the ongoing charges of £319.19  that 
shed paid. Hoyl later withdrew that offer when  Miss P said she wouldnt accept it. 
But Miss P had paid Hoyl to advise  her on how to meet her investment objectives  and to 
make investments on her behalf. And I didnt think theyd done  what they should have. So I 
thought it would be fair and reasonable for Hoyl to refund the ongoing  charges of £319.19, 
as they had originally offered.  
I also took account of what  Miss P had said about her circumstances and her preference  for 
ethical investments. Having done so, I thought Hoyl should  also compensate Miss P for the 
distress theyd caused her. And overall,  I thought an additional  payment of £250 would be 
fair and reasonable.
Hoyl had said that Miss P didnt lose out financially by what  happened. They  said the funds 
that should have been removed had made a positive contribution to the returns  on her 
portfolio. If her money  had been invested  as shed wanted then its likely her portfolio 
wouldnt have performed as well. 
I took account of what Hoyl had said. But there were significant shortcomings  in the service 
that Miss P received,  and which  shed paid for. And Hoyls mistakes caused  Miss P distress 
and inconvenience.  So I thought it was right that Hoyl should compensate Miss P in the way 
I proposed.  
Ref: DRN67143863other complaint points
Miss P complained that Hoyls adviser rushed  her into signing paperwork before shed had 
the chance to read it. And as a result, she ended up agreeing to investments  that she 
wouldnt have wanted.
I looked carefully at what Miss P said about  this, and at the paperwork from the time. 
I couldnt be sure what was said during the conversations between Miss P and the adviser. 
But from what Id seen,  it seemed the adviser asked  Miss P about her circumstances and 
her investment objectives. 
I noted that the adviser himself completed the paperwork, which isnt unusual. And Miss P 
would have had the opportunity to review  the documents before signing them. 
Overall, I said I hadnt seen enough evidence  to say that the documents  Miss P signed didnt 
reflect her wishes, or that she was rushed  into signing them.  I couldnt  therefore say that 
Hoyl did anything wrong on that point.  
Miss P also said she was given unclear information about the charges for Hoyls  services 
and the performance  of her portfolio. 
Again, I looked at what Miss P had said and the paperwork she was given. And overall,  I 
agreed with our investigator that Miss P was given clear enough information  about both the 
charges and the performance of her portfolio. 
Miss P said it wasnt fair that the initial fee she paid was a percentage of the amount she 
was investing,  rather than a fixed fee. But I said it wasnt unreasonable for Hoyl to charge in 
that way, and I thought Miss P was given clear  enough information about  the charge before 
she agreed to use Hoyls services.    
Miss P also said it was unfair she was given information about the growth rate of funds in her 
portfolio that didnt  take account  of charges. But I thought the information Miss P was given 
was sufficiently clear. Hoyl were showing the growth  of the fund, but they also gave  Miss P 
information on the charges. 
And Miss P said she was given misleading information  about the likely performance of her 
portfolio. I noted that Hoyl gave her information  about the performance of funds in her 
portfolio over the previous  five years. But I thought  it was clear that the figures related to 
past performance, and were not a guarantee of future returns.  
I also said that I hadnt seen any evidence that Hoyl told Miss P there would be no risk to her 
capital. So I didnt think Hoyl had misled  Miss P by the information  they provided.
Finally, I looked at what Miss P had said about not being given pensions advice. The 
paperwork from Miss Ps first meeting with the Hoyl adviser said that advice would be given 
on investments only. Miss P agreed  to review her pension position at a later date. So I 
couldnt say Hoyl had done anything wrong by not providing advice on pensions at that time.  
Ref: DRN67143864summary of my provisional decision
I said I was planning  to uphold Miss Ps complaint that Hoyl didnt carry out her instructions 
in relation to making ethical investments. As compensation, I thought  Hoyl should  reimburse  
the ongoing charges of £319.19,  and pay Miss P an additional £250  for the distress caused.
I didnt think Hoyl needed to do anything further  in respect of Miss Ps other  complaint  points.   
responses to my provisional  decision
In response to my provisional decision,  Miss P has said she made it clear from the start that 
she only wanted to make ethical investments. Shes provided some additional 
correspondence to support what  she says.  Miss P thinks  Hoyl should repay her initial fee.
Miss P has also said that Hoyl lied to her about the growth of funds in her portfolio. And that 
paperwork regarding her risk assessment was only filled in by her over a year after she 
made her initial investments. Miss P also complains that Hoyl removed her as a client  after 
she asked to change  to a transactional agreement. 
Hoyl have said they disagree with the amount of compensation I proposed they should  pay 
to Miss P. They say her portfolio performed  better than it would have if theyd made the 
changes Miss P requested. Hoyl believe this more than compensates  Miss P for whats 
happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ethical investments
Miss P has provided copies of some emails  between her and Hoyl in 2017. The earliest  is 
dated 21 February 2017. In the email,  Miss P said she didnt want to invest  in anything that 
was unethical or bad for the environment.  She also referred to the additional investment she 
planned to make at the end of March.
In reply to Miss P, Hoyls adviser said anything that needed to be addressed would be put in 
place for when they met in March.  Miss P agreed to that.
Miss Ps email  of 21 February was just over a month after her first meeting with Hoyls 
adviser. Hoyls  suitability  report  for Miss P, setting out the proposed  investments, was dated 
23 January. And Miss P signed her ISA portfolio  application form on 2 February.        
Ive taken account of the emails that Miss P has provided, but they dont change my 
decision. Ive not seen  evidence that Miss P mentioned her preference  for ethical 
investments when she first met Hoyl in January 2017. The first mention seems to have been  
in her email of 21 February,  after Hoyl had given their advice and Miss P had made her initial 
investment. So I cant say that Hoyl failed to act on Miss Ps instructions  in their initial advice 
to her. 
But the email  of 21 February is further evidence that Miss P made clear her preference  for 
ethical investments before she made  additional investments in April 2017. And Hoyl told her 
theyd address her wishes when  they met to discuss her further investments. 
Ref: DRN67143865Once Miss P had made her wishes known, I think Hoyl should have done more  to 
understand fully her investment objectives, and identify investments that were suitable for 
her. And, as I said in my provision decision,  Hoyl then failed to change Miss Ps portfolio 
after theyd agreed  to do so.    
Ive looked again at how Hoyl should compensate  Miss P for these failings. Miss P continues 
to think Hoyl should repay all the charges she paid to them,  including  their initial fee. But I 
disagree with that because  I still dont think Hoyl did anything wrong when they first gave 
Miss P advice in January  2017.
Hoyl dont think they should have to refund the ongoing charges of £319.19 that Miss P paid. 
They say that if Miss Ps money had been  invested as shed wanted then its likely her 
portfolio wouldnt  have performed as well. As Miss Ps investments have grown,  they think it 
would be unfair  for her also to receive compensation in the way I proposed.    
Ive taken account of what  Hoyl have said, but my decision  remains  the same.  As I said in 
my provisional decision, Miss P paid Hoyl for advice on how to meet  her investment 
objectives, and to make investments on her behalf. Hoyl didnt do what  they should have, 
and have caused Miss P significant  distress  and inconvenience.  
So I think it would be fair and reasonable for Hoyl to refund the ongoing charges of £319.19, 
and pay Miss P an additional  £250 for the distress  caused.
other complaint points
Ive considered everything that Miss P has said, but my decision  on her other complaint 
points remains the same.
Ive looked at the paperwork Miss P has provided,  but Ive not seen enough evidence to say 
Hoyl misled her about the growth of her funds. And overall,  I think  the information Miss P 
was given was sufficiently clear. 
Miss P has said she only filled in paperwork about  her risk assessment a year after she 
made her first investments. I can see that a risk assessment was completed in February 
2018, and I think  Miss P is most  likely referring  to that document.  
But from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Hoyls  adviser also discussed Miss Ps attitude  to 
risk with her in January 2017. The suitability  report produced by the adviser at that time 
referred to a risk profiling exercise having  been completed with Miss P, and discussed  her 
attitude to risk in some  detail. Ive also seen a risk and suitability questionnaire that was 
completed in April 2017.     
 
Miss P is also unhappy that Hoyl said theyd remove her as a client after she asked to 
change to a transactional agreement. Ive seen the letter Hoyl sent her in August 2018 
saying that, in line with their client  agreement,  they were giving her seven days notice of 
ending their agreement. But, based on the terms of Miss Ps agreement,  I dont think  Hoyl 
did anything wrong  here.   
I know Miss P feels strongly  about whats happened. I can also see there  has at times been  
some confusion in communications between Miss P and Hoyl. But, based on the evidence  
Ref: DRN67143866Ive seen, I cant fairly say that Hoyl have done  anything wrong  in relation to Miss Ps other 
complaint points. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint  against 
Hoyl Independent Advisers  Ltd.  
Hoyl Independent Advisers  Ltd should  pay Miss P £319.19 for the charges Ive said should 
be reimbursed, and £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6714386