K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Ms L says Capital One (Europe)  plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms L has said she was told she had to take it out and she didnt need it but I think Capital 
One made it clear that Ms L didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Capital One has said the PPI was taken out in a phone call nearly seven  years  after the 
initial credit card application was processed. It no longer has a record of the call but it has 
sent us copies of telephone guidance  processes  which  it says it expected  its staff to follow 
when selling  PPI over the phone at that time. Capital One says this would reflect the 
conversation it would have had with Ms L. And whilst I cant be certain what was discussed  
in the call, this document does direct the advisor to ask for a customers  permission before 
adding PPI to the account.
As this policy was taken out quite  some time after the initial  credit card application was 
made, I think Ms L would  have been aware that she didnt need  to take out the PPI in 
order to get the credit card and that it wasnt a mandatory requirement of the credit.
So overall, based on what Ive seen and what I know about Capital Ones  sales practices at 
the time,  I think its more likely  Capital One made it clear the PPI was optional and Ms L 
chose to take it, knowing she could refuse it if she wanted to.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms L so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms L got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Ms L.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms L because: 
Ref: DRN61465582Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms L about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Ms L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium by crediting  her account - and I think  that is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms L has said - including what  she has said about not needing 
the policy as she was entitled to sick pay. But this policy  would have paid out for up to 12 
months, which would have been  in addition to, and potentially for longer than, her sick pay. 
And it would have provided  cover for the same length of time if she had lost her job. As Ms L 
had no other  means with which  to meet her repayments in this situation, I think it could have  
provided a useful benefit to her.
Ms L has also told us that she could  have asked her friends and family to help her with the 
repayments. Whilst I appreciate that her family and friends would have  wanted  to help, their 
support cant be guaranteed as their circumstances can also change, meaning they are 
unable to provide  such  financial assistance.  So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc does  not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Ms L.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Ms L any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6146558