K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
February 2004 alongside a credit card. Miss E, who is represented  by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Miss E didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. From what Ive 
seen about the card application process,  I think Miss E made a decision to take out the 
policy when she applied  for the credit  card by filling out and signing  an application form. 
Ive seen that on her form shed  ticked a box to show she wanted  to take out PPI. And I 
think, given that she filled out the application  in her own time, she had the opportunity 
think about whether  she wanted  PPI to go with her new card and decided  she did. 
 BoS say it didnt recommend the PPI to Miss E so didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it still had to make sure that Miss E got the information she needed to decide if 
she wanted to buy the PPI. Ive seen that the application form had some key information 
about the policy and the cost of the cover. And its likely that she would have received 
further policy details  soon after shed decided to buy the cover.  
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful to her if something went wrong.  I say this having taken into account that 
Miss E told us she enjoyed good benefits  from her employer   of up to six months full 
pay followed by six months  at half pay if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness. 
But the PPI would pay out in addition to and most likely for longer than her employer 
would. And it would also pay out if she lost her job, alongside any redundancy pay shed 
receive. So she wouldnt have  to rely on other sources of funding to help out. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put Miss E off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss E paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Miss E back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN63434592From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS has already  paid this to Miss E. But if it hasnt for 
some reason, BoS can make arrangements to pay the offer sum to Miss E now Ive issued 
my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6343459