K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) was wrong  not to offer to renew his 
motor insurance policy.  He says its decision was due to his age.
background
In November 2017 Mr L called UKI to ask it to re-start his motor  insurance policy.  His car 
had been certified  as off the road whilst Mr L was abroad for four months. The advisor  
said UKI would  allow  the policy to run until it lapsed (in February 2018). She said it 
wouldnt offer to renew the policy as Mr L had been  out of the UK for four months. He 
asked if it made a difference if he wasnt away for a continuous period. The advisor then 
said if Mr L was out of the UK for more than 90 days in total in a year UKI couldnt offer 
to cover him.
Mr L seemed to accept  what the advisor  said. But he wasnt happy  when UKI wrote to 
him early in 2018  without stating the reason  for not offering to renew the policy.  Mr L 
thought UKIs decision was due to his age. UKI replied to his complaint on 24 May 2018. 
It said to be offered a policy,  any consumer  had to spend most of their time in the UK. It 
told Mr L that hed said he spent over six months abroad and that its advisor had said in 
November 2017  that it wouldnt renew  the policy. UKI apologised to Mr L for not 
responding to his emails.  
Mr L replied to say hed never said he spent more time abroad than in the UK. But UKI 
pointed out that hed said in an email sent to UKI dated 2 May 2018 that he was abroad  
for over six months a year. 
As he wasnt satisfied with UKIs response, Mr L complained to this service.  One of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint. Initially, she thought UKI had acted reasonably, 
and in line with its policy terms,  as Mr L didnt meet its residency  criteria. She didnt think 
there was anything to show  that his age was a factor in UKIs decision. Mr L insisted he 
hadnt spent more than six months abroad. Recently, the investigator asked whether Mr 
L wanted her to ask UKI to review the situation,  but Mr L said he didnt, as hed decided  
to sell his car. 
Mr L accepted  that hed said in error  that he was abroad for more  than six months  of the 
year. He wanted  a copy of UKIs underwriting criteria, which couldnt be given to him, 
due to commercial sensitivity. Mr L also said he wanted £300 minimum in compensation
from UKI (to give to charity) for the effect on him of the treatment hed been given. The 
investigator noted that UKIs advisor had made a mistake in November 2017. Shed 
given 
Mr L the wrong information  (and started the process  that led to no offer of renewal).  So 
the investigator asked  whether UKI would make an offer to Mr L. It declined to do so. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Mr Ls complaint  as follows:
UKI has given us details  of its underwriting criteria, which confirm that it wont offer a 
policy to anyone who doesnt spend  the majority of their time in the UK. I think  UKI is 
entitled to decide what its residency criteria are. But I dont think thats the reason Mr L 
didnt get a renewal  offer in February  2018. 
Ref: DRN66956802Mr L had told UKI in July 2017 that he was going  abroad for four months. The advisor  he 
spoke to in November 2017 said the policy wouldnt be renewed in 2018 because a 
consumers absence from the UK of more than 90 days wasnt  acceptable to UKI. That 
wasnt correct, so I think the lack of a renewal offer in 2018  was due to the advisors 
error.
When Mr L was told by letter that the policy wouldnt be renewed early in 2018, no 
reason was given.  I assume Mr L had forgotten what the advisor  said to him in 
November 2017.  Although  she gave  him the wrong details, she said the policy would 
lapse due to a residency issue, not Mr Ls age. I think it would have been good  practice  
to have set that out in writing. 
As UKI didnt give a written reason, Mr L couldnt understand why there was no renewal 
offer. He says he has an exemplary driving  / claims record. So he assumed the decision 
must have  been  based on his age. I think its clear  that Mr L was very upset by that 
possibility. But in my opinion, the evidence  shows that UKIs  decision was based on the 
advisors error, rather than any other factor.
Mr L wrote  to UKI on 2 May 2018 to query  not being  given a reason for the non-renewal.  
He said in his opinion the decision must be due to his age. But he also said his car was 
locked in a garage  for over six months of the year as he was abroad for over six months. 
Mr L later said the only time he was outside  the UK for more than six months  was during 
his former  career, years  earlier. I dont think theres any evidence that Mr L lives abroad 
for more than six months a year. But I think the point  is that Mr L made that statement 
several months after UKI told him it wasnt going  to renew the policy. Had he said it in 
November 2017,  I think UKI would  have had good reason not to offer a renewal. But in 
my opinion, UKI cant rely on what Mr L said (and later retracted)  in May 2018 to justify 
the decision it made six months earlier (November  2017) and put into effect  in February  
2018. 
Mr L had been  insured  with UKI for many years. So had UKIs advisor not made an error 
in November 2017, I think its likely that he would have renewed the policy with it in 
2018. He wouldnt  have had any worries about  possible  less favourable  treatment due to 
his age. And he wouldnt have had to look for insurance elsewhere at that time. So I 
think Mr L was inconvenienced  as well as very upset as a result  of the error. 
UKI advised our investigator in December 2018  that it would review  the situation.  It said 
it should be able to offer Mr L a quote if he confirmed  that he wasnt  spending more  than 
six months a year outside the UK. But by that point Mr L no longer had a car to insure. 
UKI has accepted  that its customer service team should have done more to contact  Mr L 
in 2018 in response to his emails about  the non-renewal. It apologised to him for that 
and said it would provide feedback to the team. It also said it gave feedback  to the 
advisor who misadvised him in November 2017. So UKI is aware  that it could have 
provided better service  to Mr L. Taking  everything  into account, I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for UKI to pay Mr L £150  compensation.  In my opinion  that sum, in 
addition to the actions UKI has already taken, would reflect the amount of distress and 
inconvenience hes faced.    
Ref: DRN66956803I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr L accepted them.  He 
confirmed again  that he had never been  abroad  for six months  or more in a year.  UKI 
said Mr L had told it he was abroad for six months a year. It accepted  that the wrong 
advice was given  to Mr L by its advisor  in November 2017, but it said Mr L didnt meet its 
residency criteria. UKI said as Mr L didnt contact it around the time of renewal, it 
assumed that he was out of the UK until May 2018,  which is when he called to query its 
non-renewal.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no evidence that Mr L was out of the UK from February  2018  to May 2018. I 
think there are many other reasons why he may not have contacted UKI about the non-
renewal earlier. And even if he was abroad during that period, I dont think it makes  any 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Mr L was allowed to spend up to six months  abroad during the policy  year without  falling 
foul of UKIs  residency  criteria. I think the reason his policy wasnt  renewed in 2018 is 
that UKIs  advisor  made an error. UKI has accepted  the error. I dont think  it can justify  
what happened by relying on a statement Mr L mad (in error) well after the decision not 
to renew his policy. 
I remain of the view that as UKI caused  Mr L distress and inconvenience as a result of 
its advisors error, it should pay him £150 compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr L £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6695680