K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI) with 
their mortgage in 1988. 
background
Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs W to say it didnt have any record  of them having PPI with their 
mortgage until 2007. It offered them a refund of premiums paid from 2007 onwards plus 
interest.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy  and so they brought a complaint to us. Our adjudicator  looked 
into the complaint  and didnt recommend that it be upheld. He considered that Lloyds  offer 
was fair in the circumstances.
Dissatisfied, Mr and Mrs W appealed  against the adjudicators  assessment.  Their  complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Essentially, Im satisfied  that Lloyds doesnt  retain  any evidence to show  Mr and Mrs W held 
PPI to protect their mortgage prior to 2007. It says such  records date back to no further than 
2001, which I dont  think is an unreasonable amount  of time. Nothing from that time or since 
shows PPI was in place when Mr and Mrs W say it was. 
Although I realise  Mr and Mrs W strongly feel they held PPI from the start of their mortgage  
and were told as much  after the event by Lloyds representatives  I cant fairly say that was 
the case. Im also aware that Mr W says he tried to claim under the policy  in 1997/1998,  at 
which point he says he cancelled it after discovering how long hed have to wait for the 
benefits to be paid, but I havent seen any evidence to support that.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W believe theyve been treated unfairly  by Lloyds  perhaps 
even deliberately so. But I dont consider that the available information  demonstrates  that 
Lloyds has acted in such a way. Indeed, Lloyds has recently emphasised  that if 
Mr and Mrs W are able to provide any evidence to show they paid PPI premiums  before 
2007, such as bank account  statements, it would  be willing to consider these further.  
Finally, if Mr and Mrs W believe Lloyds data retention procedures  breach relevant data 
protection guidance or laws, its open for them  to contact the Information Commissioners 
Office in the first instance, if they havent  already done so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN69123052Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6912305