K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about his mortgage lender,  NRAM Limited. Mr M says hes a mortgage rate 
prisoner who is trapped on NRAMs unfairly high standard variable rate (SVR). 
background
In 2007 Mr M took out a mortgage with Northern Rock, having received advice from a 
mortgage broker. He borrowed around  £720,000 over 25 years  on an interest  only basis.
In 2008 Northern Rock was nationalised. Mr Ms mortgage loan was transferred to NRAM.
Mr Ms has experienced health problems since taking  out the mortgage. This has affected 
his ability  to work at times and to pay his mortgage.  I understand the mortgage arrears  are 
currently over £40,000. 
Mr M has complained to NRAM about a number of issues over the years. This decision looks  
at Mr Ms complaint about the fairness  of the level of interest  charged on his mortgage,  and 
NRAMs decision not to offer Mr M new interest  rate products. 
Mr M complained to NRAM. NRAM didnt uphold  the complaint  and so Mr M brought the 
matter to us.
Our investigator didnt  think NRAM had acted unfairly. He didnt think NRAM had treated 
Mr M any differently to its other mortgage  customers and that it wasnt  offering any new 
interest rate products  following its nationalisation  in 2008. Our investigator  didnt think  that 
NRAM had said that its SVR would track the Bank of England base rate and he considered  
the rate of interest  Mr M had been charged was reasonable.
Mr M disagreed and replied to say, in summary:
-hed like us to refer to his mortgage lender as the British  Government because thats 
who he considers  his lender is;
-hes seen in the media about  the nationalisation  of Northern Rock and what has 
happened to loans previously owned  by Northern Rock. Mr M suspects wider 
wrongdoing in the UK mortgage market and that his mortgage has ended up with a 
Zombie Bank;
-he knows theres mounting pressure on the government  to help mortgage rate 
prisoners like him and that all lenders have spectacularly failed to help people  stuck 
on a high SVR.  
Mr M asked  that his case be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to say I dont  underestimate Mr Ms strength of feeling  about his complaint. Im 
conscious that this is a long running issue between Mr M and his mortgage  lender. Mr Ms 
been unhappy with NRAM, and felt trapped with his mortgage for many  years.  Mr M is 
clearly passionate  about the case hes making. Mr M has made observations  about the wider 
UK mortgage market  and the actions of the UK government following the financial crisis. 
Ref: DRN67887772Were an informal dispute resolution  service, set up to resolve things quickly  and as a free 
alternative to the courts. It is my role to look at individual  complaints brought against financial  
businesses and to determine whether I think a business has made  a mistake or acted 
unreasonably in all the specific circumstances of that individual  complaint. If Mr M is 
concerned about  wider  industry issues, he may wish to escalate this matter  to the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).  Mr Ms said hes also shared his concerns with his 
local MP. 
Whilst I have read all Mr Ms submissions,  Ive focused on the complaint Mr M has brought 
about his own mortgage and the interest  that NRAM has applied to his mortgage loan. Ive 
thought carefully  about all the evidence provided and the arguments that have been made. 
Im sorry  to hear that Mr M is experiencing long term ill health. I understand that this will 
have affected  his ability to work, both in the past and at present and will have made things 
very difficult for him. 
is it fair that NRAM isnt offering any new interest rate products? 
Mr Ms complained that hes a mortgage rate prisoner. Hes said hes trapped with his 
current lender, NRAM. And NRAM, as a closed book lender, is choosing not to make  any 
new interest rates available to him. In essence,  Mr Ms dilemma  is that he cant go to another 
lender  and, he cant get a better rate where  he is.
Typically if Mr M was unhappy with the rate of the SVR hed be able to apply for a new 
interest rate product  with his lender or remortgage  elsewhere. Im aware  there isnt an early 
repayment charge  that would prevent him moving his mortgage.  But Mr Ms unable to move  
his mortgage because he has significant  arrears  on his mortgage. Hes also suffering  from ill 
health and his income is now much  lower than it was when he took out this mortgage. There  
are clearly  practical barriers  that would prevent Mr M from being able to move  his mortgage 
to another lender. 
Because Mr M cant go elsewhere, hes complained  that NRAM isnt making new interest  
rate products available to its customers. NRAMs told Mr M that its not an active lender and 
it isnt offering any new interest rates or further  lending to any of its customers. NRAMs 
explained that there are reasons for this. There are competition laws which prevent a 
government-owned lender being in direct competition with other banks. For this reason it 
cant offer new rates.  And, to that extent, its not treating Mr M any differently to any of its 
other customers. 
Its common for borrowers to take a fixed or tracker rate product  and then, at or shortly 
before its expiry, take another  rate rather than revert to their lenders  SVR.  Sometimes they 
may take out a new product with their existing  lender, or sometimes  its with another  lender. 
Ive looked carefully  at Mr Ms mortgage  agreement. Theres  nothing in Mr Ms mortgage 
agreement that says hes entitled  to a new rate  and thats also true of most other  lenders 
mortgage agreements  too. Theres also nothing in the regulators rules that requires NRAM 
to offer new interest  rates.  
Through no fault of his own, Mr M has ended up with a closed book lender, owned  by the 
government, that doesnt  offer new rates. NRAM is his lender, and legitimately  so. Its unable 
to offer new interest  rates  to any customers,  including Mr M. While I appreciate Mr Ms 
frustration, I dont uphold  this part of his complaint.
Ref: DRN67887773is the mortgage interest being charged to Mr Ms mortgage unfairly high? 
Ive looked at the rate of interest that has been applied to Mr Ms mortgage since  the start of 
his mortgage.  
Mr M took out the borrowing  in 2007  on a 3 year fixed rate of 6.79% until 1 October 2010. By 
2009 Mr Ms mortgage had fallen into arrears.  NRAM  agreed a concession  for 12 months at 
a lower fixed rate of 3% to help Mr M get back on track with his mortgage payments. This 
arrangement expired  in 2010.  Mr M then had one month left of his 3 year fixed rate of 6.79%.
Since October 2010 Mr M has been either on NRAMs SVR, or its loyalty discounted rate 
(LDR). NRAMs LDR has tended to track  NRAMs SVR at a discount of 0.25%. This has 
meant Mr Ms mortgage has been on interest  rates ranging between  4.29% and 4.79% over 
the last nine years. 
Mr Ms pointed  out that NRAMs  SVR hasnt tracked  Bank of England base rate. The margin, 
of differential,  between  Bank of England base rate and NRAMs SVR has not remained the 
same. In particular, as Bank of England  base  rates  fell to record low levels, NRAMs SVR 
didnt fall at the same  rate. Ive looked at the mortgage documentation  to see whether  
Northern Rock or NRAM ever said that it would. 
There arent any guarantees  or references in the mortgage documentation that say the SVR 
or LDR will track Bank of England base rate. In Clause 7.1 of Northern Rocks General 
Conditions (2005), it says NRAM  can reduce  the SVR at any time. But it doesnt make  a 
commitment to do so if prevailing interest  rates fall or that the SVR must  track Bank of 
England base rate. Clause 7.2 lists a number of reasons  why the lender  may choose to 
increase SVR. The reasons given include a general  trend to increase  interest  rates on 
mortgages generally or mortgages similar to yours,  for good  commercial reasons and to 
maintain a prudent level of profitability. But, again  there is no commitment to track Bank  of 
England base rates.
Ive also thought about the level of interest thats been applied  to Mr Ms mortgage.  As Ive 
said above Mr M has paid between 5.29% and 4.79% since  his three year fixed rate expired. 
I dont think this interest rate is out of line, or unreasonably higher, than other lenders  SVRs.  
I appreciate that there are practical barriers that prevent Mr M being able to move his 
mortgage elsewhere, but I dont think these are caused by events that could have been 
foreseen when  the contract was entered into by either the lender or Mr M. Overall, I dont 
think NRAM has acted unfairly  in the level of its SVR or the interest it has applied  to Mr Ms 
mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Emma Peters
Ref: DRN67887774ombudsman
Ref: DRN6788777