K820x#14Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) has declined a claim he made for 
damage to his roof and living room ceiling  under  his home insurance  policy.
Background
In October  2018 Mr S noticed  a crack  had appeared in the living  room  ceiling at his home.
And then when entering the loft he became aware of some  damage there too. So, he 
contacted some contractors who went up into the loft and noticed some problems with the 
roof timbers.  So, Mr S contacted Ageas in order to make  a claim. He felt the damage to the 
roof timbers  and the ceiling was as a result of a storm.
Ageas appointed an expert to attend the property  and review the damage. This expert noted 
the timber roof trusses were badly bowed,  some had split, and the roof tiles were sagging.
They felt a structural engineer should  be appointed  to look at the safety of the roof. So,
Ageas appointed another expert with a view to getting a structural engineer  to attend. This 
expert didnt think a structural engineer was needed to determine whether the claim was 
covered or not. It sent another surveyor out, who completed a second report. In this report it 
noted the damage to the property wasnt due to an insured peril. Instead it said the trussed 
roof wasnt  sufficient to support the concrete tiling. Given this, Ageas declined Mr S claim.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He felt the damage to his roof, and the ceiling, was as a result 
of an insured peril  a storm. So, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that for
Ageas to cover the loss the damage must be shown to be caused  by an insured  peril in the 
policy. And based on the information provided he said the loss wasnt caused by one of 
those perils. Our investigator  said the reported damage wasnt consistent with what he would  
expect to see from a storm. And he noted  the reports on the damage suggested a problem 
with faulty workmanship  or poor design  to the roof, which was excluded under Mr S policy.
Mr S didnt agree. He highlighted that the roof had been standing  in excess  of 40 years, and 
he explained  there hadnt been any problems with the roof before this incident. Mr S felt the 
damage was caused by an insured  peril  a storm. And he highlighted that his mortgage 
lender wouldnt  have offered borrowing to him if the property had an element of poor 
workmanship or design.
Because Mr S didnt  agree  this complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional  decision  to Mr S and Ageas on 21 August 2019. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend on 
upholding this complaint. Ive explained  why below.
Ive looked at Mr S insurance documents, to see what cover his policy  provides him with. On 
doing so, I can see Mr S is covered for damage to his property, as long as the damage is 
caused by one of the insured perils listed within it. So, Im aware that for Mr S claim to be 
covered the damage needs  to fall under one of these perils.  If it doesnt  then it isnt 
covered.
Ref: DRN62768062Ageas has said the damage to Mr S home  doesnt fall within  an insured peril listed  within  the 
policy. But Mr S feels  the damage  was caused by a storm.  So, Ive considered  whether
Ageas has acted reasonably in this decision. And I think it has.
When looking at complaints about  storm damage  we consider the following three  questions;
Has it been  proven,  on balance, that there were storm conditions  on or around  the 
date the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent  with storm damage?
Were the prevailing weather conditions the dominant or main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of the above  questions  is yes the claim would  be covered. But if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no the claim  wouldnt be successful. So, Ive 
thought about these  questions when coming to my decision.
Has it been proven, on balance, that there were storm conditions  on or around  the date the 
problem occurred?
Mr S policy doesnt define what it means by the word  storm. So, Ive thought about what this 
service would consider  as a storm. This service thinks a storm is normally a period of bad 
weather with very high winds, and generally some accompanying rain or snow. This service 
does also consider heavy rain alone to a storm, provided this rain is severe.
Ive had a look at the independent weather records from around the time of Mr S discovered 
this loss. Taking into account the weather records at the time Im aware  there were no 
instances of heavy wind that would  be severe enough to be considered  storm conditions.
But, there was an incident  of very heavy rain. So, Im satisfied  there was a wet storm  but 
not one with high winds. So, the answer  to this question  is yes.
Is the nature of the damage consistent  with storm damage?
Our investigator noted the nature of the damage in this case wasnt consistent with what 
they would  expect to see from storm damage. And based on the photos and expert reports  
provided I agree. So Im satisfied the answer to the second of the questions  listed  above  is 
no. And therefore Ageas has acted fairly in noting this claim isnt covered  by the storm peril 
contained in Mr S policy.
In cases of storm damage Id expect  to see some evidence of damage caused by conditions 
such as high winds and heavy rain. Often this would mean damage to the external  part of 
the roof, such as displaced tiles, or water damage  within the roof. But, the information 
provided by both experts doesnt show this to be the case. Neither  report from the surveyors  
who attended the property indicates any damage that is likely to have been caused  by a one 
off event of storm. And Mr S hasnt provided any firm evidence  to show this was the case  
either.
Ref: DRN62768063The reports  provided  by both surveyors explain that the timber  roof trusses have bowed, 
warped and split, and this has caused  the tiled roof to sag. The report  provided by the 
second surveyor noted there was no evidence of external damage  to the roof covering  this 
was all in place. Photos  have  been provided by both surveyors to support this information. 
There werent any winds high enough to be considered of storm strength surrounding the 
time of the loss. Given there isnt any evidence of an external force  such  as a storm 
intervening to cause  the damage  to these  trusses I think Ageas acted fairly in saying the 
claim wasnt covered under Mr S policy.
It hasnt been shown that the damage  to Mr S property  has been caused  by any other 
peril listed within this policy.  And Mr S doesnt  have the benefit of extended accidental  
damage cover. So, Im satisfied Ageas  has acted  fairly in saying Mr S loss isnt something 
thats covered  at this stage. Given, this Im not requiring it to do anything more.
M S policy does exclude damage caused by faulty  workmanship,  or poor design. I know the 
report from the second surveyor Ageas appointed  suggests this is the case,  and Mr S 
disputes how true this is given the length  of time the roof has been in place.  However, Im 
satisfied this point  doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. It first has to be shown the 
claim falls under one of the insured perils the policy covers. And as this hasnt been shown, 
no exclusions would apply.
As above, both parties were sent my provisional decision. Neither party has provided any 
further comments, or any new evidence on the matter.
My findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further  information  to alter the findings noted in my 
provisional decision. Or, to alter what I think is fair and reasonable in light of those findings. 
So, my final decision remains the same as noted in my provisional  decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Ageas Insurance  
Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6276806