K821x#15complaint
Mr Z is unhappy  about the delays he encountered and that his mobile phone claim was 
turned down by Assurant  General Insurance Limited. The policy was provided under his 
mobile phone insurance  cover through his bank account.
background
Mr Z made a claim for his mobile  phone and was asked to produce a proof of usage  
document from his mobile phone network  provider. There was some  debate  around  this 
issue but Mr Z did get proof of usage  and Assurant then declined his claim. It said the 
document giving  the proof had been edited and was fraudulent. Unhappy with this Mr Z 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Assurant hadnt shown that Mr Z had acted 
fraudulently. Our investigator said the evidence Assurant  had relied on wasnt persuasive. 
She felt the details  from Assurants investigation  werent conclusive. She said the fraud 
accusation was unfair. She confirmed that Assurant  should remove any record  of Mr Z 
committing a fraud  from its own and any external database records.  She also felt the claim 
couldve been dealt  with more efficiently and that it needed to be reconsidered. She 
accepted that Mr Z had suffered  distress and inconvenience due to the accusations  and the 
delays. Our investigator  said Assurant  should pay Mr Z £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Assurant agreed that the claim should be reassessed but didnt agree to the £150  payment. 
It asked for the complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Assurant work  in a very time sensitive environment  when dealing with 
claims regarding mobile  phones.  But in this case it does seem  that the balance  between 
conducting a thorough  investigation and getting  the right answer  wasnt there. Our 
investigator rightly pointed out that this service  would need to see persuasive evidence  to 
agree with Assurant  that it didnt need to pay the claim. But thats  not the case here. The 
evidence was extremely limited and now by Assurants own admission the mobile phone  
network provider has confirmed the documentation around proof of usage  is valid.
So I think Mr Z didnt do anything dishonest  or fraudulent.  He hadnt edited the proof  of 
usage and it was Assurant and/or the mobile phone network provider that made  a mistake. 
Therefore, Assurant has acted unreasonably  and unfairly in declining  the claim and it should  
reconsider it.
Whenever further  investigation takes  place  on a claim this inevitably  causes  a delay. But 
when it turns out that the delay was unnecessary and the claim shouldve  been dealt with 
this does cause  extra inconvenience and distress  for a customer. In this case Mr Z was in 
regular contact with Assurant trying to get the matter resolved and from the records  Ive seen 
of the conversations  it was extremely frustrating. In view of the unfair accusation and the 
delays I think the £150 compensation for Mr Zs distress and inconvenience  is reasonable.  
Ref: DRN68721952my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
reconsider the claim in line with remaining policy terms and conditions;
remove any internal  or external database records  wrongly  noting  fraud  about  this claim;
pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Assurant General Insurance Limited must  pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr Z accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6872195