K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should take responsibility  for him 
becoming the victim of a scam and that it should  refund him the money  that he lost. 
background
On the evening of 18 January 2019  Mr B received a phone call from someone claiming  to be 
from Barclays fraud team. Mr B was told that his current account was under threat  and that 
to combat this he needed to transfer his funds to an alternative new account. Mr B carried 
out the transfer for £950 as instructed. Mr B started  to doubt the call when he was unable to 
see an account that the funds had been transferred to and when the person on the phone 
also asked him to transfer money  from a savings  account. Upon being questioned, the 
person on the phone abruptly ended  the call. Mr B went  to his local branch the following day 
to report what had happened. 
Barclays contacted  the beneficiary bank on 19 January 2019 to try and recover  Mr Bs funds. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to advise that no funds remained. Barclays  
informed Mr B that, as he authorised the payment and Barclays  was following  his 
instructions, it hadnt made an error in making the payment and so wouldnt be refunding it. 
Mr B then referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Barclays should have done more  to identify the payment  as 
potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. And he felt that Barclays  had done enough to try 
and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators 
assessment and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators' rules, guidance  and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And Ive 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).   
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6).
Ref: DRN63886762And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr B when he transferred £950, or whether it should have done  more than it did. But I 
dont think the payment  was particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say Barclays  ought 
to have had concerns that Mr B was being  scammed. I dont think  it was sufficiently 
suspicious to conclude  Barclays  ought  to have identified that it may be potentially fraudulent. 
The scammers had access to number cloning technology, which masks the real number that 
they are calling from. Thats why Mr B thought  he was being called from a genuine Barclays  
number. But I cant hold Barclays  responsible for that, and Barclays wouldnt have known at 
the time that a phone call was taking place.
Mr B contacted Barclays on 19 January 2019  to inform it that he had been the victim of a 
scam. Barclays  raised a scam complaint and contacted the beneficiary  bank  on the same 
day to request a return of the funds. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank explained that no 
funds remained,  as the money had been removed from the receiving account straight away.  
Any further investigations into what happened  to the money  after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Barclays and it wouldnt  have unrestricted access to that 
information. 
Its extremely unfortunate that Mr B has lost money.  I understand that the whole experience  
will have been hugely upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I cant fairly say that 
Barclays should have  done more to prevent  his loss. I cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr 
B having fallen  victim  to a scam and I think that Barclays took appropriate steps to help him 
once it knew what had happened.  So it would not be fair to ask Barclays to compensate  Mr 
B for his loss.
Ref: DRN63886763my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6388676