K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of a claim he made under 
his buildings insurance policy. 
background
In October  2018, Mr S property was burgled.  He says his garden fence was damaged, the 
garage was broken into and tools were stolen. The thieves also smashed Mr S patio doors  
to try and get into the house,  but he was able to scare  them away. A few days  later,  Mr S 
bike was stolen from his home.
Mr S was unhappy Ageas hadnt  arranged  for his home to be boarded  up. Ageas said it 
would have paid for these  works;  however Mr S needed to instruct a local tradesman  to carry 
them out and claim the cost back  from Ageas.  
Ageas considered Mr S claim and sent a cheque for £260. It says this covered the cost of 
Mr S tools  and repairs to his fence based  on the evidence hed given them. It didnt  cover  
the cost of the bike because it was a separate claim. Its asked Mr S to provide some 
documentation so it can start to consider  this claim.
In respect of the damage to the patio door, Ageas said it considered  the quotes Mr S 
provided to replace the patio door. Its supplier said it could provide a like-for-like 
replacement of Mr S door for £1,657.16. This was almost £2,000 lower than the quotes Mr S 
had provided. 
In light of this, Ageas  said it could either  cover  the cost of the new door from its supplier, or it 
would offer Mr S a cash  settlement  of £1,657.16 which he could put towards a new door of 
his choice. It said by doing making these offers, it would be putting Mr S back  in the position 
he would  have been in before the burglary.  
Mr S isnt happy with the contractor Ageas has found to replace the door; he says they have 
a number of bad reviews  online and hed prefer to use a local contractor to him. Mr S doesnt 
feel that Ageas  offer will put him back in the position  he would have been in before  the 
burglary.
Our investigator looked into Mr S complaint about  Ageas.  She said she thought Ageas 
response to Mr S claim  was fair and reasonable, and in line with what  it was expected  to do 
under his policy terms. Mr S didnt  agree  with this, so the matter has been  passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr S that Ive carefully considered  everything hes told us. However, having 
done so, Ive reached the same conclusions  as the investigator.  Ill explain why.
In terms of the claim for the bike, this was stolen during a second and separate incident to 
the other claim.  Ageas  said they are willing to process this claim but Mr S hadnt provided a 
receipt or some form of proof  of purchase so Ageas  could assess  the claim.  I think what  
Ref: DRN66279092theyve asked for is reasonable, and in line with what Id expect to see asked for in similar 
claims. If Mr S provides this information  to Ageas, they should consider his claim for the bike 
in line with his policy terms and conditions.
Ill move  on now to the main part of Mr S complaint  namely the first claim and his 
unhappiness with the handling of the issue around replacing the patio door. 
In terms of boarding  up the property, I think Ageas has acted  reasonably here. It initially 
offered to refund costs  incurred  by Mr S to get it boarded up. And in January,  it offered  to 
arrange the boarding up itself. On the basis Mr S declined both offers I dont see what  more I 
could have expected Ageas to do to put things right. I think its acted reasonably in response 
to this part of the claim.
Ageas sent a cheque for the damaged fence and stolen tools.  However, Mr S returned this. 
From what  Ive seen, Ageas paid the correct  amount for this part of the claim. I think it was 
for Mr S to show  why it wasnt the right amount if he felt it was lower than he was entitled to. 
On the basis this information  hasnt  been  provided,  I dont think  Ageas needs to do anything  
more here,  but recommend it sends Mr S another cheque for £260 if it hasnt already made 
this payment.
In terms of the patio  door, Ageas is required to put Mr S back in the position he would have 
been in. Its not required  to provide him with a door that would put him in a better  position  
that he would have been in before  the burglary. And it says thats what  would have  
happened if it had moved forward based  on the quotes for new patio doors  provided  by 
Mr S. 
I think Mr S has been offered the opportunity to provide evidence to Ageas for consideration 
if he thinks the door he identified is of equal quality to what hes got now.  But I cant see hes 
done so, instead hes sent the quotations  he was provided with and Ageas has relied  on 
these. 
The terms of Mr S policy say:
we will decide whether to settle  your claim by:
rebuilding;
repairing;
replacing; or 
by making a payment in respect  of the damaged  part of the buildings
Ageas has given Mr S a choice  he can either have a replacement door fitted by their 
contractors or he can have a cash settlement for the equivalent value, which  he can put 
towards the door of his choosing. Im satisfied Ageas response here is reasonable and in 
line with what Id expect  it to do under the terms and conditions  of the policy.  And I think  its 
now for Mr S to decide  if he wants to accept either the replacement doors or put the cash  
settlement towards  a more expensive door of his choosing. 
Ref: DRN66279093my final decision
I realise my decision will be a disappointment  to Mr S, but I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6627909