K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that American  Express  Services  Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt 
inappropriately with his claim  under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (Section 
75).
background
Mr M made a purchase using his credit card supplied by AESEL. He had a dispute with the 
seller. Mr M was aware  that the general  effect  of Section 75 is that if he has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  against  the supplier he can also bring  that claim 
against AESEL  provided certain conditions are met. He was getting the run around from the 
seller. On this basis he contacted AESEL to make a claim  under Section 75. It 
misunderstood what he wanted gave him incorrect information, delayed matters  and failed to 
provide the level of customer service that he was entitled to expect.
Eventually, after Mr M had to done most of the running, it told us it offered and paid him 
£100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused him due to its mistakes. 
Mr M didnt  agree this went  far enough  and came to this service.  He wanted us to look at this 
matter and suggested £500  would  be a more appropriate award.
Our adjudicator could  see that things had gone wrong and that AESEL had not acted as it 
should have done. That said, the underlying  claim had now been settled and she thought  the 
£100 the business had already paid for distress  and inconvenience was appropriate. In the 
circumstances, she did not think she had any proper basis to ask it to do anything  more.
It seems  AESEL  agreed with her assessment. Mr M didnt. In summary, he suggested  wed 
not really understood the level of distress AESEL had caused him. He also suggested that 
AESEL had legal obligations to him which it didnt fulfil. He explained that all of this was 
made worse because he was in need at the time as the supplier was behaving  
inappropriately. It had more than once given him inaccurate information  about his claim. He 
didnt agree that the fact that his dispute with the supplier had been settled was relevant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  It is clear to see that Mr M is dissatisfied 
with AESEL. However, that said, I dont agree that AESEL should do more than it has 
already done.  Please let me explain why Ive come  to this conclusion.
Mr M has laid a degree of emphasis on AESELs legal obligations to him under Section 75. 
Almost as if he is expecting that I will be able to enforce his rights  in the manner of a court 
which I dont have  the power  to do. I think though it might be helpful for me to set out my role 
here. In considering  a complaint about  a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Neither  am I determining  if 
AESEL breached its legal obligations to him. Rather,  in deciding whats  a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve Mr Ms complaint, Ive taken Section 75 into account.  But that 
doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the same outcome  as, for example, a court might reach if 
Mr M pursued a claim for breach of contract  or misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN65786902The underlying claim has now been  settled, albeit  it seems  that is mostly due to the efforts 
made by Mr M. I think this point is relevant  as after all getting  the claim settled was his main 
objective and what he wanted AESELs help with.  
As I have already  mentioned  it is clear that Mr M is disappointed  and upset. He expected  
AESEL to assist him in what  he sees as his time of need. He suggests its actions amounted  
to a refusal to help him. I dont  see it that way. AESEL did provide assistance although I can 
see it took several months to get to the bottom  of things. It couldve been more helpful  and it 
accepts it should  have got to grips sooner. Once  it acknowledged this it made offers  to 
compensate him for distress and inconvenience.  I find that it has already offered an 
appropriate award taking all of this into account. 
For all of these reasons, I dont agree that AESEL behaved in such  a manner that I can fairly 
and reasonably instruct it to take any further  action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6578690