K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (the business)  made an error in 2008 on her life 
policy, by increasing  her level of cover  but not her late husbands (Mr Ts) cover.  
She says this is nonsensical as Mr T was the main earner not her, and the information  
provided about this wasnt  clear.   She  is also unhappy about the overall  service  the business  
provided in processing  her claim,  including erroneously telling her that she was going to 
receive £215,713  following her claim  which was in fact her cover,  and not her husbands.  
background
Mrs T and Mr T first took out the policy  in 2003, and a review  took place in 2007. In this 
review the Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) element of the policy  was removed, but the 
Critical Illness Cover  (CIC) element remained. 
In June 2008 the cover was reviewed again, Mrs T and Mr T applied for increased  cover.  
Mrs T increased her cover to £215,713  but Mr Ts remained at £172,603.  It was unlikely Mr T 
was going to be able to increase his level of cover given his health issues.  
The business rejected the complaint. In short, it said:
It relied upon the information provided by Mrs T and Mr T in coming  to a decision. It 
also provided them with a copy of the basis upon  which  it made the decision.   
It also asked them to check the information and make sure it was correct and no 
issues were raised.  
Given Mr Ts health issues  he was unlikely to get increased cover and therefore the 
business wasnt wrong to pay Mrs T £172,603 in response to the claim. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
He cant say that the business made an error  in this instance.  
Even if he found the business had made an error, Mr T would still have been 
ineligible to increase his level cover  owing to health grounds.    
Whilst he appreciates Mrs Ts comments about  the wording of the documentation, he 
is unable to say that it was unclear.   
Mr T would have  been ineligible to increase his level of cover through  the policys 
Increase Option   which isnt medically  underwritten  because  hed already 
increased his cover  using this option  once.  
The other way Mr T couldve increased  his cover was through  the traditional route  
but given his declaration of high blood pressure and diabetes and the fact this 
wouldve been subject  to underwriting, he wouldnt have  been  eligible to increase his 
level of cover.  
Mr T was unable  satisfy the conditions  set out by the business. 
Its not possible to say with any confidence what Mrs T was (or wasnt)  told by the 
business. If she was told she was going to receive £215,713 it would have been a 
simple error.  
Overall he was unable  to say that Mrs T was paid the incorrect  amount following a 
claim on the policy following the death of Mr T.
Mrs T disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
Ref: DRN67424992As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been referred to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, Im not 
persuaded the business has done anything  wrong by refusing to pay out a higher claim on 
the policy.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Ts strength of feeling  about this matter.   
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs T and the business,  and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Im satisfied that the underwriters were unlikely to have  provided increased cover to Mr T 
given his poor health, despite his application.  On the face of the evidence, and on balance,  
despite what Mrs T says Im unable to say that the documentation provided  was unclear, 
unfair or misleading.  
Mrs Ts husband  potentially had two options by which he could  increase  his level of cover.  
The first was by selecting  the Increase Option   which didnt  involve any underwriting  to 
increase the level of cover with the policy. Im conscious Mr T was ineligible  to do this 
because hed already increased  the level of cover this way once before.
 
The other option was to increase cover  through the traditional route, but this was likely to 
need approval from the underwriters. Because of Mr Ts health changes this application  was 
unlikely to succeed.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely  say that Mrs T was told 
shed receive £215,713  following a claim on Mr Ts policy.  Its possible she was told that this 
was her level of cover  and shed  misunderstood.  
If she was given the wrong information,  it wouldve been an error, but I dont think  the 
business wouldve  done this deliberately. Either way, she wasnt  entitled  to receive £215,713 
following a claim and therefore I cant say that she was paid the wrong  amount. 
Ref: DRN67424993I appreciate Mrs T will be unhappy Ive reached  the same conclusion as the investigator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold  this complaint and give her what  
she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6742499