K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about three payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with 
secured loans in 2003, 2004 and 2006. Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  
mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its seems  that these policies were  sold during  meetings and that Halifax made a 
recommendation to take the PPI. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
On balance, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive considered copies of the paperwork completed for each  sale. 
For the 2003 and 2004 sales,  an X has been typed on the credit  agreement,  next to 
the question Do you want Personal  Loan Repayments Cover? 
As these  sales took place  in meetings and some of Mr Ps other personal details 
have also been  added,  I think that its more likely than not that a discussion took 
place about PPI and the X was added to reflect what Mr P wanted   before he 
signed the overall loan agreement  
For the 2006 sale, a different loan agreement  was used.  But Ive seen a copy  
(unsigned) demands  and needs statement that suggests that a discussion also likely 
took place about PPI and it was added to the account. 
In addition, I've considered that, as I think it was likely made clear in the 2003 and 
2004 sales that Mr P had a choice about  PPI, I think that Mr P would reasonably 
have questioned why PPI was on the 2006  loan agreement if no discussion  had 
taken place or he didnt want PPI. 
Ive also noted  that there are inconsistencies  in Mr Ps testimony. When  he initially 
complained, he complained that he wasnt aware that hed taken PPI. Even if this 
was the case,  Ive seen copies of some  of the paperwork sent to him after each sale.  
For example, Halifax have shown us a policy schedule document that outlines  the 
level of cover that Mr P was taking. I think that Mr P would reasonably have  
questioned why he was receiving such documents if he hadnt been aware that hed 
taken PPI.
But in response to our adjudicators assessment, Mr Ps representative has said 
customer has told us specifically that the lender pressured them  to take the 
insurance - implying that he did have some knowledge of what he was taking. But 
Ref: DRN61243802given the time thats passed since the sale, its not unusual that Mr P may not now 
recall everything clearly. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI policies to Mr P, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances around the time of 
each sale, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, including what  hes said about  not needing PPI 
because he couldve relied  on his friends  and family  to make his repayments.  But although 
they may have wanted to help Mr P, they may not have been in a position to help when 
needed as circumstances can change. So I still think  that the recommendation to take PPI 
were suitable based  on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances  including  his existing 
means. So these  points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything   
Mr P paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr P back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr P now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6124380