K820x#14Complaint
Mr L has complained  that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly turned down a loan application 
to repay  his overdraft  when it changed its pricing  structure in 2017. 
Background
In the summer  of 2017, Lloyds announced it would be changing  its overdraft pricing structure 
in November 2017. It was moving  to a model where it would charge 1p a day for every  £7 
borrowed. Mr L was unhappy his overdrafts  would cost more to use and went to his local 
branch where  he was told he could apply for a loan and use the proceeds to repay  them 
should he not wish to pay the increased  charges. But Lloyds declined Mr Ls application.    
Mr L was dissatisfied  and complained.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ls concerns. She didnt  think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong  or treated Mr L unfairly and so didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr L disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything, Im not upholding  Mr Ls complaint.  Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
It may help for me to start by explaining  that lenders are required not to lend irresponsibly. 
So not only do I think its fair and reasonable for a lender to check whether a loan is 
affordable for a prospective borrower, it is a regulatory requirement for it to do so. And even 
where a loan may on the face of things may appear cheaper, such  as Mr L argues here, the 
lender still needs  to assess the prospective borrowers ability  to repay bearing in mind their 
circumstances and existing commitments, before  lending. 
In this case, Lloyds  affordability checks led it to have concerns about Mr Ls existing 
indebtedness. And this together with the returned  direct debits on the account led Lloyds to 
conclude Mr L couldnt afford the repayments  on a loan and declined application. Im 
satisfied Lloyds did carry out an individual assessment of Mr L loan application as it was 
required to. And given that it had reasonable concerns about Mr Ls ability  to make his 
repayments, I dont  think that Lloyds decision was unfair.
I know that Mr L says that Lloyds  overdraft charges are the reason for his missed direct  
debits. But the first thing  for me to say is that banks are entitled to charge for the use of 
borrowing facilities. Secondly, I dont think its possible to say, with any degree of accuracy,  
what Mr Ls account balances wouldve looked  like and whether he would have had the 
returned direct debits if he hadnt  been  charged  for the use of his overdraft. I say this 
because I think Mr L managed his current accounts  on a day-to-day basis   and his 
spending reflected  his changing circumstances, needs and resources. In other words, Mr Ls 
account balances  at any point in time was shaped by his continued  management of his 
accounts and hundreds  of individual account decisions and transactions.
So while I accept Mr L might have  had more available to spend each month if he didnt  have 
to pay to use his overdraft, its difficult for me to say that the amount of the charges would 
Ref: DRN68310552have remained in the account  had they not been added. I cant say that Mr Ls spending 
wouldnt have in any event covered  this, especially as reasonably  large amounts went out of 
his joint account  almost immediately after similar  credits in. 
In these circumstances, Mr Ls account  management leaves me unable  to say that he 
wouldnt, in any event, have had returned direct debits had it not been for the overdraft 
charges applied. And even then Lloyds might  still have declined  Mr Ls loan application as it 
was concerned about his existing indebtedness. In these circumstances, I dont think that 
Lloyds actions and its overdraft charges unfairly  led to Mr Ls loan application being 
declined.   
That said,  I do think that Lloyds should have done more to help Mr L once it declined his 
loan application.  But even  though  this is the case,  Ive seen that Mr L was able to obtain 
funds from elsewhere to be able to significantly  reduce  what he owed on his overdrafts. This 
suggests Mr L wasnt a potential overdraft prisoner  in other words, he wasnt  locked into 
into accepting the increased charges due to having  an existing balance he was unable  to 
make inroads into - because he accessed funds from elsewhere and significantly reduced 
what he owed. So I dont  think that Lloyds failure to refer Mr L to its customer  support unit 
caused him to lose out here and the £75 it paid in compensation for this matter is fair and 
reasonable bearing in mind the particular circumstances  of Mr Ls case.   
Although Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint, Id like to remind  Lloyds  of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance in light of what Mr L has said about his circumstances should an 
outstanding balance remain on his overdraft at present.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6831055