K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  didnt properly deal with a 
claim he made under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr S made a claim to his insurer, Admiral for repairs to his car following an incident in July 
2018. In October  2018 the approved repairer  completed the repairs. But Mr S was unhappy 
and complained to Admiral the following day. He said there  was further  damage  and a 
number of warning  lights  appeared  on the dashboard relating to the LED lights, brakes, 
heater and media/satnav. 
Admiral instructed an Independent Assessor (IA) to look at Mr Ss car. The IA agreed some 
further repairs and investigation was needed. Mr S took his car to a dealership garage for 
assessment and sent their report to Admiral.
In December 2018 Admiral agreed to cover some  of the repairs.  But it said the media/satnav  
damage hadnt been caused by the approved repairer or the incident   even though the 
dealership garage  said it had been  damaged by the impact.  Admiral paid Mr S £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it had caused him. Admiral agreed  the dealership 
garage could carry  out the agreed repairs  as Mr S didnt want  the approved repairer  to look 
at his car again.
In April 2019 Mr S asked us to look at his complaint. He said his car still hadnt been  properly  
repaired. He wanted Admiral to cover the costs of all the remaining repairs  the dealership  
garage had listed  and compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience  it had caused 
him. He told us he had to extend the lease agreement  under  the car - as the lease company 
wouldnt accept the return of the car while it still required repairs.
In September  2019 our investigator  thought  it was reasonable  to place more weight on the 
report provided by the dealership garage  in December 2018. Their  view was that the 
media/satnav issue was caused by the impact. So he recommended  Admiral cover  the costs  
of these repairs and pay Mr S a further £150  compensation.  
Mr S accepted the investigators recommendations. 
Admiral didnt agree. It said the dealership garage  told the IA in a phone call that Mr S had 
reported concerns  with the satnav/media just before the incident  - when he brought  his car in 
for a service.  So Admiral  believes it was a pre existing fault. 
So the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
When Mr Ss car was returned to him in October 2018, he called  Admiral  the following day to 
report his concerns. The IA who inspected Mr Ss car in November 2018 confirmed the 
following areas of concern  reported  by Mr S:
Ref: DRN699592621. Chips and scratches to the right hand front door.
2. Media system not working.
3. Navigation system networking.
4. Road-sign reader not working.
5. Active  cruise control not working.
6. Brake assist system not working.
7. Warning lamps on dashboard.
The IA confirmed that his inspection was of a visual  nature only.  He reported that all but 
issue one should  be upheld and he recommended the following:
We consider the following  rectification/work is required;
We feel that the electrical system faults  and failures are either  a warranty issue (this 
needs to be investigated by a (franchise name) main dealer) or have occurred after 
the repairer carried-out the in-house  system resets. This also requires a main
dealer reset  as the repairers equipment MAY  not be as sophisticated as the 
(franchise name) main  dealers bespoke equipment.
On 11 December 2018 the franchise dealership reported the following  in relation to the 
damage to the satnav/media:
Investigated and found 5F unit faulty, down to impact
The IA wasnt able to confirm whether damage was caused either by the approved  repairer 
or the incident when he carried out a visual  inspection in November  2018.  Based on his 
recommendation, Mr Ss car arranged for his car to be assessed by the franchised  
dealership garage  and they found  that the damage  to the satnav/media  was caused  by the 
impact. 
Admiral has provided a copy of an email  from the IA which says he discussed  the report with 
the dealership   and that the dealership only agreed  that the cruise control issue was an 
impact related repair. The IA told Admiral that the dealership garage told him that Mr S had 
reported concerns  with the media/satnav just after his car had been  serviced.  This was only 
a few days before the incident.  
However, the additional information Admiral has provided is based on a discussion between 
the IA and the dealership  garage.  It contradicts the findings the dealership set out in its 
report and also contradicts what Mr S has said from the outset. So on balance, I agree with 
the investigators recommendations that  on the back of the IAs recommendation to refer to 
a dealership garage for further investigation  the dealership garages opinion in their report  
carries more weight in this case. 
So I think Admiral should meet  the costs to repair the satnav/media repairs.  
I can see that Admiral has paid some compensation to Mr S for its delay and poor service 
prior to him bringing this complaint to us. In addition to the £150 Admiral  paid him for this 
complaint, I think it should pay Mr S a further  £150.  Hes clearly been put to considerable 
distress and inconvenience in having to contact Admiral, the approved repairer, and a 
dealership garage  over and above  what would  be considered reasonable when having to 
deal with a claim. 
Ref: DRN69959263my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay for the costs  to repair  the 5F unit as set out in the dealership  report  estimate 
dated 11 December  2018.
Pay Mr S a further £150  compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused him in addition  to what its already paid him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6995926