K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B complains, in summary that Santander UK Plc did not do enough to help her recover  
the money she had paid to a binary  options  trading platform  using her Santander VISA debit 
card. 
Background
Mrs B was cold called by a binary  options investment  company (the merchant). She was 
promised a return of £25,000 if she invested  with the merchant. 
On 30 August 2017, Mrs B paid the merchant £200 using her Santander  VISA debit card,  
she doesnt recall providing the merchant with any personal or sensitive  information  for 
instance identification. 
Mrs B asked  the merchant for a refund and the merchant refused and told her she needed to 
invest more money. 
Mrs B contacted Santander so that it could  assist  with recovering her money. Santander 
spoke with Mrs B over the phone  and sent a disclaimer  form for her to complete, along with 
asking for some additional information.  In October 2017, Mrs B returned a disclaimer  to 
Santander outlining the problems she experienced with the merchant. Santander declined  to 
proceed with Mrs Bs chargeback claim. 
One of our investigators upheld the complaint  and suggested that Santander should  return 
the funds in dispute. Santander  disagreed  on the basis that the chargeback scheme is a 
voluntary process,  which meant there was no onus on banks to raise every  chargeback  
request. And that Mrs B had not provided  enough evidence to satisfy the requirements set 
out by VISA.  
The case  was passed to me to make a final decision. 
Santander issued further information explaining  it had written  to Mrs B on two occasions and 
had spoken with her over the phone to try to assist with her claim. It said Mrs Bs verbal 
testimony did not go into enough detail for it to have gathered  the evidence it required to 
process a chargeback. 
I wrote to Santander to explain that Mrs B had a learning difficulty,  which  was why she had 
difficulties explaining the problem to it over the phone. But I felt the signed  disclaimer,  which  
included Mrs Bs hand-written notes, was enough for it to have understood the nature of the 
problem and the chargeback dispute  conditions available  to it. I felt a chargeback should 
have been attempted  and invited Santander to provide any further evidence  it held about the 
merchant and whether  it would have  likely defended the claim. Santander did not provide 
any further comment. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, and/or  contradictory  as some  of it is here  I reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities; that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened  in light of the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ref: DRN63535472To begin with, there is no dispute that Mrs B agreed to make the payment to the merchant. 
Mrs B explains  that she was persuaded to deposit the money with the merchant because of 
promises of early and large profits  she quickly became suspicious when those profits didnt 
materialise, and she was asked to pay more money  in order  to generate  and access them.  
Our investigator looked into the merchants background and determined,  on balance, that it 
was operating as a scam  binary options  trading platform.  There  was an FCA warning 
issued about the merchant  albeit almost  one year after the scam was reported to 
Santander. 
It is not disputed  that VISA expanded its rules around binary/investment trading in October 
2017. VISA  introduced a reason code to deal with matters  involving binary options  
merchants, often unlicensed, preventing  cardholders from withdrawing their available 
balances. 
There appears to have  been more than one disclaimer received by Santander from Mrs B. 
But we only have information surrounding  the more recent disclaimer.  Ive seen  that on 21 
October 2017,  Santander  wrote  to Mrs B acknowledging the disclaimer  it had received and 
asked for some further information and specifically:
Date goods/service were due to be received
Date the service was cancelled
Details of how Mrs B tried to resolve  the matter with the merchant (requesting  copies 
of any correspondence)
Any additional information Mrs B had that she felt may be of use
Mrs B followed up with a disclaimer dated  26 October 2017, along with hand-written notes 
explaining the date of her payment, what the merchant  had promised, her telephone 
conversation with the merchant declining her refund, that the merchant was unregulated - 
based outside the UK and that reviews stated  it was a scam.  Santander did not explain the 
reasons why it had declined to proceed  with a chargeback when  it wrote  to Mrs B on 3 
November 2017.  But it has retrospectively explained  that Mrs B did not satisfy the evidence 
required for it to process a chargeback. 
I recognise the chargeback scheme  is a voluntary  one and Santander cant  be expected  to 
process every chargeback request  brought to it. So, I wouldnt expect Santander  to process 
a chargeback claim where no rights exist.
 
But Im satisfied  Mrs B put her claim to Santander as best as she could. Im satisfied rights  
did exist for chargebacks  to be processed in this case. And whilst Mrs B didnt provide the 
specific evidence requirements of the dispute condition  on reflection  she broadly gave 
Santander the information it had asked of her. 
Given that Mrs B explained her interaction with the merchant was over the phone,  I dont 
think she would have been  able to satisfy  the evidential requirements of the appropriate  
dispute condition, even  if Santander had requested it. But that does not change  that I think  it 
would have been fair and reasonable for Santander to have attempted a chargeback  to 
assist her  given  that she expressed she was scammed.  And I think the evidential  
requirements would  have only become relevant if Santander were to have relied on the card 
scheme to make a final decision  at its arbitration stage. 
Ref: DRN63535473Santander has not provided any persuasive evidence  that would suggest the merchant 
would have likely defended the claim, so Im unable  to agree with its reasons  for not 
assisting Mrs B further than it did.  
I also have to consider  that Mrs B does not recall sharing  her personal  information with the 
merchant. As the merchant does  not appear  to have been equipped to defend the claim, its 
likely it wouldnt  have. 
As there was a suitable dispute condition for Mrs Bs claim and some  prospect of success  - I 
think Santander ought to have assisted  Mrs B with processing a chargeback  once it received 
her signed  disclaimer. Because  it chose not to, it has significantly disadvantaged  Mrs Bs 
opportunity to recover her funds.  
My final decision
For the reasons  I have explained,  my Final Decision is that I uphold this complaint.  To settle 
it, Santander UK Plc should:
1.Pay to Mrs B the total sum she paid to the merchant from her Santander  account in 
August 2017 - £200.
2.Pay interest  to Mrs B on the above sum, at an annual rate of 8% simple,  from the date it 
received her signed disclaimer until date of settlement.
If Santander UK Plc considers it is required to deduct tax from the interest element of my 
award it should provide  Mrs B with an appropriate tax deduction  certificate  so that she may 
seek to reclaim the tax if she considers she is entitled  to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2021.
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6353547