K821x#15complaint
Mr L, represented by a claims management  company  (CMC), complains that CashEuroNet  
UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks  before lending 
to him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
background
Mr L was provided with eleven  loans from QuickQuid between August  2012  and July 2017.
Loan type amount date repaid
1 payday £200 17 Aug 2012 14 Sep 2012
2 payday £200 30 Sep 2012 9 Nov 2012
3 payday £150 22 Nov 2012 21 Dec 2012
4 payday £400 9 Jan 2013 8 Mar 2013
5 Flex credit 22 Jun 2013 6 Dec 2014
6 payday £150 11 Jan 2015 13 Feb 2015
7 payday £150 18 Feb 2015 18 Mar 2015
8 payday £500 1 Sep 2016 11 Nov 2016
9 payday £150 24 Feb 2017 19 Apr 2017
10 payday £150 21 Apr 2017 19 Jun 2017
11 payday £400 4 Jul 2017 18 Aug 2017
Mr L says that QuickQuid didnt do enough to checks to see if he could afford to repay the 
loans and that the loans  trapped  him in a spiral of debt. He says that QuickQuid  should  have 
realised from the amount  of times he borrowed  that his debt problems were getting worse  
and that it shouldnt have continued  to lend to him.
QuickQuid says that it carried out sufficient checks before the loans were  provided and that 
based on the information gathered the loans were affordable. It says Mr L had gaps between 
loans and that the amounts borrowed fluctuated.
Our adjudicator noted that there was a significant  gap between  when loan seven  was repaid 
and loan eight  taken out. Because  of this he thought that the loans fell into two lending  
chains. The first lending  chain contained  loans  one to seven and the second lending  chain 
contained loans  eight to eleven. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think hed seen enough evidence to say that the provision of loans  one 
to four and loans  eight and nine was unfair.  However he thought  loans five to seven and 
loans ten and eleven shouldnt have been  provided.
QuickQuid didnt accept  our adjudicators view. It said there was a break of 106 days  before 
loan five was provided and that Mr L hadnt experienced  issues repaying his previous loans. 
It didnt accept Mr Ls borrowing showed he was persistently reliant on short term loans. It 
said that following  the repayment  of Mr Ls flex credit loan there was a break  of 36 days and 
that the amount borrowed in loans six and seven was only £150. 
In regard to loan eleven it said this was repayable over two periods and that the repayment 
was for around 21% of Mr Ls disposable  income.
Ref: DRN60744602Because a resolution wasnt reached this case has been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The early  loans in this case were provided  before CONC.  At that time the relevant  guidance  
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make  a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower  can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner.  This refers to issues such as being able to the make  the repayments  
without undue difficulties  throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
Ref: DRN60744603security or assets. It then further sets out that without  undue difficulty  means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
I agree  with our adjudicators assessment that the loans should be separated  into two 
lending chains. There was an extended  break between  the repayment  of loan seven and 
loan eight being provided and so I find that loans  one to seven form the first lending  chain 
and loans eight  to eleven the second.  I note comments about other breaks  in the lending  but 
I dont find that these should  have  been  considered sufficient for QuickQuid to conclude  that 
Mr Ls circumstances had changed. 
In regard to the first four loans, I agree with our adjudicator that there  is insufficient  evidence 
to say that these  loans  were unaffordable.
By the time the fifth loan was provided,  I think Mr Ls overall pattern of borrowing suggested 
he had become persistently reliant  on short-term  loans. I understand that the fifth loan was 
not a payday loan but instead  a flexible credit loan, however Mr L had taken five loans in ten 
months, and the amounts borrowed were in general  increasing. Because of this, I think  
QuickQuid should  have realised at this time that lending to Mr L wasnt sustainable. 
Mr L then borrowed twice  further in close succession further supporting the suggestion that 
he was dependent on short term credit. Overall I think that loans  five to seven in the first 
lending chain shouldnt  have been provided.
In regard to loans eight and nine I think that sufficient checks were carried  out before these 
loans were provided. Loan  eight was for £500  with a highest repayment  amount of over 
£600. While  this was a significant amount compared to Mr Ls income given this was the first 
loan in the lending chain  and the information gathered suggested the loan was affordable  I 
dont find I have enough to say that QuickQuid was wrong  to provide this loan. 
Loan nine was for a lower amount and as this was only the second loan in the lending chain 
and the information suggested  it was affordable I again dont I have enough  to say 
QuickQuid did anything  wrong by providing this loan. 
By the time Mr L took out loan ten he had taken out three loans in less than eight months. 
Given his previous history  of borrowing and the pattern  of borrowing that was emerging I 
think QuickQuid should have been concerned that Mr L was again becoming dependent  on 
short term borrowing. In my view,  the pattern of lending itself shows that the loans from here 
were unsustainable  (and I note that Mr L took out a much larger loan less than a month after 
repaying loan ten). Because of this I dont  think loans ten or eleven should  have  been  
provided.
Ref: DRN60744604my final decision
My final decision is that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr L paid on loans five to seven and loans ten 
and eleven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan five means  any information  recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  loans five to seven and loans ten and eleven should 
be removed from Mr Ls credit  file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6074460