K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handled 
a claim Mrs C made on their travel insurance policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs C bought  a travel insurance  policy underwritten  by URV to cover a trip to Turkey.
They went  to Turkey  in 2018. Mrs C fell ill and suffered  a stroke  in June 2018. She was 
transported to a private hospital  in an ambulance.  Mrs C stayed in hospital for around three 
weeks and then flew back to the UK in a wheelchair.  The treating doctor said Mrs C should 
be repatriated by stretcher but instead, she flew back  on a wheelchair.  On her return to the 
UK, Mrs C stayed  in hospital  for a further  three  months. 
At the time of suffering from a stroke, Mrs C was 77 years old and was travelling with Mr C. 
Her nephew  was in Turkey at the time and called URV to report the claim. He is also 
representing Mrs C in this complaint. For ease of reading, I will refer to all submissions by 
the representative as though they are from Mrs C. 
Mrs C made  a claim after which  URV  requested her medical records.  Mrs C complained  to 
URV as it hadnt obtained the medical records and hadnt paid the hospital  bill. She was 
concerned about  being  able to leave or re-enter Turkey  as the hospital had taken a copy of 
her passport.
URV responded to the complaint and offered  £250  compensation.  It agreed it hadnt 
communicated well enough  with Mrs C. Unhappy with the response, Mrs C referred her 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that URV had delayed in contacting  the 
hospital and hadnt been proactive in trying to move  the matter forward. He recommended 
that URV  pay the claim in full and also pay any costs paid by Mrs C plus 8% interest. In 
addition, he recommended that URV pay £1,000 compensation  which  URV agreed  to do. 
URV said it had already  paid £250 but Mrs C says she hasnt received this and the account 
details used by URV  are incorrect. URV  says it used the account  details provided by Mrs C 
in her claim  form.  It also said it has been  in contact  with the hospital but hasnt received a 
response. And it agreed  to negotiate  and settle the claim within  28 days.
Mrs C is concerned that if she needs  to use the hospital again, shell  be refused. And is 
worried that she may be chased  for the bill by debt collectors. 
And so the case has been passed  to me to decide.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2020.  Ill repeat my provisional  findings here:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Mrs Cs complaint  
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN67823082As a matter  of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mrs C against losses 
covered by the policy as and when the amount of her loss (here  the amount of Mrs Cs 
liability to the healthcare  provider) has been  ascertained. That may be by agreement, by 
court judgment or by arbitration. So URV  has a commercial  interest  in being able to take 
over the defence and settlement of such claims in Mrs Cs name.  
URVs policy terms say it can:
take over and deal with in your name  the defence/settlement of any claim made  
under the policy
In effect, this means URV  has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  defending  or 
settling it  in the name of Mrs C. But that isnt an unqualified right. 
Legally, in situations where  URVs interests  conflict with Mrs Cs, URV has a responsibility to 
act in good faith when  it takes  over the defence/settlement of a claim  having regard to 
Mrs Cs interests  as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt entitled  to act arbitrarily  
in the way it goes about  declining to pay the full amount of the invoice and contesting the 
outstanding amount. In deciding whether  and how  to defend  possible legal action against 
Mrs C, URV  is required to base its decisions on the circumstances  of Mrs Cs individual 
case. 
The applicable  regulations lead to a similar conclusion. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and its 
customers and between  a customer and another client.  
The relevant  regulations  also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress;
(3)not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and 
(4)settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide,  published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities  of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses (the Principles)  and the detailed rules 
mean for providers and distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that firms 
should consider  the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life-
cycle of the service  being provided.  
Ive also taken into account what I consider to have been good industry practice  at the time 
of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance  and their agents   to engage 
diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over medical  bills by actively 
Ref: DRN67823083seeking a compromise  or adjudication of their bills. That includes actively engaging  in 
negotiation. 
Ill now explain what this means for Mrs Cs complaint. 
URV has accepted  responsibility for the sums properly  due under  the invoices and hasnt 
said any of the procedures which are itemised on the invoices shouldnt  have been charged 
for  or shouldnt  be paid at all. It has simply said that the amounts charged are 
unreasonably excessive. Its referred  to and relied  on the cost rates published by the Turkish 
Ministry of Health. And has offered to pay an amount which it considers to be reasonable. 
During the course of our investigation, URV  agreed to attempt negotiation with the Turkish 
hospital but said it didnt receive a response. Ive seen two emails, dated May and June 
2020 in which URV  has asked  the hospital for bank details to make payment. And Ive seen  
two notification of settlement  letters  offering 18,699.65 and 6,233.22 Turkish liras. The total 
bill is shown  as 77,492.67 Turkish Liras. I havent  seen any further attempts, such as a 
phone call, to contact the hospital. The higher suggested payment  amounts to approximately 
25% of the outstanding amount. I dont see any justification for offering such a small amount.
Im not satisfied that the invoice is grossly  excessive or out of line with what  might be 
charged. And Im not satisfied that URV has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled 
Mrs Cs claim.
URV failed to provide support and assistance when Mrs C needed repatriation and 
didnt organise  a stretcher repatriation as recommended
It said it was waiting  to validate  the claim but didnt do enough to chase and obtain 
medical records from Mrs Cs GP in the UK
It didnt contact the hospital for a medical report and Mrs Cs nephew did all the 
chasing and provided  a copy of the report himself
Mrs C had suffered a stroke and was taken  to a private hospital via ambulance  in an 
emergency situation. URV  asked the hospital  whether she could be moved  to a 
public/state facility but the hospital said this wasnt safe
URV didnt provide  any reassurances that it would pay the bill and Ive seen no 
contact between URV and the hospital  at the time  which I would  expect to see
When Mrs C returned to the UK and submitted her claim, Ive seen  no evidence that 
URV dealt with the matter promptly 
I dont think URV  gave Mrs C reassurances about her ability to travel back to Turkey  
or to attend that hospital again 
The policy allows  URV to take over, and deal with the defence/settlement of any claim under 
the policy in Mrs Cs name. But I expect it to do so in a fair and reasonable way  and I must 
have regard to the law, the relevant industry rules  and regulations, and good  practice.  URV  
has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly  and to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, paying  due regard to Mrs Cs interests and treating her fairly.  I dont think its done 
that in this case.
URV took a unilateral approach to offer part payment of the invoice this year. I havent seen 
any evidence that it discussed its approach with Mrs C before doing so. 
I would normally expect  to see an insurer explain  and justify  its position by reference to the 
particular items in dispute, take on board any response it received, and advance arguments 
Ref: DRN67823084addressed to the particular items  in dispute  to try to persuade the healthcare provider to 
accept the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise. 
Bearing in mind the rules and regulations set out above, I havent seen any evidence that 
URV has engaged  with the hospital  although it has had two years to do so.
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly manage  any 
conflicts between its own interests and those of Mrs C. I dont think  it has had due regard  to 
Mrs Cs interests  here. And I think it has unreasonably put its own commercial interests 
above hers without considering her specific circumstances. 
The amount  in dispute is 77,000 Turkish Liras   which isnt a substantial  sum for the length 
of stay Mrs C had in hospital and for the treatment she received. URV has offered to pay 
approximately a quarter  of the amount requested by the hospital which  I dont think  is fair or 
reasonable when taking  into consideration the following events:
key events
4 June 2018  Mrs Cs nephew called URV and told it she was at a private hospital  
URV asked if she could be moved  to a public hospital. Private hospital said no.
Throughout June   A number of calls were made by Mrs Cs nephew to URV  asking 
it to contact the hospital - the hospital said they hadnt heard anything.  URV said it 
needed to check  previous/past  medical history and it was waiting  for Mrs Cs GP to 
respond to it.
Mrs Cs nephew told URV  he would  arrange  a flight  home for his aunty  - and the 
doctor had said that she was fit to fly but via a stretcher. URV said it needed records  
from her GP to confirm cover.  Mrs Cs nephew then arranged  for Mrs C to fly home 
on a wheelchair  as URV  didnt  help. The treating doctor had recommended  a 
stretcher, but this wasnt arranged  by URV  and so Mrs C had a very uncomfortable  
journey. Mrs Cs nephew had called URV a number of times. 
Mrs Cs nephew has also provided  an email  from the hospital to confirm that URV 
hadnt been in contact  with the hospital.
Mrs C had a lengthy stay (of approximately three  months) in hospital when she 
returned to the UK.
During our investigation, URV agreed  to negotiate with the hospital  within  28 days, 
pay any costs paid directly by Mrs C or her nephew,  including interest at 8% from the 
date the claim was submitted and £1,000 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs C.
Taking into consideration the amount of time the bill has been outstanding and the lack of 
communication between  URV and Mrs Cs GP and the hospital  over the last two years, I 
dont think its fair or reasonable for Mrs C to continue worrying  about the outstanding costs. 
Ive considered Mrs Cs individual and personal circumstances including her age and that 
she had suffered from a stroke which left her hospitalised for more than two weeks. This was 
followed by her return to the UK via a wheelchair  whilst a stretcher repatriation was 
recommended by the treating doctor.  
Ref: DRN67823085Mrs C was treated by the hospital and kept in intensive care for more  than two weeks.  There 
is no evidence that the bill is unjustified or inflated.  URV hasnt  given any reasons why it 
thinks the bill is inflated. And for the length  of stay and the seriousness of Mrs Cs condition,  
which would have needed monitoring,  I dont think  the bill seems unjustified.
putting things right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant  the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which  in this case  is 
URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R also provides  that a direction may require  the respondent, here URV, to take 
such steps in relation  to the complainant as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court  could order those  steps to be taken.
I accept that, because the healthcare  providers  bill hasnt been  agreed or adjudicated, there 
isnt an ascertained legal liability on Mrs C to pay the balance of the bill to the healthcare 
provider so URVs duty to indemnify her by paying  that balance  hasnt  been  triggered. But in 
this particular case, Im persuaded its fair and reasonable for URV to do so  particularly 
given that the amount in dispute isnt particularly substantial.
Thats because,  for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think there is sufficient evidence 
that the invoices were  grossly excessive, and I dont  think URV has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way in which it has taken over the handling of the defence or settlement of 
the healthcare  providers  claim against  Mrs C.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to 
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the healthcare  provider and agree a figure  
less than the outstanding  amount.  However, its had since 2018  to do so, and hasnt. And so 
in the circumstances of this particular case,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for 
URV to settle the outstanding amount  without further delay. 
URV says it has already  paid £250  compensation to Mrs C using the account details 
provided in her claim form. But Mrs C says she didnt receive this. I havent seen any 
satisfactory evidence that URV has made the payment. URV should  be able to provide clear  
confirmation and evidence from its bank that payment was made.  If URV cant  provide 
satisfactory evidence from its bank that payment  was made, then it should pay the full 
amount of £1,000 to Mrs C.  
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mrs C accepts our final decision I direct 
URV to:
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any interest  
due on the outstanding amount  and any collection fees Mrs C is liable for, and
pay Mrs C £1,000  as compensation for the trouble and upset, if this hasnt already 
been paid. 
my findings
Both sides have replied to my provisional  findings,  which I adopt as part of this final decision. 
Ref: DRN67823086URV has responded and has accepted my provisional decision  it has said the provider bill 
has now been dealt  with by its agent. It has also provided proof of paying  £250 to Mrs C 
from its bank.
Mrs C has responded and has made the following comments:
she would like an apology
her nephew should be compensated for his time for completing  30 months of 
paperwork
URV should pay Mrs Cs nephews expenses in full 
the claim should be paid in full
URV should reimburse her police fee of approximately £90
Ive seen URV apologised to Mrs C on 20 August 2018 accepting that it hadnt maintained 
sufficient contact or meaningful assistance. And so I wont  be directing a further apology.
Ive seen a £250 BACs  payment made to Mrs C from an RBS account on the 17 August 
2018, using the account details provided  on the claim form. If this payment didnt reach  Mrs 
C, she will need to query this with the receiving bank. 
URV has agreed to pay the hospitals full costs plus Mrs Cs nephews  costs as set out on 
the claim form. It has said it will obtain up to date bank account  details to do so. Mrs C 
should provide  this information when requested. As the costs  paid by Mrs Cs nephew were 
paid in another currency (Turkish liras and Euros), URV should use the exchange  rate 
applicable on the date the payments  were made,  minus any excess which may be payable.  
If there are further costs which havent yet been  claimed, such as the police fee, I would 
expect this information to be passed  to URV with receipts, for consideration, in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
In relation to Mrs Cs nephews time for dealing with her complaint as her representative, Ive 
considered the overall direction Ive made and the compensation Im directing for Mrs C. As 
Mrs C is the policyholder, any compensation would be paid to her for the stress  and 
inconvenience experienced  as a result of the complaint. I cannot compensate  Mrs Cs 
nephew separately.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  
from the date on which  we tell it that Mrs C accepts our final decision,  I direct Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to:
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any interest  
due on the outstanding amount  and any collection fees Mrs C is liable for 
pay Mrs C a further £750 as compensation for the trouble and upset caused  URV 
has already paid £250
pay Mrs Cs nephews costs as outlined  in the original claim form, with 8% simple  
interest from the date of claim  to the date the payment  is made, using the exchange 
rate applicable  on the date the payments  were  made, minus  any excesses payable. 
consider any further costs incurred by Mrs C (such as the police fee) in relation to 
this claim in line with the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy
Ref: DRN67823087Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 January 2021.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6782308