K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2005. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold him the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland as BoS throughout this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr S says that he didnt  know the policy was optional. However, he hasnt told us why he 
thinks that was the case or gone  into much  detail when describing what  happened at the 
time. This isnt that surprising given how long ago the event in question took place. Even  the 
best of memories can struggle over the sort of timeframe involved in this case.  But this is 
something I have to consider when weighing up the evidence  in front of me and thinking 
about whats likely to have happened. 
BoS has provided us with copies of Mr Ss credit  card application form and credit agreement. 
Having looked  at these, I can see that there  was a section on the application form called  
Product Details. And in that section it said Credit Card Repayment  Cover. This was 
immediately followed by a box that has an X in it. This looks like it was computer generated 
and it is, in my view, the likely result  of a conversation between Mr S and BoS as theres 
nothing persuasive  to suggest  otherwise. 
Whats more, as Mr S went on to commit to PPI by ticking and signing for it on the credit  
agreement where  it said I wish to purchase  Credit  Card Repayment Cover , I find it hard to 
argue that he didnt  agree to take the policy  or that theres the evidence  to say he only 
agreed because  he had to. 
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mr S  which means  it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for him. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable  for 
him overall.  He doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on 
the cover. And given what hes told us about his financial circumstances, including  his sick 
pay and ability to keep  up with his repayments  using other  means, he seems to have had a 
need for the cover.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mr S clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr S about  the policy wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the same reasons I dont think the policy was an unsuitable  
recommendation to have  made, I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
him off taking it out as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
Ref: DRN63828752This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mr S paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give him back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what  Ive said above, 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6382875