K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc refused his claim brought  under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. He says goods he purchased were misrepresented  and he 
wants a refund.
background
Mr A tells us that whilst on holiday abroad he purchased a ring for his wife. He says the ring 
was described by the jeweller - both in an advertisement  and at the time of purchase - as 
being an 18 carat gold and diamond ring. He says his wife tried on the ring at the time of 
purchase and that it fitted. But he says that upon later examination the ring didnt fit and he 
suspects it was exchanged in the store from which it was purchased. He says that hes now 
found it wasnt a diamond ring and that hes provided a report  to prove this.
Tesco told us that there  was no real evidence of what  Mr A purchased as the documentation 
didnt identify the item. And it said that even if it could be shown that Mr A purchased a ring 
there was nothing to show hed bought the same type of ring as advertised. It also said the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier link (D-C-S) wasnt present.
Our investigator issued  two views  on this case.  In his first view he said he didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld  as there  was insufficient information to show  the nature of the 
item purchased. And he said that Mr A hadnt  provided any reports  to show  the ring wasnt 
an 18 carat  gold and diamond ring. But he changed his opinion  after Mr A had provided 
further evidence  including  a copy of the advert  and photograph showing  the ring was too big 
to fit on his wifes finger.  He said Mr A had alerted  Tesco as soon as he became  aware  of 
the issue. So he thought it should refund  the purchase price  to Mr A.
Tesco didnt  agree and said there was no documentation to show  Mr A had bought a ring 
and without that there could be no valid section 75 claim. As its not been possible to resolve 
this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This claim  has been brought under section 75 and whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do 
take it into account. But its important to note that - as this complaint  is brought  against 
Tesco - Im looking  at whether it handled  Mr As claim fairly rather  than deciding upon the 
merits of any underlying claim he may have against  the supplying jeweller. But I do take this 
into consideration in determining  if Tesco has dealt  with his claim properly.
If a breach  of contract and/or misrepresentation occurs in relation to the supply of goods or 
services, section 75 potentially provides a customer - who has used certain types  of credit to 
pay for the goods/services - with a "like" claim against the supplier  of that credit as they 
would have against the supplier of the goods or services.  
Ref: DRN69134842A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a customer to enter an 
agreement and as a result of that misrepresentation to suffer  a loss. And Tescos view is that 
because Mr As purchase receipt doesnt  specify the item purchased  then it cant  be shown 
theres been a misrepresentation.  And it also says this means the necessary D-C-S link isnt 
present.
Where evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - I have  to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is I decide  the most likely  explanation to account for 
whats happened.
Dealing briefly with the D-C-S issue, Im satisfied this relates to the relationship  between  the 
parties - and not the goods purchased. It requires there to be a pre-existing arrangement  
between the creditor  (Tesco) and the supplier (jeweller) in the knowledge that credit  is to 
used to finance a transaction between  the debtor ( Mr A) and the supplier. That the jeweller 
was prepared to accept a Tesco credit card transaction as payment  for the item indicates 
that there  were such pre-existing  arrangements. And the payment financed  the transaction 
between the jeweller and Mr A. So the required link is present here.
The receipt which Mr A has produced shows he bought an item from a jewellers store  for 
450 euros.  Whilst the nature of that item is not identified I think its more  probable  than not 
that the receipt refers to the ring which is now in Mr As possession.  Whilst Tesco  suggests 
that theres insufficient  evidence to show this, it hasnt offered a plausible  reason why Mr A 
should be claiming this to be the case if it were not so. Theres  a corresponding debit on his 
credit card account to show an item was purchased on the date and with the merchant  he 
claims. Its a reasonable inference that a jeweller  would be the supplier of such a ring.
Its also the case that Mr A has provided a copy of an advertisement from the jeweller in 
which it seems  a similar item is depicted.  And he made a prompt  complaint to Tesco upon 
returning to this country from his holiday in which he gave  details consistent  with this 
complaint.
Ive considered the possibility of whether Mr A couldve been mistaken as to the item he 
agreed to purchase. But Ive concluded  this is unlikely. Ive seen photographs  of the ring 
which appear to show  it doesnt fit his wifes  finger. This is also confirmed in the report  Ive 
seen from an expert,  who Ill refer to as B, whose letterhead describes him as a jewellery 
designer and goldsmith.  He examined a ring presented to him by Mr A. He describes the ring 
as being of 14carat gold, stamped outside  the UK. He said the stones had been tested with 
an electronic diamond tester which showed the stones werent diamonds but another  type of 
white clear stone. And the ring was five sizes larger than Mrs As finger size. 
It seems  unlikely  that Mr A would knowingly buy his wife a ring which  didnt fit her. Mr A has 
described his wife trying the ring for size in store - which is what  one would expect.  The most 
probable explanation is that the ring he was supplied with wasnt that which  his wife had tried 
on and which hed agreed to purchase.
During my enquiries into his complaint  I also asked Mr A to obtain  a valuation of the item 
with which  hed been supplied. This was necessary in order  to establish  hed incurred  a loss.
This valuation, for insurance purposes, was also carried out by B and estimates the item as 
being worth  around  £330. So significantly less than Mr A paid based on the description he 
was given. 
Ref: DRN69134843Whilst Tesco didnt have  the opportunity to see this prior to making its decision I doubt that -
even if it had been available - it wouldve changed its view. Tescos  main submission related 
to the lack of identification  of the item on the original receipt - the valuation  doesnt deal with 
this.
In summary,  I think its more probable than not that Mr A purchased a ring which had been 
described as being  an 18 carat gold and diamond  ring. This proved to be a false  description 
and Im sure Mr A wouldnt have completed the purchase if hed been given an accurate 
description. Im satisfied on the information  provided  that Tesco shouldve accepted this to 
be the case. And had it done so it wouldve recognised the item had been misrepresented.
Im therefore  upholding this complaint. The usual remedy in the case  of a misrepresentation 
is to try to put a consumer back to the same position  as before the misrepresentation. And 
not to the position as if the (mis)representation  had been true. So this will require Mr A to 
send the ring to Tesco  and relinquish any rights he has over it. This will enable  Tesco  to 
dispose of the item as it sees fit. Once hes returned the ring, Id require Tesco to refund the 
purchase cost.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
Subject to Tesco Personal  Finance plc receiving the ring which  was supplied to Mr A - and 
which forms the subject  matter of this complaint  - together  with a waiver  of Mr As rights over 
it, I require  it to take the following action:
1.Refund 450 euros,  or the current sterling equivalent, to Mr A together with simple 
interest at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6913484