K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint against Sesame Limited  is about  the advice he was given to transfer the 
benefits from his occupational  pension  scheme (OPS) to a section 32 buyout plan. Mr M 
considers that he was poorly advised  and has lost out financially as a result of the transfer.   
background
Mr M transferred his pension benefits  to the section 32 plan in 1995.  He took some benefits 
from the plan around the end of 2015  a tax free lump sum of just over £7,000 and just over 
£21,000 was put into a drawdown plan. The remainder of the funds were  required to help 
provide the guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) payable  from the section 32 when Mr M 
reached aged 65. 
Mr M subsequently  became concerned  that he had been poorly  advised  from the outset and 
complained to Sesame.  Sesame  accepted  that the advice to transfer out of the OPS to the 
section 32 plan hadnt been in Mr Ms best interests. And it completed a loss assessment to 
calculate any financial losses  that Mr M had suffered as a result  of the transaction.  
The result of Sesames  loss assessment showed that, actuarially, the value of the benefits  in 
the section 32 plan were higher than the value of the benefits had Mr M left them in the OPS. 
So Sesame didnt  think Mr M had lost out as a result of the transfer. 
Mr M, through his representative didnt agree. They didnt think the calculation had been 
carried out correctly.  And they subsequently referred the matter to us. 
Mr Ms representative raised a number  of technical queries about the calculations, but 
primarily thought that Sesame had overvalued the benefits of the GMP that would  be 
provided by the section  32 plan. And hadnt  taken into account the excess pension  Mr M 
had also lost following  the transfer.  
After looking into the matter our investigator  ultimately didnt agree that the calculation was 
incorrect. Shed confirmed with the OPS scheme  that the earliest Mr M would have been 
able to take benefits from it was at age 60. However  Mr M had taken benefits from the 
section 32 plan in 2015 (as outlined above); hed been a few years away  from aged  60 at 
that time.  Although the actual amounts payable from the section 32 plan may now have been 
lower than the OPS,  Mr M had had the use of the tax-free cash and residual pension a few 
years earlier than if he had remained in his original scheme. 
The investigator thought the loss calculation showed that, overall, the value of the section 32 
plans benefits  was higher  than the value of the OPS in the circumstances where  it was 
accessed early (and where Mr M wouldnt have been able to access  those benefits  in the 
OPS).
Ref: DRN68659852So the investigator didnt think that Sesame needed  to pay compensation in the 
circumstances. 
Mr Ms representative didnt agree. It said Mr M couldnt take tax-free cash from his 
remaining section 32 plan and he needed  funds as he had debts and other pressing 
commitments to meet. It said if Mr M had remained in his OPS he would have been  able to 
take benefits at age 60  but now he needed  to wait until aged 65 to take the benefits from 
his section 32 plan.  So he was out of pocket  for 5 years.
The representative also said that although it was true that Mr M couldnt have drawn benefits 
from the OPS until aged 60, he would have had the option to transfer away from it and draw  
all his benefits - including the excess and the GMP - at age 55 if he really needed to do so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and largely  for the same reasons.
I understand why the representative initially had suspicions about  the calculations.  But its 
become clear that Mr M did take some  benefits  in late 2015  (known  as the non-reserved 
funds). Although  Mr M would have been able to take his benefits in full if he remained in the 
OPS hes now got to wait until aged  65 to take the value of the GMP. But Mr M has had use 
of the money  he took in 2015  which wouldnt  have  been possible under  the OPS,  and he can 
make use of flexible access. 
I accept it may have been possible for Mr M to have transferred out of the OPS if he had 
remained a member of it. However there are various  alternative scenarios that might have 
played out, and its now speculation as to what Mr M might otherwise have chosen to do or 
whether that alternative would have worked  out better for him. 
Mr M has now had use of some of his money since 2015 and is guaranteed to get at least 
the equivalent value of his GMP at age 65 payable for the remainder of his life. If he had 
stayed in his scheme  and transferred into a drawdown arrangement in 2015  (mirroring what 
he did) theres no guarantee he would have been  better off than he is now. Sesame  carried 
out its calculation  comparing the position with what actually occurred, and Im satisfied  thats 
a reasonable basis  for the calculation  in the circumstances.  
The fact of the matter  is that Mr M did take some  of his benefits early  this was a benefit in 
practical terms of Mr M having use of that money since 2015. And this is also reflected  in it 
having an impact in actuarial terms in the loss calculation. On the one hand,  Mr M wont  
receive the income that he would otherwise have received  from the OPS from age 60 to 65. 
But on the other, he has had the benefit  of that part of the pension  that he took in 2015. And 
overall, the value  of the benefits  taken from the section 32 to date and those available  from 
age 65 are higher  than the OPS. 
Overall therefore, like the adjudicator, I dont think Sesame needs  to pay Mr M compensation 
for financial loss. 
Sesame has accepted however that the original advice wasnt  suitable. And its offered Mr M 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused. Im satisfied thats  a reasonable offer in the 
particular circumstances  of the case.
Ref: DRN68659853my final decision
Im aware that Sesame  Limited has made an offer to pay Mr M £200  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the matter. I conclude that such  an offer is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  My decision is that Sesame Limited should pay Mr M £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6865985