K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage Miss A holds with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). 
Miss A is particularly dissatisfied with how BOS has handled a payment arrangement on the 
account and more generally dissatisfied with how its treated her in respect  of her wider 
financial difficulties.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
and Ive used  my own words when  doing so. No discourtesys intended by that. Its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my 
decision is published. In what  follows, all of the monetary amounts have been  rounded  
slightly; thats deliberate,  again because it reduces the risk of identification.
Ive been provided  with details of three mortgages  Miss A holds with BOS. These are 
secured on properties  that Ill refer to here as 97F, 25K and 31N; the mortgage on 31N is a 
buy-to-let (BTL) and is the primary focus of this complaint. The 31N mortgage was in arrears 
and the subject of recovery  action involving solicitors appointed by BOS.  Miss A raised  her 
complaint on 30 April 2018 following a conversation in which  a member of BOS staff told 
Miss A that no payment  arrangement was in place on the mortgage. This contradicted what 
Miss A had been  told in a phone call on 19 April 2018.
In the earlier  call, Miss A and BOS  had agreed  a payment arrangement  under which she 
would pay the contractual  monthly  instalment (around £1,360) plus an extra £50 towards  the 
arrears. As part of this agreement, Miss A had provided an income and expenditure 
assessment, and made payment  of around  £1,550. 
Miss A was, therefore, surprised and upset to be told on 30 April 2018 that no arrangement 
had been agreed. She initially complained by phone. BOS,  in its final response, confirmed 
that the arrangement had been agreed  on 19 April 2018. But it also explained that because  
of the ongoing involvement of solicitors in the recovery action at that point, its systems hadnt  
allowed the arrangement to be recorded  on Miss As contact notes. This meant that the staff 
member handling  her 30 April 2018  phone call couldnt see details of any arrangement  and 
so assumed there wasnt one. 
The business also addressed a number  of additional  points that Miss A had had also raised 
at other  times in what  it called a consolidated response. Amongst the other  issues  BOS 
covered was a question  over whether Miss A had been told she could ignore the banks  
letters, its preference for handling collections matters by telephone (Miss  A preferred to use 
fax) and some general comments regarding the arrears status  of the mortgages  on 25K and 
97F respectively. 
Another point  covered  at this stage was a payment of £5,000 which  Miss A had made during 
April 2018 specifically to reduce the arrears on 31N. In May, Miss A had asked BOS  to 
Ref: DRN60133742switch some of that payment over to the 97F mortgage. BOS did this, but transferred the 
wrong amount,  so had to make  a second  adjustment. The banks pointed  out that it shouldnt  
have agreed to the reallocation, because  the £5,000 payment to the 31N account  had been  
a condition of it stopping an eviction. Nonetheless,  it said it let things  stand as they were.
Miss A wasnt satisfied and wrote  in again.  She was unhappy that BOS had merged this 
complaint with another one about one of the other properties and at the same time said BOS 
hadnt addressed  all of her points. She said it was disingenuous to say there was no 
payment arrangement when there  was one, and pointed out that BOS  had taken  longer than 
eight weeks to deal with her complaint. BOS repeated  its admission that it had made a 
mistake in saying there was no arrangement  when  there was, and offered Miss A £150 
compensation for this and the delay in dealing with her complaint.
Further correspondence followed, including a letter from Miss A dated  10 August 2018  in 
which she made very clear that this complaint was solely  about  the mortgage  on 31N,  and 
not her other mortgages. BOS wrote  again, twice, during  September 2018, and again 
elected to consolidate other matters into its responses. It sent Miss A a cheque  for £25 by 
way of an apology  for difficulties she had experienced when sending letters by fax. 
Miss A brought her complaint to us in October  2018; one of our investigators  looked into it 
but decided BOS had done  enough  to put things right. Miss A doesnt agree, so the case  has 
come to me for review.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. So when BOS chooses the telephone as its preferred 
communication channel  for collections and recovery, its not our role to say it should arrange 
things differently. Wed  expect a business to be flexible  over offering alternative 
communication channels  where theres  a genuine  obstacle to using the phone (for example 
if a customer has hearing  difficulties).  But we dont expect it simply to accommodate every 
persons individual preferences.
We deal with specific disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont  take either sides  
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work within 
the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules  give us. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round.
A recurring  theme in the correspondence Ive seen is Miss As annoyance that BOS  has 
chosen to issue  portmanteau  responses that dealt with a broader range of matters than 
she would  have liked, and that doing  so took longer than eight weeks. I appreciate Miss As 
not happy with that but in general terms, I think Id be slow to criticise a business because it 
tried to deal with too much rather than too little. But mindful that this is an issue  about which 
Ref: DRN60133743Miss A clearly  feels very strongly,  it seems reasonable that I should confine my decision 
here to content  taken  from Miss As letter to us from 20 October 2018. 
Bearing in mind my above comments on how the complaint  was handled, in essence, what  
that leaves me to deal with is that BOS wrongly told Miss A that a payment arrangement 
hadnt been agreed for 31N when it had. Im aware  the investigators  view covered other 
matters (much as BOS had done  in its responses)  but its for me to decide where the real 
crux of a complaint lies. Ive set out my reasoning  for this above, and taking that approach  
means this is a much simpler complaint than its been made to look. 
Miss A is right when  she says BOS had a duty to give her consistent information about what 
was happening with the mortgage. And its not in dispute that BOS failed to do that; it told 
Miss A on 19 April 2018 that an arrangement  had been agreed;  it then told her on 
30 April 2018 that there  was no arrangement.  The reason  for this is that, due to system 
limitations, the involvement  of its solicitors meant BOS hadnt  been able to key the details of 
the arrangement  agreed on 19 April 2018 into its records before the phone call on 
30 April 2018.
But BOS  has admitted its mistake, and explained  why it happened, and thats what  wed 
expect it to do. So Im afraid I dont agree with Miss A when she says her underlying 
complaint remains unanswered  and outstanding. Miss A has received an answer; it just 
happens not to be one she likes.  BOS may have taken longer  to provide an answer  than it 
should, and of course it would have been  better if the mistake hadnt happened  in the first 
place. But the reality is, things do sometimes go wrong. 
The backdrop to this was that Miss A was trying to stop 31N being taken into possession: 
BOS already had a possession order so the action in court on 19 April 2018 was around  
whether that should be enforced. The arrangement Miss A negotiated on the phone was 
before the court hearing, and it means she was able to stop the possession going ahead. 
Ive no doubt that was a stressful time for Miss A, although its worth  keeping in mind  this 
was a buy-to-let  property, so it wasnt  Miss  As own home that was at risk. 
Nonetheless, I imagine  shed have been  very relieved on that day when she thought matters 
were under control. In that context, being  told something different eleven days  later must 
have been very upsetting for her. 
But that aside,  Im not convinced Miss A was materially disadvantaged by the confusion.  
Miss As evidence is detailed and extensive (albeit  quite  duplicated  in places)  and Ive read 
all of it. But theres nothing in it that suggests  to me that, in the time between being  told there 
was no arrangement and finding  out that there  was after all, Miss A suffered financial 
detriment in terms of how the mortgage on 31N was managed.
Miss A can reasonably expect to be compensated for the time spent dealing with BOS and 
the trouble and upset Ive mentioned above, but in the circumstances, I think BOS offer of 
£150 is broadly  fair. Our investigator mentioned this in his view of the complaint as being  
money Miss A had already received.  After  she challenged that, we checked with BOS  
whether the payment was actually  made  or just offered;  it confirmed the latter. Ive found that 
it was a fair offer and Miss A can still accept it by contacting BOS directly. In the event  she 
does that, Id expect  BOS  to send her the money within four weeks  of receiving her 
acceptance.
Ref: DRN60133744I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from her submissions the intensity  with which Miss A has brought the 
complaint. She sees error or wrong-doing in almost  everything the bank has done (or not 
done). Thats a natural, subjective  reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively,  sometimes  
taking a step back and focussing  on the broader picture. Thats  what  Ive done.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against Bank of Scotland  plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6013374