K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that DJS (UK) Limited  (trading  as Piggybank) didnt carry out appropriate  
checks before lending to him. He says if it had, it would have realised he couldnt  afford  the 
loans.
background
Mr L had two loans  from Piggybank  in November 2017 and May 2018.  Loan 1 was for £350 
and loan 2 was for £400. Mr L says he was struggling with debt and the loans werent 
affordable or sustainable.
Our adjudicator thought Piggybank should  have  carried  out more  thorough  enquiries  about 
Mr Ls circumstances before lending. He thought that looking at Mr Ls other  unsecured 
loans which  were visible on his credit file Piggybank should have asked about the 
repayments for these  loans. Initially, he thought  that if it had done  this it would have 
discovered that Mr L couldnt afford  to repay either of the loans. He recommended  
Piggybank refund any interest and charges associated with both loans  and remove any 
negative information  from Mr Ls credit file.
Piggybank replied with a copy  of the credit  checks it had carried  out. The adjudicator 
considered this new information and revised  his view. He thought that as one of the 
unsecured loans didnt appear  on the credit  check the first loan would have appeared 
affordable even if better checks  had been carried out. His view remained the same for the 
second loan.
Piggybank didnt reply  to the adjudicators revised  view so I dont know why it doesnt agree. 
Because Piggybank didnt reply the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before Piggybank lent to Mr L it had to check that he could afford to repay the loans from his 
income and any savings she might have  had. Whilst theres  no set list of checks  it should 
undertake, they would normally reflect the amount and frequency of the borrowing and what 
Piggybank already knew about Mr L. Id also expect  Piggybank to take note of information it 
received and ask further questions if necessary.
Piggybank says it recorded Mr Ls income as £1,498, and that Mr L said his normal  living 
costs were between £795  and £805.  On these figures  this would leave around £698 in 
disposable income. The instalments for the first loan were £124 and for the second loan 
were £146.  
Piggybank provided  the results of its credit checks which showed the level of unsecured  debt 
that Mr L had at the point of taking out the loans.  The repayments for these loans were more  
than the £300 he had told Piggybank. When the repayments for these loans are taken into 
account Mr L didnt  have enough disposable  income  to sustainably meet the instalments for 
loan 2. 
Ref: DRN62304572I think that the results  of the credit  search  showing the level of Mr Ls unsecured debt was 
enough to alert Piggybank to the need  for additional  information about the level of 
repayments. I think if had carried out proportionate enquiries it would have asked Mr L about 
these repayments   and I cant see that it did that.
If it had, then I think Piggybank would  have discovered that Mr L was so heavily in debt with 
his other  credit commitments  he didnt have enough money to sustainably repay the 
instalments on the second loan. I agree with the adjudicator that proportionate checking 
wouldnt have made any difference  to the decision  to give first loan given the information that 
Piggybank had.
I appreciate that Piggybank didnt see the actual repayment amounts on the credit check  it 
had. But the amount outstanding should  have alerted Piggybank  to check  the figures it had 
been given.
Overall, I think that if Piggybank had carried out proportionate  checks  it wouldnt have lent 
the second loan to Mr L. So Piggybank should  now put Mr L in the position hed have been 
in if it hadnt lent to him. So it should  refund all interest and charges associated  with this loan 
and remove any adverse entries  on it from his credit file. As Mr L has had the benefit of the 
loan, its fair that he should repay  the amount he borrowed. 
my decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. DJS (UK) Limited should refund any interest and 
charges paid on Mr Ls second loan.  It should also:
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement. *
write off any interest and charges not yet paid.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ls credit  file in relation to the 
refunded loan.
it can deduct the amount of any refund from the balance  fairly owed on the loan 
before paying  Mr L any surplus.  If Mr L has paid more than the original loan amount 
then DJS (UK) Limited  should return the surplus, and add simple interest at a rate of 
8% per annum to each of these amounts  from the date he overpaid  to the date of 
refund. *
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DJS (UK) Limited to take off tax from this interest.  
Piggybank must give Mr L a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6230457