K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Landmark  Mortgages Limited  wont reduce the interest rate on his 
mortgage. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in April 2019. The contents of my provisional findings are 
attached to this final decision and form part of it. In my provisional decision I explained why 
I was minded to uphold  Mr Bs complaint in part. I invited  both parties to let me have any 
further submissions before I reached a final decision. 
Mr B didnt respond. Landmark didnt accept  my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reviewed everything carefully, and considered the case  afresh. In response to my 
provisional decision Landmark said:
Landmark have worked closely with StepChange and have spent time with the mortgage 
advice team at the StepChange offices  in Leeds.  StepChange offer a regulated  whole of 
market mortgage  advice service including equity  release mortgage  advice.  StepChange  
also provide a number of other services to help people address financial problems and 
therefore StepChange can provide our customers with a holistic solution  for the 
requirements of our customers.  
Landmark do not accept that StepChange as a regulated provider of mortgage advice are 
inferior to any other  providers of advice in the market. To the contrary,  we believe 
StepChange are uniquely positioned to provide  solutions for Landmark customers
Im slightly  bemused by this as theres  been  no mention previously on this case  file that Ive 
seen to indicate Landmark had referred  Mr B to StepChange for independent mortgage 
advice. And at no time in my provisional decision did I even mention StepChange, let alone  
say (or imply) it is inferior in any way to other service providers  in the same sector.
In any event, Im pleased to see Landmark agrees that Mr B should receive independent  
mortgage advice.
In the absence of any further submissions from Mr B I see no reason to depart from the 
remainder of my provisional  findings.
Ref: DRN60971262my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Landmark  Mortgages Limited  to refer Mr B to 
StepChanges independent regulated mortgage  broking arm. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60971263CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr B complains that Landmark Mortgages Limited  wont reduce the interest rate on his mortgage.  
background
Mr B has an interest only mortgage. It was taken out in January 2004 with the former  Northern Rock. 
When Northern Rock collapsed, his mortgage  was moved to the government-owned vehicle  which 
took it over,  and has since been sold on to Landmark.
When his preferential interest rate expired Mr Bs mortgage reverted to the lenders  standard variable  
rate (SVR),  and thats what Mr B has been paying  ever since.
Mr B says its not fair that Landmark  wont  reduce his interest rate  either by reducing the SVR or 
giving him a new lower  preferential rate. He says hes a mortgage prisoner  because  hes in an 
individual voluntary  arrangement (IVA) so he cant remortgage elsewhere to obtain a better  rate.
Our adjudicator didnt think Landmark was acting unfairly. Mr B didnt agree  and so its been passed 
to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mr B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his 
complaint in the way that I have. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.  If 
I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because  I dont think  I 
need to comment on it in order  to reach the right outcome.
Were an informal dispute resolution  service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. We look at 
complaints brought  by consumers  about  financial  businesses on a case  by case  basis.  My role is to 
determine the merits of complaints by considering the specific circumstances of each complaint.  
This service provides  a different function from the financial regulator  and we dont seek  to regulate, 
fine or punish businesses. If Mr B thinks Landmark misled  the government when it took over the 
mortgages then thats a matter he can take up with the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA)  if he wants to. I need to point out though that the FCA doesnt look at individual complaints so 
it wouldnt be a review of this complaint, it would simply be a matter of Mr B expressing broader 
concerns.
Ill start by saying that I have considerable sympathy  with the predicament Mr B finds  himself  in. The 
lending environment when he took his mortgage out was very different. Now, its much harder to get 
an interest only mortgage and, since he took the mortgage out, Mr B has entered an IVA.
This complaint is about  Landmark,  not the government-owned lender that held the mortgage before it 
was sold to Landmark. When  Landmark took over the mortgage  it was on that lenders SVR, and in 
practice the same rate continues  to be applied.  The government -owned  lender was prevented from 
offering interest rate products by the terms of its government bailout  because of legal restrictions on 
government bodies competing against the market. That doesnt apply  to Landmark,  which is a private 
company, so theres no legal or government policy bar to Landmark  offering new interest rate 
products as there was with the government-owned lender.
Landmarks not an active lender, and isnt trying to attract new customers through  offering  low rates. 
Its taken  a commercial  decision in the interests of the financial management of its business to 
maintain all its customers on the SVR once  their previous interest rate products  expire.  To that extent, 
its not treating  Mr B any differently from any of its other  customers.
Ref: DRN60971264Although Landmark is a closed lender (in that its not taking on new business) its still regulated by the 
FCA and has to follow  its rules. But theres nothing in the FCAs rules  that says a lender has to offer 
new interest rates to its customers once their old ones expire.  The rules say that a lender has to treat 
its customers fairly taking account  of their best interests; it has to communicate with them in a clear,  
fair and not misleading  way; it has to notify them of changes  to their monthly payments; and it mustnt 
take advantage of customers who cant move their mortgages elsewhere by treating  them differently 
to other customers with similar characteristics.
Landmark has notified  Mr B of changes to his payments from time to time. And it isnt treating him 
differently from others of its customers  all customers must  stay on the SVR once their products 
expire, just like Mr B. So I dont think Landmark is in breach of any of the regulators rules in not 
offering him a new rate.
I dont think Landmark is acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement either. Mr Bs 
mortgage offer sets out that he would  pay a preferential  rate and thereafter  the SVR. Nothing in the 
mortgage offer or the mortgage terms say that Mr B would be entitled to another  preferential interest  
rate after that one expires.
Im aware, of course, that its common for borrowers to take a preferential rate product   and then 
take another rate rather  than revert to the SVR.  Sometimes thats with an existing  lender; sometimes 
its with another  lender.  But as I say, theres nothing in Mr Bs mortgage  agreement  that says hes 
entitled to a new rate.
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing  in the mortgage contract, that 
requires Landmark  to offer new interest rates. Nor is it under any other legal obligation  to do so.
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I do that by taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance,  and good 
industry practice  but ultimately Im not constrained  by them if I think fairness requires me to do 
something else. 
So the question I have to answer is whether, taking into account the rules and the mortgage terms, its 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  that Landmark has refused Mr B a new interest rate thats 
lower than the SVR.
Ive thought about this carefully. Ive taken into account everything Ive set out above.  
Its very unfortunate  that Mr B has ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt offer new rates. 
But Landmark  is his lender,  and legitimately so. Its decided not to offer new interest rates to any 
customers, including Mr B. Under current law and regulations, thats a decision Landmark  is entitled 
to take. 
Im mindful that if Landmark  were  to offer new lower rates to some customers, but not others, that 
could mean  some customers were being treated less favourably than others with similar 
characteristics  which  in turn could  potentially cause unfairness.  But that isnt currently the case. 
Because Landmark (and its predecessor  owner  of this mortgage) is closed  to new business, it doesnt 
offer new interest  rate products. However, theres nothing in Mr Bs mortgage agreement  that would 
prevent him remortgaging elsewhere   hes no longer  liable for an early  repayment charge, for 
example. But the reason he says he cant do that is because of external changes in his circumstances 
 changes which arent  part of his mortgage  contract, arent within  Landmarks control, and couldnt  
have been foreseen by any party when he took the mortgage out.
Landmarks not treating Mr B any differently from how it treats  its other customers. Its business model 
is based  on not offering  new products, and thats a decision about  its business its entitled  to take. 
Theres nothing in the contract, the law or the regulators rules that requires  Landmark  to offer new 
Ref: DRN60971265products. Landmark itself isnt standing in the way of Mr B moving his mortgage elsewhere. Its 
treating him the same as it treats all its other customers. And Im also mindful that while Landmarks 
SVR is significantly higher  than new interest rate products offered by other lenders, its not dissimilar 
to other lenders SVRs.  
Taking the facts of this case into account, and taking into account the law, rules and my findings  
about Landmarks business model and the level of its SVR, I dont think I can fairly uphold this 
complaint.
That said, I know from my knowledge of the mortgage  market and from my experience of other cases 
that other lenders  with closed books, or who have withdrawn from sections of the market, have made 
arrangements for their borrowers to consult  mortgage  advisers to see whether they can move 
elsewhere to a lender  that would offer new interest rates. 
That seems  fair. I think that where  a lender has closed its book  and is not offering new interest rate 
products to its customers, theres no obligation on it to do so. But at the same time it has to act fairly, 
taking into account the best interests of its customers. 
Theres a balance  to be struck here. It is, generally  speaking, in the best interests of borrowers to 
access lower interest rates.  But where  a lenders  business  model is closed, for the reasons Ive given 
I dont think it would  be right for me to require it to change that.
Other lenders in a similar position have made arrangements to refer their customers to independent  
mortgage brokers to help them move their mortgage away to another lender if its possible to do so. I 
think that represents  good  industry practice, which  is one of the factors I have to take into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this case.
I think  the fair outcome in this case is to recognise  that Landmark doesnt need to offer Mr B a new 
interest rate. But because it has chosen not to do so, fairness  judged against the good practice  of 
the wider industry  in my view requires  it to arrange  for him to receive dedicated independent  
mortgage advice to assist him to identify and, if possible, apply for a mortgage with another  lender 
that does  offer lower  interest rates.
I therefore  intend  to require Landmark to make arrangements, should  he wish to do so, for Mr B to 
receive mortgage  advice from an independent regulated mortgage adviser without  charge to him.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint to the 
extent that I intend to direct  Landmark Mortgages Limited  to arrange for Mr B to consult an 
independent regulated  mortgage adviser without charge to him.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6097126