K820x#14complaint
Miss C complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund some transactions 
which she disputes.
background
Miss C had a number of Barclays accounts. On 23 November 2018, a savings account  was 
opened in her name, using online banking. Four payments were made into this account, 
totalling £1,900. Three of these transactions transferred money from Miss Cs other  accounts  
using online banking.  The other one used her mobile banking  app, on the device which  Miss 
C had been using since the start of May 2017.
The same day, a cash withdrawal of £1,900,  the total balance on the new savings account, 
was made.  This was done at a cash machine inside a branch.  Miss Cs card and correct PIN 
were used, and the security question asked was answered correctly. Barclays then put a 
block on Miss Cs accounts in order to review  the accounts.
Miss C had a disability and wasnt able to visit a branch herself. On 26 November 2018, her 
partner visited a Barclays branch to withdraw  money, but he wasnt  able to because  of the 
review. In discussions between Miss C and Barclays,  it was agreed that her partner could 
withdraw benefits payments as Miss C wanted,  while the review was taking place. Barclays  
offered Miss C £75 for the inconvenience.
On 4 December,  Miss C contacted Barclays and complained that she hadnt  opened  the new 
savings account.  Nor had she authorised  the £1,900 withdrawal.
Barclays stopped  Miss Cs card and issued her with a new card,  PIN, and online banking  
details. But it didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint asking  for the money to be reimbursed. It 
pointed out that the new account had been  opened  using Miss Cs online banking  and PIN. 
And the transfers  of money into that new savings account had also been completed by 
online banking, and would have needed Miss Cs confidential  details.  The withdrawal had 
used Miss Cs bank card and her PIN. Barclays reminded Miss C that she should be the only 
person who knew  her PIN and online banking details. 
Miss C wasnt  satisfied  and complained to this service. She wanted  the £1,900 back, and 
compensation for the distress  it had caused  her and her family.
The investigator didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint. She noted that the withdrawal had been 
carried out using  Miss Cs real card, with the correct PIN, and correct  answer  to the security 
question. And it was likely  that whoever opened  the new savings account was also the 
person who made the withdrawal. 
The investigator considered the options,  and said it was most likely that someone close to 
Miss C had opened the account and made the withdrawal. And although Miss C had said 
she didnt authorise  these, Miss C hadnt  kept her details  secure.  Shed told us that 
members of her family had access to her card, and knew her PIN, online and mobile  banking  
details. Customers are required to keep their details secure. So the investigator didnt uphold  
Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C didnt accept this. She said that:
Ref: DRN60327452-shed only wanted to keep the money  which was her disability benefit, not the full 
£1,900;
-Miss C explained that the reason why she hadnt  reported  the disputed  withdrawal 
straightaway when  she noticed it, was that shed only just come out of hospital and 
had other things on her mind;
-She was unhappy  about the amount of the withdrawal which  had been  allowed, and 
the fact that Barclays  hadnt any CCTV to show who made  the £1,900 withdrawal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 and what they mean for Miss Cs complaint
The relevant  regulations  for Miss Cs complaint  are the Payment Services  Regulations 2017.
These set out that the payment service  user (Miss C) is liable for transactions that were 
authorised, and the bank for transactions  that werent authorised. So the first issue  for me to 
determine is whether  or not Miss C authorised the transactions.
Theres a difference  between  authentication and authorisation.  Authentication  is the 
technical part of a payment. Here, Miss Cs genuine  card, PIN, online banking  information, 
and mobile banking information  were  used. So the opening of the new account, money paid 
into it, and the £1,900  withdrawal, were authenticated.
Authorisation is about whether the consumer consented to the transactions.  Miss C has said 
that she didnt  consent. But there is another stage in the Regulations. Thats  about  whether a 
consumer acted with gross negligence. This includes  the fact that a consumer must tell the 
bank without undue delay if they know their card has been lost, stolen, or used without 
their consent. And they must also keep their personal payment details safe. 
Miss C told us that at the time of the disputed  transactions,  she was living  with her partner 
and two children  (one adult and one teenager). She said that her husband and son had 
access to her card and PIN, and both her children also had access  to her mobile phone. Her 
son knew her mobile banking password, which she said hed previously used with her 
permission. Her son had also helped her with online banking,  including setting up her online 
security and PIN.
I appreciate that as Miss C had been  in hospital,  and had limited mobility,  shed have wanted 
to let family  members have this access to her card,  mobile and online banking, and security  
information. But that does still mean that, technically, she didnt meet  the very strict 
requirement in the Regulations for keeping  her details secure. This is also required by the 
terms and conditions of her Barclays account, as well as the Regulations. Because Miss C 
didnt keep her card,  PIN, mobile and online banking details secure, Barclays  doesnt have 
to refund the disputed money.
Whats most likely to have happened
Ive considered the options for what happened. Miss C suggested that the new account, 
transfers and withdrawal were done by an unknown fraudster. But as Ive set out, all of these 
transactions were  done by someone  who had Miss Cs genuine card,  which hadnt been 
reported lost or stolen,  together with correct PIN, online and mobile security information and 
Ref: DRN60327453personal security question. So I consider  its very unlikely that these were carried  out by a 
third party fraudster unknown to Miss C.
The other options are that Miss C or someone with her knowledge and agreement  made  the 
transactions, or that someone close to her made them without her knowledge and consent. I 
think its most likely  that they were  carried out by someone close to Miss C without her 
consent. Its possible that Miss C did consent  to a family member making them,  or some  of 
them. In particular, I note that after the investigators view, Miss C said she only wants  a part 
of the £1,900 back. But in practical terms, it doesnt  make any difference.  As Ive set out 
above, Miss Cs family members could access the physical items needed  card and mobile 
 and they knew of the relevant security details too. As she didnt keep these things 
securely, Barclays isnt liable to refund the money.
Miss Cs replies to the investigators view
Ive gone on to consider Miss Cs specific points in reply  to the investigators view. 
After the investigators  view, Miss C said that shed  only wanted to keep the money which 
was her disability benefit, not the full £1,900.  This is surprising because  Miss Cs initial  
complaint to Barclays, and to this service, was about  all elements of the disputed 
transactions which she said she didnt authorise  - the new savings account, transfers and 
£1,900 withdrawal. But in any case,  Miss C allowed other people  to have access to her card, 
mobile, PIN, online and mobile banking details. The same principles apply  to the whole  
dispute, not just to part of it.
Miss C knew about the dispute on Monday 26 November  2018, when her partner couldnt 
withdraw money. She reported  a dispute on Tuesday 4 December. I dont have details for 
when Miss C came out of hospital, but I understand it would have been a difficult  time for her 
as she adjusted after a long stay in hospital. But the main reason why I cant  uphold Miss Cs 
complaint is because of the security information, not because it was just over a week before 
she reported it to Barclays.  
Miss C was also unhappy about the amount of the withdrawal  which  had been allowed, and 
the fact that Barclays  hadnt had any CCTV to show who had made the £1,900  withdrawal.
The amount  of the withdrawal was within Barclays limits. And banks  arent required to have  
CCTV to show who makes  every transaction. 
Taking all these factors into account, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN60327454my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6032745