K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Ms B and Mr S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Ms B and Mr S took out an PPI policy called Mortgage Repayments Cover with their 
existing mortgage  in 2009. They paid a monthly  amount  for the policy. They  took this policy 
out as part of a package  called Total Mortgage  Protection Plan  (TMPP) which  offered 
accident, sickness, unemployment, critical illness and life cover. 
In this decision Im only considering the Mortgage  Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the 
TMPP - which is accident, sickness and unemployment cover,  as thats  what 
Ms B and Mr S have complained about.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms B and Mr Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Ms B and Mr S and Halifax.  During that meeting 
Halifax should have  made Ms B and Mr S aware they had a choice in buying the policy.      
Ms B and Mr S say PPI wasnt discussed with them. 
Neither Halifax nor Ms B and Mr S have much paperwork  from the time of sale.  I dont think 
thats surprising.  But it does mean  I have  limited information about  the sale,  so I have to 
decide what I think is likely to have  happened, given the information I do have and the 
broader circumstances.
Ive seen a screenshot of Halifaxs records which shows  it asked  Ms B and Mr S a series  of 
questions checking  whether they were eligible for the policy  and also recorded their 
answers. I think this suggests that a discussion took place  between Ms B and Mr S and 
Halifax about the PPI  and based  on what I know about how Halifax  sold policies like this at 
the time I think its likely  the optional  nature  wouldve been made clear.
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Ms B and Mr S they had a choice 
about the PPI, and they agreed to it. Although I can understand  why they dont remember  
this now.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Ms B and Mr S. So, it had to check it was right for them.  
Looking at Ms B and Mr Ss circumstances they seem to have had a need for the cover. The 
policy benefits were  split 50:50 between  them and neither Ms B or Mr S were affected by 
any of the exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. Such as pre-existing medical conditions or 
unusual working  patterns.  
Ref: DRN62095452Ms B and Mr S say they would have received some sick pay benefits  from their employers. 
But the policy wouldve  paid out alongside  any employee benefits and for longer. It wouldve 
also covered them  if either of them  were  made  redundant. Ms B says she had some saving 
she could have used,  and Mr S could have  relied  on his family for help. But having the policy 
would have meant Ms B could have used  her saving for other  costs  if she was unable  to 
work. And whilst I dont doubt Mr Ss family would have wanted to help,  this help cant  be 
guaranteed as peoples  circumstances can change. So, it seems they had a need for the 
policy. 
Ms B and Mr S were borrowing funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, 
which was secured on their home. So, I think having the security that their mortgage 
repayments would be made if either of them was unable to work would have been important 
to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Ms B and Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But Ms B and Mr S chose 
to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So, I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Ms B and Mr S off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Ms B and Mr S have lost out by anything Halifax  might have done 
wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Ms B and Mr S some  of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling, and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Ms B 
and Mr Ss mortgage was a regulated  mortgage  these rules  dont apply. So, Halifax  doesnt 
need to refund any of the commission Ms B and Mr S paid for the PPI they had with that 
mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6209545