K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Ferratum UK Ltd gave her loans  that were  unaffordable.
background
During 2016 and 2017  Mrs C borrowed five payday  loans from Ferratum,  as follows:
Loan No Amount Date  borrowed Date repaid
1 £250 14 November 2016 30 November 2016
2 £400 2 December 2016 21 December 2016
3 £300 21 December 2016 20 January 2017
4 £300 22 January 2017 20 February 2017
5 £500 6 March 2017 20 March  2017
All of the loans  were repaid in full and on time (loan  two was repaid early).
Mrs C says that, at the time, she had many  other  payday loans and was caught in a debt 
spiral. She believes that Ferratum was wrong  to provide the loans to her they were 
unaffordable.
Ferratum is content that it carried out adequate  affordability checks before  each  loan and 
was satisfied that Mrs C could afford the repayments. Whilst it didnt accept it had been 
wrong to provide the loans, Ferratum  did offer to refund £100 to Mrs C as a gesture of 
goodwill. It appears that Mrs C didnt accept this offer.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Ferratum shouldve  given  Mrs C any of the loans and so 
recommended that compensation  be paid to her. 
Ferratum doesnt  agree. It doesnt consider it would be fair to refund all interest as:
all loans were repaid on time, or early;
a good credit record had been  established  with Mrs C;
it did, on occasion, scale down  the amount lent from that requested,  which demonstrates  
that affordability checks were being maintained.
Because both parties dont agree the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Ferratum was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks  to see whether Mrs C 
could afford  to pay back the loan before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mrs C was borrowing and her lending  history, but 
there was no set list of checks that Ferratum had to do.
Ref: DRN63880712The loans are regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), whose regulations for 
lenders are set out in its consumer credit  sourcebook (generally referred  to as CONC). 
These regulations  - in CONC 5.3.1(2) - require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  
the customer's ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a 
sustainable manner  without the customer incurring  financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse  consequences.  CONC 5.3.1(7) defines sustainable as being able to 
make repayments without undue difficulty.  And explains  that this means borrowers should be 
able to make  their repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to 
borrow to meet these  repayments.
So, the fact that Mrs C managed to repay the loans in full and on time,  doesnt necessarily 
mean the loans  were  affordable for her and that she managed to repay them  in a sustainable 
manner. In other words  I cant assume  that because Mrs C managed to repay her loans that 
she was able to do so out of her normal means  without  having to borrow  further.
Ferratum has told us that, before it approved each loan, it asked Mrs C for details of her 
monthly income and carried out a credit check. Its also shown  us its records of having 
declined to lend to Mrs C on a number of occasions, and also of reducing the amounts lent 
on two occasions  against what Mrs C had requested. It contends this demonstrates that it 
was carrying out affordability checks.
were Ferratums checks proportionate?
Mrs C told Ferratum that she was in full-time employment and that her net monthly  salary  
was £1,934.  
loans one and two
These two loans represented the start of the relationship between  Mrs C and Ferratum.  
Given the amount  of the loans relative to Mrs Cs income, coupled with the duration of the 
loans, I think that, before  lending, Ferratum shouldve looked  at Mrs Cs income  and her 
normal monthly living costs, including any regular financial commitments.
Its clear that Mrs C provided information about  her income  but I cant see that Ferratum 
asked for any details of her regular expenditure. As such I dont think that its checks  went far 
enough.
loan three
Loan two was repaid early but loan three  was granted  on the same day, albeit for a slightly 
lower amount. Its noted in Ferratums files that it scaled back  the amount lent from what  
Mrs C applied for; but I havent seen anything to indicate what either  what  its rationale was 
for doing this, or what the amount the original application was. 
I can see from Ferratums record of the credit check results that, during the three  weeks  
before loan three was approved:
four new credit accounts  were registered  as having been opened;
two new defaults  had been  recorded  against Mrs C.
I acknowledge that this is not, in itself, something  which would necessarily dissuade 
Ferratum from lending  to her. But I do think  that, when viewed alongside the fact that this 
was Mrs Cs third loan request to Ferratum in five weeks,  and shed actually asked for a 
Ref: DRN63880713higher amount, Ferratum shouldve been prompted  to consider whether she might be 
experiencing some increasing financial difficulties.
In these circumstances I think it wouldve been proportionate for Ferratum  to seek  not just 
information about Mrs Cs regular expenditure as before,  but also details of any other short 
term loan commitments  that she might have.  I cant see that it asked for either of these  and 
so I dont think that its checks before this loan were  proportionate.
loans four and five
Loan four was given just two days after the prior loan had been repaid, and was for the same 
amount. Here again, I see from Ferratums file notes that it reduced the amount  lent from 
that sought by Mrs C. I note from the credit check results that there had also been another  
default registered against her since the last loan, and also that her total borrowings had 
increased from £73,507 to £85,920 in the month  since  loan three was approved.
There was a gap of a couple of weeks between repayment of loan four and the grant of loan 
five, which  was for an increased amount,  and had a required repayment  that represented 
over 25% of Mrs Cs monthly  income.
I think that the above observations, together with the repeated, and increasing, nature of 
Mrs Cs borrowings with it shouldve given Ferratum cause  to question whether she was 
becoming increasingly dependent on short term loans. In my view the lender should, by this 
stage, have sought a comprehensive understanding of Mrs Cs financial circumstances. 
There are a number of ways in which  this couldve been achieved  such  as asking for copies 
of her payslips or bills, or sight of her bank  statements. 
I cant see that Ferratum did any of this, and so I dont think that its checks  went  far enough 
given the circumstances of the loans.
were the loans affordable?
Having concluded  that Ferratums checks didnt  go far enough for any of the loans, I must  
now consider whether  it would likely  have come to any different lending decisions if it had 
carried out the better checks that I consider to be proportionate.
loan one
Ive reviewed what Mrs C has told us about her expenditure  commitments  at the time, and 
have also looked  at her bank  statements. I can see that, in the preceding month,  her normal 
living costs  were approximately  £1,560  and she had regular financial  commitments of around 
£300. I think that had Ferratum asked her for details of her regular expenditure shed  most  
likely have given these  figures. Against her declared income of £1,934, this implied 
disposable income of £74. This wouldve been  insufficient to cover the loan repayment of 
£282 and so I think that this loan was unaffordable.
loan two
The bank statements show that Mrs Cs monthly income and expenditure remained similar to 
that outlined above, with disposable income  of £76. The required repayment for loan two 
was £460 and this, too, would appear to be unaffordable.
Ref: DRN63880714loan three
Once again, regular income  and expenditure were fairly consistent with the previous 
position. But I can also see that, at the time loan three was given, Mrs C also had to make 
repayments totalling £449 for other short term loans in the following month. This left her with 
no disposable income with which to service  Ferratums loan repayment of £372.
loan four
At the time loan four was made, Mrs Cs actual income in the prior month had been £2,129 
and her regular  expenditure was £1,825. I cant see any other  short term loans outstanding 
at this time and so she was left with disposable  income of £304. This, however, was not 
enough to repay Ferratums loan at £369.
loan five 
Mrs Cs actual income in the month before loan five was £2,327  and, after regular 
expenditure of around £1,800, she was left with approximately £527. Whilst she had an 
apparently higher level of disposable  income, it was still insufficient  to meet Ferratums loan 
repayment of £556.
In all of the above circumstances I think that, had Ferratum undertaken the better checks  
that I consider to be proportionate, it wouldve seen that none  of its loans were sustainably  
affordable to Mrs C. As such, I think it was wrong to provide the loans and so it must  pay 
some compensation to Mrs C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Ferratum UK Ltd 
to:
-refund all interest  and charges applied  to all loans;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about these loans from Mrs Cs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum  UK Ltd to take off tax from this interest. 
Ferratum UK Ltd must give Mrs C a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6388071