K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains about a mortgage she took out through Susan Lytle,  trading  as The Lytle 
Group, a mortgage broker. She says, in summary:
-her ex-husband  pressured her into taking out the mortgage;
-her ex-husband  received the money from the mortgage, and the broker knew  this but did 
nothing to protect her interests  it didnt  give her any advice and gave wrong  information  
to the lender; and
-the mortgage was unsuitable because she had no income and couldnt afford it.
Ms W also complains  that the broker told her ex-husband about her complaint, and this has 
caused her additional stress and anxiety.
background
Ms W took out the mortgage in 2008.  It was a re-mortgage  to repay her existing lender and 
borrow around an additional £150,000. The mortgage came to around £400,000 and was 
taken on an interest-only  basis  over a term of ten years  so it was due to be repaid in 2018.
Ms W says she was very vulnerable in 2008 and her ex-husband made her agree to the 
mortgage under duress. She says she had no direct communication with the broker  and 
received no advice. She found out years later that the additional borrowing was used  to 
repay her ex-husbands business  debts,  which she had known nothing about.  She also says 
her ex-husband had told her when she took the mortgage that he would repay the mortgage 
at the end of the term but, in 2017,  following a demand for payment from another lender, she 
found out he had no means  to do so. In June 2018,  she complained  to the lender and in May 
2019 to the broker.
The broker  said Ms W was too late to complain. I took a different view,  given the 
circumstances in this case, so I issued a decision saying we could consider the complaint. 
One of our investigators  then looked into the complaint. He didnt  recommend that it should 
be upheld. He thought that based on the information  the broker had, the mortgage  appeared 
to have been affordable for Ms W and she had a plausible plan in place to repay it at the end 
of the term. He also found nothing to suggest  the broker should reasonably  have known that 
Ms W was taking  out the mortgage under duress, or to show that it colluded with her ex-
husband. The investigator found there was no evidence other than Ms Ws recollection of the 
call between  the broker and her ex-husband about  this complaint, and he didnt recommend 
any award for it.
Ms W didnt  accept that conclusion. She said she couldnt afford the mortgage and she still 
thought the broker should have verified her income and repayment vehicle but it failed  to do 
so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The brokers  role here was to advise Ms W about  a suitable mortgage. As part of that advice, 
it had to consider  whether she could afford the mortgage.  The broker  says it met its 
Ref: DRN61730482obligations, but Ms W says it did not. She says she had no interaction with the broker at all 
and it colluded with her ex-husband to set up the mortgage, in order that her ex-husband 
could pay off his business debts.
Ms W explains that she was in a very difficult and vulnerable position in 2008 and that, while  
she and her ex-husband had divorced nearly  15 years earlier,  he still had a strong  hold over 
her and coerced  her into taking out the mortgage. She says this was on the basis that he 
would repay  it at the end of the term, and she complained when it became clear that he 
couldnt afford to do so. 
The broker,  on the other hand,  says Ms W is an intelligent and astute businessperson and 
knew exactly what she was doing.  It has provided  recent Land Registry  records and told us 
that Ms W sold a substantial part of the land forming part of her property in 2017 to her son 
for £500,000   but didnt  use it to repay  the mortgage, and she has also made arrangements 
to sell other parts of the property  to a developer.
I cant be sure about exactly what happened between the various parties  involved  and, 
unlike a court, I cant cross-examine the parties  or witnesses. Its not for me to make a 
finding about Ms Ws business acumen.  But I do need to determine whether the broker gave  
suitable advice.  As part of that determination, I have to decide whether it knew  about, or 
should have presumed that, Ms W was under any duress or undue  influence when she 
agreed to the mortgage in 2008. If so, it should have  taken extra  precautions. 
For the reasons  Ill go on to explain,  I dont find that the broker  gave unsuitable advice,  or 
that it knew about or should have presumed that Ms W was under any undue  influence or 
duress. It is important to be clear, though, that mortgage regulation has changed a great  
deal since 2008,  and I cant fairly  hold the broker to current  standards.
Theres no dispute that Ms W knew she was taking out a mortgage. She remembers signing 
something in 2008, she received documents about the mortgage over the years, and there  
are notes on the lenders  records of her direct contact with it during the mortgage application 
process and since. 
The broker  says it now has only limited documents about the sale of the mortgage.  I can see 
why Ms W is suspicious of that, but I dont find it surprising given that the sale took place  
more than ten years before she complained. There is no fact find available,  but I have  seen 
an electronic copy of the completed application that was submitted to the lender, and a copy  
of a supplementary questionnaire  saying Ms W planned to repay the interest-only mortgage 
by selling some land. The questionnaire includes a signature which  looks like Ms Ws but 
which is quite faint.
Ms W has questioned the quality of the signature on this questionnaire. She says the lender 
doesnt have a copy of the questionnaire  and she has no recollection of it. She also says that 
selling land to repay the mortgage was never  a credible repayment plan as the agricultural  
land she owns wouldnt have sold for anywhere near enough in either  2008  or 2018.
Ms W also says much  of the information on the application is wrong and the broker didnt 
check any of it. She says she had never worked  for her ex-husbands company and she in 
fact had no income. The application said Ms W was self-employed  in her ex-husbands 
business, which had been trading for more than ten years, and she had a monthly income of 
more than £5,000. She was the sole owner of her property, around  £250,000 of the new 
mortgage was to repay her existing mortgage and the extra  £150,000  was for home 
Ref: DRN61730483improvements. The application also had an ISA listed as the mortgage  repayment vehicle, at 
a monthly cost of £298, with a maturity  date just before  the end of the mortgage term.
Its not clear whether  the broker  checked  Ms Ws income. It appears not to have done so 
given that the tax calculation reports Ms W has since provided show that her income was far 
less than that stated  on the application. Importantly, though,  the broker  didnt necessarily  
have to check. 
The Mortgage Conduct of Business rules (MCOB) which the broker had to follow  said in 
2008, at MCOB 4.7.8G:  A firm may generally  rely on any information provided by the 
customer for the purposes of MCOB 4.7.4R(1)(a) unless, taking a common-sense view of 
this information,  it has reason  to doubt it. MCOB 4.7.4R(1)(a)  says, in summary, that a 
mortgage will be suitable if the customer can afford  to enter  into it based on what  the broker  
knows about their circumstances.
Ms W was registered as a partner  in her ex-husbands  business  (although  she says she 
didnt know that in 2008) and thats recorded  in her tax calculation reports. She already  had 
a mortgage in her sole name and was sole owner of the property and land. The loan-to-value 
ratio of the new mortgage was around 33%. The purpose of the extra borrowing was given 
as home  improvements  and not to pay off Ms Ws ex-husbands business  debts.
Against this background, I dont think there was necessarily anything to have alerted the 
broker to the mortgage  it recommended  being unsuitable or unaffordable. While the papers 
refer to two plans for repaying the mortgage  at the end of the term (the sale of land and an 
ISA), I dont consider  either  of those to have been  implausible. I also note that the monthly  
mortgage payments  were  maintained over the years  and, in all the circumstances, I dont 
consider the brokers  recommendation  was unsuitable.
Ms W also says the mortgage  arrangements were made behind her back  and without her 
involvement; all she did was sign one document, under duress,  without reading  it. However,  I 
think that sits at odds with some  of the evidence.  In particular, Ive seen a letter  Ms W wrote 
to the lender in April 2016 setting out her plans for repaying the mortgage at the end of the 
term: she said she had received planning  permission to extend one of the properties on her 
land, having separated the titles to the various  properties. She said she was then planning to 
sell one property in 2016 and another in 2017,  and repay the mortgage from the proceeds.  
Ms W has said she did write that letter, and she hasnt said she was coerced or pressured 
into doing so. So it seems she had given some  thought to repayment, and these were quite 
detailed plans involving separating titles which she since appears largely to have gone 
ahead with. There is nothing in the letter about  Ms Ws expectation that her ex-husband 
would ultimately repay the mortgage.  Against this background, I think it likely that this 
expectation was a matter between them, rather than an arrangement  the broker knew  about.
The broker  says it didnt  know about any risk of undue influence  or Ms W being  under  any 
pressure from a third party, and it would have done things differently had it known. In the 
circumstances, I find no particular reason for it to have supposed Ms W might have been 
vulnerable or under  undue influence  from someone else.   
Finally, Ms W says the broker  phoned her ex-husband about  this complaint, it broke data 
protection law in doing so, and this had a significant  adverse  impact  on her. The broker  says 
it has no record of this having happened. The investigator made no recommendation in this 
Ref: DRN61730484respect, and Ms W hasnt added any more  about  it or provided the phone records she said 
she could get  so I make  no award  or direction.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6173048