K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Northern Bank Limited  (Northern Bank) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G bought the policy when he took out a loan in 2005. At the same  time he was sold a 
single premium PPI policy.  The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
If Mr G had made a successful claim the policy would  have  paid out for up to 12 months  for 
an unemployment claim and, in respect of claims for accident and sickness, it could 
potentially pay out until the end of the loan term.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr G had to agree to take 
it out. Mr G told us that he was led to believe  the policy was compulsory. Where  there  is a 
dispute about what happened  such as this, Ill base my decision on what  I think is more 
likely.
Ive been given a copy of the Fixed-Sum Loan  Agreement which  was completed at the time. 
On this form there is a section about PPI and a box to tick if the cover is required.  I can see 
that on Mr Gs form the box has been ticked and he has signed  below  this to confirm  his 
selection. If Mr G didnt  want  to take out the PPI he could  have  left the box blank.
In addition to this I have also seen a copy of the quotation for the loan which was issued 
prior to Mr G signing  the agreement mentioned above. On this document it describes the PPI 
as an optional product and so I think Mr G would have  known  he didnt have to take out this 
cover.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Northern Bank made  it clear  Mr G 
didnt have to take out the policy and Mr G chose to have  it, knowing  he could refuse it if he 
didnt want it  even  if that is not his recollection  now.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover - Ive noted he wasnt entitled to any sick pay and 
he had no other means with which to make his repayments if he wasnt  earning.
Ref: DRN64224462Mr G has told us he was self-employed when  he took out the cover and therefore it wasnt 
suitable for him. Ive checked  the policy terms and conditions and cover was provided  for 
anyone who was self-employed  and, when reviewing the claims criteria, I cant  see that it 
would have been any more difficult for him to claim,  compared to someone who was 
employed. So I still think this was policy could have  provided a useful benefit to him.
Mr Gs representatives have said this type of PPI was unsuitable for Mr G and that Northern 
Bank should have  advised him to take out a policy which was paid on a monthly  basis, rather 
than one that incurred interest. But Northern Bank has told us this was the only available  
policy for this type of loan and so it couldnt  have offered him any other product. And, as I 
mentioned previously, it was made  clear  that the policy was optional  and so Mr G didnt have 
to take out the PPI if he didnt want to. 
From what  we know Mr G would  have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if Northern Bank thought about this when it 
recommended the policy, or if it explained the situation clearly to Mr G. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest he thought hed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the 
policy wasnt right for him  or that better information about this wouldve stopped  him buying  
it.
And the credit agreement  shows  the cost of the policy   including  the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mr G would have 
understood how much the PPI would cost if he kept the policy for its full term. And I think he 
agreed to take the PPI knowing the cost. Given how long the policy could have paid out for, 
if Mr G made a successful claim its likely he couldve got back quite a bit more  than he paid 
for it. So, overall, I dont  think Mr G has lost out as a result of anything  that Northern  Bank 
mightve done wrong.
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Northern Bank didnt tell 
Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what he has said about  being able to 
ask his wife to help him make the repayments. Whilst I appreciate  that his wife would have 
wanted to help, support from others  cant be guaranteed as their circumstances can also 
change, meaning  they are unable to provide  such financial  assistance.  So this point  doesnt  
change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
Ref: DRN64224463But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6422446