K820x#14summary of complaint
Mrs W is unhappy about the way esure Insurance Limited (esure)  dealt  with a claim she 
made on her car insurance policy. She says they caused delays  in getting her car repaired 
and that the repairs done were of substandard quality, which  had to be rectified.
Reference to Mrs W includes her husband Mr W.
background to complaint
Mrs Ws car was damaged in an accident  with another  car and her car was taken to one of 
esures approved  repairers (AR). She says the car was taken to AR on the 17 May 2018 and 
she didnt get it back until 8 October 2018.  During this time she says she had to visit AR on 
several occasions as the car was not ready to be collected. When Mrs W finally picked  up 
the car, the tailgate had a scratch  and there  was an issue  with the central locking.
esure initially compensated Mrs W £200  in August 2018 for the issues  she had experienced 
on one occasion.  And they paid her a further  £150  in November 2018. During the time the 
car was being repaired, esure  arranged  for Mrs W to have a hire car. They  also agreed that 
Mrs W could arrange to have the repairs to the scratch  on the tailgate carried out and they 
would refund the cost to her.
Mrs W brought her complaint to our service  as she was unhappy with the amount of 
compensation offered by esure.
Our adjudicator thought the total compensation of £350 was fair and reasonable, considering 
the circumstances of Mrs Ws complaint.  Mrs W wasnt happy with this as she thought the 
compensation offered should  be higher, taking into account all the time shes spent trying to 
resolve this matter. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a decision.
Since then,  in September 2019,  esure  wrote  to Mrs W saying that they would be willing to 
pay Mrs W £60 compensation  for loss of use of a car, for the one day that the car will be in 
for the scratch repairs, and for not responding to her issues sooner. But they said that a car 
hire would not be covered under her policy. 
On 31 October 2019, Mrs W told esure  that central  locking  was resolved as she said it 
wasnt occurring anymore  and she provided an invoice for the cost of getting the scratch on 
the tailgate repaired. She also advised esure that she would source  her own hire car for the 
day, which she said would cost her around £300.  And she said she thought  esure should 
refund this cost.  
esure didnt  think this was fair as they said they could source a car for a lot less than that. 
And on 12 November  2019, esure paid her £230.68.  £162 was for the repair and a further 
£68.68 which was what they said it would  cost them to provide  a like-for-like replacement  
car. They also said they were willing to provide a hire car if she wanted  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN66629802Mrs W isnt happy with the delay in getting  her car repaired by AR. I can see that the 
accident was in May 2018, but she didnt get the car back until October 2018  a total of 
around five months.  I think this was an unreasonable  length of time, and its accepted that 
AR should have  completed the repairs sooner. 
I cant be certain when the car wouldve been repaired had everything gone smoothly. But 
from what Ive seen,  I think  its most  likely AR couldve reasonably  repaired the car in about 
two months. I understand Mrs W had to visit the AR on numerous occasions. Im conscious  
that Mrs W was given  a hire car throughout the time AR was repairing her car, so she wasnt 
without a car during this time. However, I think this would  have  caused  her some significant  
distress and inconvenience when having  to set time aside  to visiting AR and then finding  out 
on numerous occasions that the car was not ready to be collected.  esure  has paid her a total 
of £350 compensation for these delays. And I think this is in line with what I would have 
awarded.
I note that when Mrs W picked up the car from the AR there was a scratch on the tailgate 
caused by AR, and she also said there  was an issue with the central locking. Mrs W has 
since said that central locking is resolved as its not occurring anymore. So I dont think 
esure needs to do anything  further in this respect.  
Mrs W has provided an invoice for the cost of getting the scratch on the tailgate repaired and 
she asked esure to provide her with a hire car. esure at first didnt want to provide her with a 
hire car as they said the terms of the policy didnt provide  for a hire car. But they said they 
would pay her £10 compensation  for not having access  to her car for a day. So Mrs W said 
she would  arrange  a hire car for the day at a cost of around £300 which  she wanted esure to 
cover. 
I think it was unreasonable for esure  to say that she wasnt entitled to a car hire, but I also 
think it was also unreasonable for them to cover the £300 as it wasnt proportionate to the 
loss. On 12 November  2019, esure paid Mrs W £230.68. They explained  £162  was for the 
repair to the scratch  and the additional  £68.68 was a contribution towards  the cost of a hire 
car. esure has since said that they paid Mrs W this as they thought  shed had the repairs  
done, which she hasnt.  So they said that if Mrs W returns the £68.68 they paid her for the 
hire car, theyll provide  her with a like for like hire car for the day. I think this is fair and 
reasonable so Mrs W should get in contact with esure if she would like esure to do so. 
Also in September 2019, esure paid Mrs W a further  £60 for loss of use of a car, for the one 
day that the car will be in for the scratch repairs, and for not responding to her issues 
sooner. Considering the circumstances of this complaint  I think this offer is reasonable.
Mrs W thinks that there should be a process whereby AR contacts esure in the event of a 
problem while they are repairing a car. But this service is designed to resolve  problems on 
individual cases and were not a regulator.  We dont punish businesses for their mistakes or 
tell them  how to change  their processes or systems. So this decision wont  be able to deal 
with all of her concerns.  But I think what esure has agreed to do to resolve  her complaint is 
fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of this complaint. 
Whilst I realise that my decision  will come as a disappointment to Mrs W, Im not asking 
esure to pay any further compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused to her. 
my decision
Ref: DRN66629803For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that esure Insurance  Limited should hire 
Mrs W a like for like car for the day if she choses to return the £68.68.  esure Insurance 
Limited has also offered  to pay Mrs W £410 in total for the distress  and inconvenience  they 
caused her. I understand they already paid this to her, but if they havent  already  done so 
they should pay this directly  to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6662980