K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about their secured loan with Prestige Finance Limited. Theyre  
unhappy that the loan term has come to an end and theres still a balance outstanding.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out this loan in August 2006. They borrowed £11,275 over a 13-year 
term, which gave a contractual monthly payment of £159.19. Mr and Mrs P missed  the very 
first payment  due, and things didnt improve. They were almost constantly in arrears until 
January 2014.  Since then theyve been overpaying slightly each month.
Mr and Mrs P questioned the outstanding  balance in 2018 as they were unhappy that they 
still owed so much money.  Prestige  didnt uphold their complaint.
Our investigator said Prestige hadnt done  anything wrong. He said the account had been 
arrears for so long a lot of extra interest and costs had been  incurred.  He was satisfied 
Prestige had kept Mr and Mrs P informed  of the status of their account. Mr and Mrs P didnt 
agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs P wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read 
and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked or 
answered.
Looking at the loan statements issued over the years, its apparent that the balance hasnt 
been reducing at the rate it needed to if it was to be fully repaid on time.  The figures on the 
loan agreement were  based on all the payments being made  in full and on time, but thats 
not happened. Mr and Mrs P were kept informed about the status  of their account by way of 
regular statements and letters detailing the payments and charges incurred.
It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service to provide an auditing  service or carry 
out a forensic  analysis  of loan accounts. But Ive looked at the transaction history and theres 
nothing on there that appears unusual or incorrect. Whilst  Mr and Mrs P have caught up with 
their missed  payments, each time a payment was missed or made late extra interest was 
incurred. There have  also been fees and charges  added due to those missed  payments. All 
the fees, charges and additional interest that were added to the account  have rolled  up to 
increase the balance.
Of course,  its open to Mr and Mrs P to instruct an independent suitably qualified 
professional to audit  their account. But that would have  to be at their expense  though  if 
errors were found to their financial detriment, they could complain about them and their costs 
Ref: DRN64357732in discovering them  could be taken into account in putting matters right. But as things stand,  
Im not persuaded that Prestige has mis-managed their account.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6435773