K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that on the sale of her property, Elderbridge Limited provided incorrect  
redemption information  to her solicitors.  
She had two loans  with Elderbridge, one secured  and one unsecured.  When  her solicitors 
requested a redemption statement for the secured loan, Elderbridge provided the settlement 
figure for the unsecured  loan. 
This resulted in a charge remaining on the property after completion, which her solicitors had 
to settle to give title. As a result  of this error ownership of the debt was passed to the 
solicitors.
background
Miss C had two loans from Elderbridge. One was secured on her house, the other  was 
unsecured. In 2017 she sold the house. On 23 June 2017 her solicitors wrote to Elderbridge:
We act on behalf of the above-named Borrower in connection with the proposed sale of the 
above Property. Please let us know the amount that will be required to redeem  this Mortgage 
at the end of next month for information purposes  only for all accounts  held with you secured 
against this property.
Elderbridge replied on 28 June 2017  giving a figure of £142.96 valid until 26 July 2017. 
However this figure was the amount due on the unsecured loan, not the amount required to 
redeem the mortgage. On Miss Cs complaint to Elderbridge it acknowledged that it had 
made an error and had only issued a figure for the unsecured loan. It said it would  pay 
Miss C compensation  of £200.
Miss C wasnt  happy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She said the error 
had resulted in the charge  remaining on the property and her solicitors having to redeem  it. 
Ownership of the (previously) secured loan had passed to the solicitors. As a result Miss C 
lost the option of making monthly payments and court action was taken against her.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Miss Cs complaint be upheld.  He considered the 
payment of £200  was sufficient.
He said that if Elderbridge  hadnt  made the error Miss C would still have been liable for the 
debt. If her solicitors had received a redemption figure for the secured loan it would have 
been repaid from the sale proceeds. In addition, if her solicitors hadnt  settled the secured 
loan she would still have  been liable for the debt and would have had to reach an agreement  
with Elderbridge to repay it. 
Therefore, it would appear that she hadnt  suffered  a financial loss as result of Elderbridges  
error. Instead of having to settle the debt with Elderbridge she now had a debt to her 
solicitors which she needed to settle.
Miss C wasnt  happy with this and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case. She said 
that when her solicitors  settled the outstanding balance, the loan debt transferred to them. 
This took place without  her permission. None of this would have occurred if Elderbridge had 
given the correct information  in the first place.
Ref: DRN62953152As a result, shed had to endure an ongoing court case as her solicitors werent prepared to 
allow her to continue  to pay by instalments and demanded the full balance. Shed also 
incurred court costs  of £941.00, so she had suffered  a financial loss, and her credit record 
had been severely  affected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Elderbridge made an error but that doesnt mean that Miss C gets her mortgage loan repaid 
free of charge. The solicitors didnt make  an error  but they had to repay  the loan, presumably 
because theyd given  the buyers  solicitors an undertaking to do so. The effect is that Miss C 
now owes the money to the solicitors instead of Elderbridge.
In her response to the adjudicator dated 7 December 2018 Miss C said the solicitors  werent 
prepared to allow her to continue to pay by instalments and had demanded  payment  of the 
full balance. But she didnt say what happened following that demand, so I asked  her to 
supply copies of the court documents, and the correspondence with the court  and the 
solicitors relating to the court case which she mentioned. Also to clarify how and why she 
had incurred court costs  of £941  and to supply copies of any documents relating to this.
In response Miss C provided  a court order made  on 16 October  2018  allowing her to pay by 
instalments of £200 per month.  This doesnt sit easily with her letter to the adjudicator of 
7 December 2018 saying shed been  required to pay the full balance. Her letter says nothing  
about the courts  instalment order.
Miss C also provided a letter from the solicitors dated 24 October 2018 in which  they said:
As confirmed by the judgment, although you have been provisionally ordered to pay by 
instalments of £200 per month,  it is open either party to object  to the decision that has been 
made within 16 days of the judgment  being posted out and this may then lead to a hearing 
being listed to reconsider the matter.
As indicated  in previous correspondence  submitted to you and the court  we do not consider 
that instalments  in the sum of £200  per calendar  month are adequate and therefore  confirm 
that we will be making an application for the matter  to be reopened in the event that you will 
not voluntarily agree  to increase the payments to at least in the region of £500 per calendar  
month.
However Miss C didnt tell me what the outcome  was, nor whether there had been a hearing  
to decide the amount of the instalments. And she didnt tell me how and why she had 
incurred court costs  of £941, which considerably exceed the costs recoverable pursuant  to a 
default judgment.
Miss C did provide a screen shot showing  that the judgment had been registered, but 
nothing to show how or why litigation had arisen with this result.
Therefore on the evidence I have, Im not persuaded that Miss C lost the option of making 
monthly payments  which would have been  lower,  and Im unable  to conclude  that she has 
suffered a financial loss.
Ref: DRN62953153In its final response letter  dated 13 October 2018  Elderbridge said it would be issuing a 
cheque for the £200.00 compensation within 10 working days. On the assumption that it did 
so, I dont require  it to do any more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6295315