K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that the service he received from Virgin Money  plc (Virgin) with regard to his 
request to transfer  a cash ISA fell short of that which he expected to receive, and as a result 
he has lost interest and incurred a penalty.
background
Mr E had two fixed rate Cash ISA accounts  with Virgin. ISA A was due to mature on the 
24 January 2020  and ISA B on the 24 May 2018. In June 2018,  Mr E said he gave 
instructions to Paragon  Bank (Paragon) to request  a transfer  from Virgin to Paragon  of the 
entire contents of ISA B. 
Paragon then made the request to Virgin on the 14 June 2018  which  Virgin received and 
accepted on the 18 June  2018. However  the request Paragon made to Virgin  was to transfer 
ISA A not ISA B. Virgin duly complied  with the request but it resulted in a loss of interest and 
a penalty for Mr E because of the early closure of ISA A. 
Mr E is unhappy that Virgin didnt  inform him they were closing ISA A, but Virgin  said they 
did try to contact him before the transfer,  on the 18 June 2018, in order  to bring the penalty 
to his attention.  But the call wasnt answered  and so Virgin  complied with the transfer 
request on the 19 June  2018. 
Virgin did not accept  they had done  anything wrong  and declined Mr Es request to 
reimburse him for the lost interest and penalty.
Mr E was unhappy with that response  and so an adjudicator from this service looked  into the 
complaint but didnt  think Virgin had done anything wrong. Mr E disagreed  with our 
adjudicators view and so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  I should make it clear  that the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  appropriate. My aim 
is to ensure a fair and reasonable outcome is achieved.
I can entirely accept that Mr E believes the instructions  he gave to Paragon  were to request 
the transfer of ISA B. I have not seen any evidence which  would corroborate that, but 
regardless of whether he did or didnt, it is a fact that Paragon did make a request for the 
transfer of ISA A. There  has therefore been an unfortunate mistake somewhere.
But Virgin played  no part in the request process  and so must be entirely blameless. I cannot 
say whether there has been a mistake  on the part of Paragon or Mr E or both, but it cannot 
have occurred by reason  of anything Virgin did or did not do.
Ref: DRN61365702When Virgin received  the request they were bound to act upon it in accordance  with the 
terms and conditions of the ISA account. The issue is whether Virgin ought to have 
effectively double checked with Mr E before  they carried out what  on the face of it was a 
legitimate transfer  request. 
In my view I do not think it is proportionate for Virgin to have to double check their 
customers requests, since if they were  to do that routinely it would likely antagonise some of 
their customers who might be upset that their request had not been acted upon in 
accordance with their instructions.
I accept that Virgin did attempt to speak with Mr E with what they have  described  as a 
courtesy call. I know Mr E disputes  that attempts were made,  but there is no evidence  to 
contradict Virgins assertions. And I have seen evidence  in the form of Virgins  screen  notes 
that they did try to call him at 12:52 on the 18 June 2018. 
So Im satisfied that Virgin have acted fairly here, because  I dont  think  they were required to 
call Mr E prior to completing  the transfer, but they nevertheless tried as a matter  of courtesy 
to do so anyway.
What I need to decide is whether Virgin has acted  fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Mr E, and I think  they have. They responded to Paragons properly made request to transfer 
ISA A by carrying out those instructions. As such I cannot say that Virgin has done anything  
wrong. 
I know Mr E will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. Im not satisfied that Virgin  has treated Mr E  
unfairly, so Im not going  to ask it to do anything further and Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Virgin  Money plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6136570