K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  them  a fee-paying  
Club Lloyds Silver account, which was sold to them in October  2016.
They say that it was presented as being  the only option available to them;  they werent told 
about fee-free  accounts; and that they were unaware of the benefits  that came  with the 
account.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and they didnt think the account had been 
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used that to help me 
decide the outcome on this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the account was mis-sold.  I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs H say that the Club Lloyds Silver account was presented to them as being their 
only option and that they werent made aware  of fee-free  accounts. However,  Lloyds has 
provided evidence  to show that Mr and Mrs H both held sole fee-free accounts with Lloyds 
since June 2009  and May 2011 respectively. 
Lloyds has also provided a copy of the documentation it says was discussed with Mr and 
Mrs H during the sale of the account.  The documentation is specific  to Mr and Mrs H so I 
think its likely to reflect what was discussed with them at the time. And it says that various  
options were discussed  with Mr and Mrs H, including a fee-free Classic account, a Silver 
account with the option  of the Club Lloyds  bolt-on package (which  they opted for), and also 
a more expensive  Platinum account   which it says they said no to.
Therefore, I am satisfied  that Mr and Mrs H were aware fee-free accounts were  available  to 
them and that they didnt  have to choose  a packaged account  if they didnt want  one.
From what  I can see the account  was sold on a non-advised basis. This means  Lloyds didnt 
have to check if it was right for the consumers. But even if it had been sold on an advised  
basis, it does not look to have been an inappropriate recommendation. I say that because it 
appears that Mr and Mrs H had a need  for travel  insurance and breakdown cover and the 
Silver account was the cheapest packaged account to offer those two products.
Lloyds had to make sure it gave  Mr and Mrs H the important information  about the packaged  
account so that they could decide  for themselves whether to take one out. And although Mr 
and Mrs H say they were not told about  the benefits,  the documents Lloyds has provided 
indicates that the benefits were discussed  in some detail with them  and a comparison was 
made between the Silver and Platinum accounts to see which  account  most closely  met their 
needs. And this led Mr and Mrs H to chose  the cheaper Silver account  with the Club Lloyds 
bolt-on added.
Ref: DRN60899772As such,  I think that Mr and Mrs H were  given enough information  about the account to at 
least know what benefits it came  with and how much  it cost.
The point of sale documentation shows that the key terms and exclusions were explained to 
Mr and Mrs H during  the sale of the account. However, I accept  its possible that Lloyds did 
not give them all of the important information about  the account and the benefits that it came 
with. But Ive not seen anything about  their circumstances that makes me think Mr and Mrs 
H wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Club Lloyds  Silver account, had they been 
given even more  information about  it.
So taking everything into account, I dont think it was mis-sold. I therefore  think  it would be 
inappropriate to require  Lloyds to refund Mr and Mrs H the fees theyve paid for the Club 
Lloyds Silver account.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6089977