K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 
alongside a credit card. Miss H says Barclays  Bank UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, mis-
sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Miss H says she was made  to feel she had to take out the PPI in order to get the card.  Ive 
considered what  Miss H has said but Ive also considered that the PPI was sold a long time 
ago, around 22 years  ago. Miss H hasnt told us what was said at the time which made  her 
feel like she had to take out the PPI and Ive not seen any evidence  to support this. But I 
wasnt present at the meeting that took place, so I dont know exactly what  was discussed.  
And so I have to make  a decision based  on what I do have and what  I think is more likely to 
have happened  in the circumstances. 
Barclays say it presented the PPI as optional to Miss H and it wouldnt have influenced her in 
any way to take out the policy. Its provided a copy of the credit  card application form which  
show there was both a yes and no option  for PPI - and the yes box has been ticked. 
There is also nothing on this application form which suggested the PPI was compulsory or 
that taking out the cover  would improve her chances  of getting the credit card.
So while I dont doubt what  Miss H has said are her honest recollections  of the sale,  without 
any evidence to support  this I think its more likely  than not that Barclays made  it clear  that 
Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this.
Miss H says she wasnt given any advice or recommendation to take out the PPI. But 
Barclays says it did advise her to take out the policy. As it stands there  isnt enough 
information to make a finding on this point. However, it is not necessary for me make  a 
conclusive determination on this point. This is because I have not found that the policy  was 
unsuitable for Miss H for the reasons  set out below. So, even if I assume advice was given, it 
does not affect  the outcome of this complaint.
As an advised sale Barclays wouldve had to take reasonable steps to ensure the PPI was 
suitable for her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover 
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Miss H says she had sufficient sick pay and savings to make her repayments had she 
suddenly been  unable to work. So she didnt need the policy. But Miss H has provided 
inconsistent evidence about her sick pay and savings and from what  I have been told Im not 
persuaded Miss H had sufficient other  means to make the policy unsuitable for her. In any 
event the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Miss Hs other  means and for up to 12 months. 
Ref: DRN67201312This means  any savings  she did have  wouldve  remained  intact for its intended purpose.  
And any sick pay couldve been used for other  expenses.  So I still think  the policy was 
suitable for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H. But 
Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Miss H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6720131