K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Nationwide Building Society didnt limit a direct debit payment to 
their utility supplier.  
Background
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs M set up a direct debit instruction  to pay for their utilities. Payments 
of £68.87 were  collected in July, August, September and October  2018.  In November 2018 
Mr M contacted Nationwide as their utility supplier had said the monthly  payment was going 
to increase to £87.61. Mr M told Nationwide he didnt want  the increased  payment to be 
made. 
Nationwide responded but said it couldnt block or stop payments being  collected by direct  
debit. Mr and Mrs Ms utility supplier collected  £87.61 on 15 November 2018 and £84.35 on 
17 December 2018. 
Mr and Mrs M complained and Nationwide responded on 19 November 2018. Nationwide 
said it could only process a payment made  by direct debit as requested  by the party claiming 
it. Nationwide said it isnt able to edit a payment request. 
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service  and it was passed  to an investigator. 
Mr M said, under the Direct Debit Guarantee, Nationwide had failed to follow  his instructions 
to limit the amount his utility  supplier collected. The investigator didnt agree and said 
Nationwide had no control over the amount collected. The investigator  also said that Mr M 
hadnt asked Nationwide  to cancel the direct debit which  is why it continued  to be collected.  
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators  view so his complaint has been passed  to me 
to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr and Mrs M feel in this matter and I understand that they are 
concerned that Nationwide has acted  incorrectly by allowing their utility  supplier to collect 
increased payments  via direct debit without consent. Im very sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs M, but I think Nationwide  is correct when it says it cant  amend a payment 
request thats  received via direct  debit. 
Mr and Mrs M have  sent us lots of useful information about how direct debits operate as well 
as the Direct Debit Guarantee. In Mr and Mrs Ms initial  submission they sent us some  
information about the difference  between a standing order  and a direct debit. 
The information Mr and Mrs M sent us says a standing order  is An instruction to your bank to 
make payments to a person/organisation. It goes on to say You instruct  your bank. You 
decide when and how much to pay, and tell your bank to do this. 
The information about direct debits is different. It says a direct debit gives An authorisation 
for a person/organisation to take payments  from your account when they are due. It goes on 
to say Regular payments  of variable or fixed amounts, like mortgage payments, utility  bills or 
other bills based  on usage. 
Ref: DRN68986382The above  information about  the two types of payments shows theres a difference in the 
way each is set up and collected.  With a standing order,  the bank account holder  is in 
charge of the amount  the bank pays.  Its an instruction to make a specific  payment at a 
particular time. But a direct debit  can vary in both amount and frequency  of collection. By 
agreeing to make payments via direct debit Mr and Mrs M gave consent for their utility 
supplier to take payments directly from their account. And direct debit amounts can vary 
which is demonstrated by the fact the December 2018 payment was slightly lower than the 
previous months.
Nationwide said it couldnt amend  or edit a direct  debit  payment request and I agree thats  
correct. Nationwide  isnt party  to Mr and Mrs Ms utility suppliers decision to increase its 
prices. If Mr and Mrs M are unhappy  with the amount their utility supplier has taken they will 
need to discuss  that directly. 
Mr M says the Direct Debit  Guarantee  meant Nationwide wasnt  allowed  to increase their 
payments. But the guarantee  says if an error  is made with the direct  debit  the account holder 
is entitled to an immediate refund. It doesnt  say the account holder can limit the amount 
thats collected in advance. And there  doesnt  appear to have been an error in the way the 
payment was collected other than Mr Ms statement  that it was higher than he agreed  to. But 
as Ive said above, thats something Mr and Mrs M need to address with their utility supplier, 
its not a situation thats covered under  the Direct Debit  Guarantee. Again, Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I havent  found anything to show Nationwide  has made a 
mistake or failed to meet the terms of the Direct  Debit Guarantee. 
I can see that the payments to the utility supplier did increase from November 2018  and that 
a further payment at a similar  level was collected in December 2018. I appreciate Nationwide 
doesnt appear to have  specifically told Mr M to cancel his instruction when he made  contact. 
But Mr M asked  Nationwide  to limit the amount  his utility supplier could collect, not cancel 
the payment all together. 
If Mr and Mrs M are concerned about payment increases in the future they have the option  
to cancel the direct debit  instruction and make payments via an alternative  method. Leaving 
the direct  debit instruction in place means the payment collected could vary again in the 
future. 
As Ive said above,  I can see how strongly  Mr and Mrs M feel in this case.  But Im satisfied 
Nationwide responded correctly when  it said it couldnt do anything to limit the amount 
Mr and Mrs Ms utility  supplier claimed via direct  debit  in November 2018. The Direct Debit  
Guarantee is in place  to protect customers if theres an error in the amount or way a 
payment is claimed.  But there doesnt  appear  to be an error here that falls within  the limits of 
the guarantee. 
Ive reviewed all the information  supplied by both parties. Having done so, Im satisfied 
Nationwide hasnt made a mistake  so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN68986383Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6898638