K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the amount  of time that it took HiFX Europe Limited to recall a 
payment he made to an overseas  account  in his name.  
background
At the end of February  2019, Mr K made a currency exchange through HiFX, for onward 
transmission to his credit card account,  held overseas. But the money didnt arrive  in Mr Ks 
credit card account.
Unhappy with the delay, in March  Mr K requested that HiFX initiate a recall of the funds. 
However, the funds  werent returned  to Mr Ks HiFX account until July. The returned funds 
had a 75 euro charge deducted  by the beneficiary  bank.
Mr K was unhappy with this. He felt that HiFX should have done  more to recall  the funds 
sooner. He also says that he was not able to get proper  updates  from HiFX when he chased 
these. He also feels that the charge  that was applied to the funds could have been avoided  
and so he shouldnt  have to pay it.
The case  was brought to our service. The investigator looked into the matter  and concluded 
that HiFX had acted fairly in transferring the funds as requested and initiating the recall.  He 
was also satisfied that HiFX had chased  the recall promptly and regularly and were not 
responsible for the charge that had been  applied. 
Mr K didnt agree. He remained of the opinion  that HiFX had not done enough to recall  his 
money promptly and felt its actions had led to him paying the charge. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive weighed up the evidence I have about  which of the businesses  in the process  is likely  to 
have caused the delay  and Ive reached  the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I 
appreciate what a frustrating and worrying  time this will have been for Mr K and I understand 
his concern about the amount of time it took for this money to be returned to him. 
The circumstances of the payment, being a transfer in Euros  to a country  outside  the 
European Economic  Area, mean that certain  provisions of the Payment  Services 
Regulations 2017 dont apply. This includes regulations dealing with the responsibilities of 
the payer in terms  of timely execution and assisting with recovery. However, as a matter of 
good practice I consider it reasonable to expect HiFX  to take steps to ensure  that payments 
are executed in line with the instructions they receive, that this is done within  a reasonable 
time and that reasonable attempts are made to trace and recover  payments as required  This 
includes making sure that its own bank  fulfils its side of the transaction. I think HiFX did this 
and Ill explain why. 
HiFX sent Mr Ks payment on 27 February  2019  using  the recipient details he provided. 
Whilst I understand that these funds werent applied to Mr Ks credit card account,  I do not 
believe that this was due to any error by HiFX. Noting the emails  Mr K has supplied  from his 
credit card provider, the evidence Ive seen is that the funds were  received by the credit card 
Ref: DRN68169602providers bank. At that stage, HiFX has no control  over whether the money is applied  to his 
personal account. Responsibility would usually  lie with the payees payment service  
provider. I further note that the terms and conditions of Mr Ks arrangements with HiFX say 
that they are not responsible for any delay  or withholding of payment by a bank. 
Mr K then chose to initiate  a recall of this payment on 11 March  2019. Had this recall been 
successful, I think this matter wouldve been  resolved very quickly  without much 
inconvenience to Mr J. However, it wasnt and the funds were not returned to Mr K for over 
four months. Whilst HiFX cannot guarantee a recall  would be successful,  I have looked  at 
whether they have  acted fairly  and appropriately  in attempting to assist Mr K. 
HiFX have shown that they requested  to recall the funds and then attempted to chase this 
request and find out what had happened on several occasions throughout this four-month 
period. I realise  that this delay will have been  very frustrating for Mr K, but looking  at things 
from both sides, its hard to see what more HiFX could have done. I dont think  it would be 
fair to ask them to compensate Mr K for the time it took for the funds to be returned. 
When the funds  were returned  by the beneficiary bank, without being applied  to Mr Ks 
account, 75 euros had been deducted.  Mr K has shown  that this was due to 25 Euros  being  
deducted as a fee for the funds being  returned  and 50 Euros deducted as an investigation 
fee. Mr K says that this investigation fee was applied because  the funds were  sent to the 
beneficiary bank  without enough information and that HiFX are responsible for it. 
The funds were returned with a message unable to apply.  However,  I havent  seen enough 
to conclude that the payment was initially sent with insufficient information. Although  the 
beneficiary bank  did request  further  information,  HiFX  have shown that they responded to 
this in a timely manner.  Such requests are often  for information required in addition to the 
payment transfer  details,  commonly to ensure compliance with relevant security  checks,  
rather than because of a deficiency in the original instruction. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  HiFX did all that it needed  to do both in sending the payment, and 
initiating and chasing the recall. I dont  find HiFX responsible for the transfer not being 
successful or the charge that was applied to the returned funds. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6816960