K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr R took out an unsecured personal  loan with Lloyds  in 1995. It seems  Lloyds  sold him a 
PPI policy  at around the same time. He paid a separate premium for it, which Lloyds says 
was just over £134. This was added to his main loan, which I understand was for £700,  and 
he paid interest on it. The loan and the PPI were set to last for one year.
The PPI policy meant Mr Rs loan repayments would be covered for up to the length of his 
loan if he made a successful unemployment, accident or sickness  claim.
Mr R says he didnt know PPI was attached  to his loan. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Rs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr R disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mr R he had a choice about  PPI and get his agreement to 
it. Mr R recollections  of what  happened arent detailed, which doesnt surprise me given how 
long ago it was. 
Lloyds doesnt  have a copy of the loan agreement Mr R wouldve signed  which  I also dont 
think is surprising given  how long ago things happened. But we do have a sample  of a loan 
agreement it says wouldve been used at the time for PPI sold in a branch meeting. I think  
its likely  this is representative  of what Mr R wouldve seen. Theres a section about PPI 
which is headed Optional Loan  Repayment Protection. There are two boxes next to this 
 Yes and No. 
From what  we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with personal loans in branch meetings at 
this time, I think its likely an adviser  discussed  PPI with Mr R. And I think its likely Mr R 
agreed to the PPI, knowing  he had a choice about  it, so the Yes to PPI box wouldve been 
selected on his loan agreement and thats why PPI was added  to his account.  I think if Mr R 
hadnt wanted PPI the No option wouldve been selected.
Ref: DRN66926522Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr R so it needed to make  sure it was right for him. 
Looking at the policy terms Lloyds says are likely  to have applied and what  Mr R says of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was right for him. I say this because:
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr R wasnt eligible for the cover. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think hed have  been caught by any of the main  
things the policy  wouldnt have covered. So I dont think  there was anything  to stop 
him claiming the full benefit  of the policy if hed needed to.
Mr R says hed have  got some sick pay through his work. But the PPI wouldve paid 
his monthly loan repayments on top of his sick pay and for longer than it lasted. It 
would also have  covered Mr Rs repayments  if he lost his job. So I think  the PPI gave 
Mr R useful protection.
Looking at the likely total cost of the cover  (including the interest hes likely  to have 
been charged by Lloyds) and at his likely  monthly loan repayment amount, if he 
made a claim the amount he couldve got back under the policy couldve been quite a 
bit more than he paid for it.
The policy didnt give Mr R a proportionate  refund of his PPI premium if he repaid the 
loan early and cancelled the PPI. But I cant see anything  to suggest this was his 
plan when he took out the loan and the PPI. So I havent seen anything to make me 
think the PPI wasnt  flexible enough for Mr R at the time he bought it.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr R information 
about the key features of the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading.  From  the sample 
loan agreement Ive got, it seems  the cost of both the loan and the policy over the term and 
the individual monthly repayments wouldve been  shown. There were, however, some  
failings, in that neither the total interest  on the PPI loan nor its total cost was shown.
Lloyds says the interest Mr R wouldve been  charged over the loan term is likely to have 
been around £12. Ive already said I think its likely Mr R agreed to buy the cover  and it was 
suitable for him. I dont think knowing more about  the amount  of interest hed be charged,  
which it seems  wouldnt  have significantly increased his borrowing, wouldve  stopped  him 
buying the PPI. So I dont  think  Mr R has lost out because of anything  Lloyds did wrong and 
so theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6692652