K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1987. Mr I says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold him the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Is case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold  because:
Ive seen  that Mr Is signed mortgage  application  form has a tick in the box to request 
MPPI. Mr I couldve proceeded with the mortgage application without this box being 
ticked if he didnt want the policy. So overall  I think YBS made it clear that Mr I didnt 
have to take out the MPPI  and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he cant remember this given Im looking at events  from more than thirty years  ago.
YBS didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr I so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr I got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible  the information YBS gave Mr I about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose  to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the MPPI was affordable. 
So I dont think better  information  about  the MPPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr I has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr I paid on his MPPI   and whether YBS treated  
him unfairly.  
YBS has told us that the commission for Mr Is MPPI  was less than half of what he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how YBS has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Is commission was less than half the cost of the MPPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
YBS treated  him unfairly. This means  it doesnt  need to pay Mr I back  any of the commission  
he paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Ref: DRN65122292Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6512229