K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that EURO Reiseversicherung AG (trading  as ETI International Travel 
Protection) unfairly  declined a claim for the cost of medical treatment he received whilst  
abroad.
background
On the 7 March  2018 Mr P purchased an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by ETI. 
This policy was effective from the 21 April 2018.
On the 3 November 2018  Mr P was taken  ill whilst  on a cruise. He felt unwell and was 
experiencing chest pains. The ships doctor  later referred him to hospital where he was 
diagnosed with unstable angina. 
ETI declined to cover the costs of his treatment because it said this condition  was directly 
linked to the excluded pre-existing medical conditions  noted on Mr Ps policy.  Mr P suffered  
from high blood  pressure and cholesterol, and ETI said it had confirmed these conditions  are 
known associated risks to angina. 
Mr Ps representative argued that he was not in fact suffering from unstable angina,  and 
provided ETI with a letter from a cardiologist consultant in the UK. The consultant  said they 
didnt think the medical  episode  Mr P had experienced was cardiac, and suspected it was 
related to a virus or something hed eaten.
ETI maintained its decision to decline the claim. Mr P felt this was unfair so he brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought ETI had treated Mr P fairly. He felt its policy  clearly  showed pre-
existing medical conditions werent covered.  And thought it was reasonable  for ETI to have 
based its decision on information provided  at the time of the condition rather than a later 
assessment. 
Mr P didnt accept these findings,  so the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to hear Mr P was taken unwell on his trip. I appreciate  this must have been very 
concerning for him and his wife. And Ive thought  carefully about whether it was unfair  for 
ETI to declined his claim  for the costs of this treatment. But, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
P, Ive reached the same conclusions  as our investigator did here.  Ill explain why.
Mr P declared a number  of pre-existing medical  conditions when he purchased his policy.  He 
was informed both over the telephone  and in writing that his policy would not provide cover  
for any claim  arising directly  or indirectly  from these conditions. 
Ref: DRN63409232The policy wording advises that;
We would not cover  you for any claim arising directly or indirectly from a pre-
existing medical condition unless:
you have declared  (when  we ask) ALL pre-existing medical conditions  to us; and
you have declared  (when  we ask) any changes to your health or prescribed medications; 
and we have accepted  the medical condition(s)  for insurance in writing.
And ETI has shown us a copy  of the medical declaration certificate  it sent to Mr P which 
stated:
As your pre-existing medical condition(s) has/have  been excluded and no additional 
premium taken, we must inform you that your travel insurance policy will not pay any claims 
that may arise either directly or indirectly as a result of these conditions,  any associated  
conditions, or any complications  thereof - including, but not limited to, the following 
conditions:
 Impaired  kidney function
 Joint replacement
 Abdominal  aortic aneurysm
 Peripheral vascular disease
 Angina
 Enlarged  heart
 Heart attack
 Heart failure
 Mini stroke
 Stroke
The hospital  treating Mr P issued a medical  report which advised that a provisional diagnosis  
of unstable angina  had been  made. And that Mr P had responded well to the treatment hed 
been given for this. The medical declaration certificate ETI issued Mr P clearly states that he 
wasnt covered for claims arising from angina. So I think ETIs initial  decision to decline his 
claim on 5 November 2018 was fair.
Mr Ps representative later submitted some new evidence to ETI in the form of a letter from a 
consultant cardiologist in the UK dated  27 November 2018. The consultant  advised  he had 
carried out an examination that day that was normal.  And said he didnt believe the episode 
Mr P had experienced in retrospect was cardiac and that if Mr P was suffering from unstable 
angina his ECG or blood tests would  have been abnormal, or hed have ongoing symptoms. 
Mr P feels  this shows that the treating hospital misdiagnosed him. And that ETI should 
therefore have  changed its decision and accepted his claim for the costs of medical 
treatment. 
I do appreciate Mr Ps frustration here. But whilst the consultant in the UK took a different 
view of the likely cause  of his illness some three weeks later, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for ETI to maintain its decision to decline  his claim in these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN63409233The fact remains that Mr P was treated for unstable angina. The treating hospitals report 
makes no reference to the possibility he may otherwise have been suffering from a virus  or 
food poisoning  as suggested by the UK consultant. And whilst  the UK consultant  doesnt 
think the episode  Mr P experienced was cardiac,  he hasnt provided any further  medical 
evidence to confirm  an alternative diagnosis.
Mr Ps pointed  out to our investigator that he didnt receive an angiography as per the 
directions on the treating hospitals  medical  report which  stated please assess and manage 
further with angiography and subsequent  therapy.  But indications are that Mr P responded 
well to the treatment  he was given for unstable angina. So in the absence of more  
compelling medical evidence that contradicts the findings of this report, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for ETI to give more weight to this report than the UK consultants 
retrospective findings. And Im not going to ask it to review its decision  to decline Mr Ps 
claim.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6340923