K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that West  Bromwich  Building Society mis-sold Ms A payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me. I also thought the complaint should not be 
upheld, but I wanted to make sure that all the points made on behalf of Ms A had been 
addressed. So I wrote a provisional decision,  as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding this case.
Ms A has said she was made to take PPI, even though she didnt want the expense. I 
agree that the evidence shows that West Bromwich made it a condition of her 
mortgage offer that she take PPI. Taking PPI was a condition of taking a low interest 
rate mortgage. 
It wasnt automatically wrong for a lender to say a borrower must take PPI, but it 
needed to be open and honest about  this. In the past weve  seen cases where a 
mortgage adviser has made someone  think they had to take PPI when it wasnt true. 
Wed almost certainly see that as a mis-sale. But, in Ms As case, West Bromwich  had 
a policy  that PPI had to be taken with this particular kind of mortgage offer, and it was 
clear about  it to Ms A. So I do currently think Ms A was treated fairly  and had a fair 
choice about whether  to take this particular type of mortgage with the compulsory PPI, 
or to take a mortgage that didnt have PPI  and Ms A has said she took this particular 
mortgage because  it was cheaper. 
Ive looked at other ways in which the PPI might have been  sold, but my current  view 
is that these dont apply:
West Bromwich  recommended the PPI to Ms A, and this means  it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was 
suitable for Ms As particular circumstances.  But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Being 
unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have 
paid benefits at the same time as Ms A received any employer sick pay, and 
potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when she would need to fall 
back on any savings or other  resources.  This all would have put Ms A in a more 
secure position, if she eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. Ms A has said she didnt  want the extra  expense of the PPI, 
which is understandable;  but I havent  had evidence  that the cost of the PPI 
made the overall recommendation unsuitable for her circumstances. 
Ref: DRN64625572Its hard to know how well West Bromwich explained the costs and benefits  of the 
policy during the application process  although the actual offer letter does set 
out the costs.  But I dont anyway think fuller and clearer  information  would have  
affected whether  Ms A took the PPI.
Its possible West Bromwich didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  
didnt cover. But its unlikely Ms A would have  been affected by any of these. 
So my current view is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. But West Bromwich will pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms A because: 
West Bromwich  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms A about  that. Because  West 
Bromwich didnt  tell Ms A, that was unfair.  
To put that right, West Bromwich has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
So, if I confirm my provisional decision, I intend  to say that West Bromwich has to pay 
back to Ms A any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. West Bromwich should  also pay back to Ms A any extra  interest she 
paid because of that.
West Bromwich  should pay back to Ms A the extra  she paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. West 
Bromwich should also pay Ms A 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms A can claim back 
the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
In response to my provisional decision,  West Bromwich didnt have further comments  to 
make, and Ms As representatives said she accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out above, I do not think the PPI was mis-sold.  
Ref: DRN64625573my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so West Bromwich  Building Society doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms A.
But West Bromwich Building Society does  have to pay back  to Ms A any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6462557