K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that CASH ON GO LIMITED (trading  as Peachy.co.uk) didnt do enough 
checks to assess whether the loans were affordable to him.
background
Mr G had four loans from Peachy between April 2014 and May 2015 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Repayment Due Repaid
1 5 Apr 2014 £100 59d £80.79 2 Jun 2014 2 Jun 2014
2 6 Jun 2014 £150 88d £88.63 2 Sep 2014 2 Oct 2014*
3 21 Nov 2014 £300 73d £146.50 2 Feb 2015 2 Apr 2015*
4 20 May 2015 £400 345d £73.33 29 Apr 2016 30 Jun 2016*
* Mr G extended the term of the loan
Mr G says he was experiencing financial difficulties before taking out the loans and that by 
approving the loans,  Peachy caused  him further  difficulties. He says he was offered 
promotional rates to encourage  him to take out the loans, even though  he was already 
borrowing from multiple short-term lenders. Mr G also says he had mental health issues  and 
was on a debt management plan (DMP) which proportionate checks  would have  shown.
Peachy says it asked  Mr G for information  about  his income and expenditure and his living  
arrangements. It said it compared  the information  it received  with data from credit reference 
agencies and there was no indication that Mr G may be experiencing financial difficulty. 
Peachy said Mr Gs declared disposable income was more  than enough  to cover the loan 
repayments and his pattern of borrowing did not indicate a level of dependency on the loans.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She was satisfied Peachy 
did enough checks before  approving the first loan, but didnt consider it likely Mr G could 
afford to repay loans  2 to 4 in a sustainable  manner.  Our adjudicator found that the 
information Mr G had provided to Peachy showed  he would have had limited income with 
which to cover normal living expenses  after hed made the repayments on  loans 2 and 3.
She also found the pattern of borrowing, loan extensions and increasing amounts showed 
Mr G wasnt using the loans as a short-term cash flow solution, so Peachy shouldve  realised 
the loans were unsustainable  from loan 3 onwards. She recommended  it should refund 
interest and charges on loans 2 to 4 (plus 8% statutory interest),  remove  adverse information 
about loan 2 from Mr Gs credit file and remove loans 3 and 4 from his credit file entirely.
Peachy responded to say that it wasnt clear what proportionate checks  would  have shown, 
especially in relation to loan 2. It says that, given Mr G lived with his parents, it was feasible  
the money he had left over after making repayments covered other expenses.  It adds that 
Mr Gs bank statements may have shown higher expenditure than hed declared,  but it didnt 
consider it proportionate  to ask for that level of detail  so early in its lending relationship.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to Peachy  on 2 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I was satisfied Peachy  did enough  checks before it approved loans 1 and 2 and that 
there was nothing to indicate the repayments were  unaffordable;
By the time Mr G applied for loan 3, it had been  seven  months  since  loan 1, he was 
borrowing three times the amount and hed extended the term of his previous loan;
Ref: DRN65556772Mr Gs borrowing increased still further  for loan 4. It was taken out over a year after 
Mr Gs first. And it was for four times  the amount. Mr G had paid large  amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Peachy over an extended period;
I considered Peachy  ought to have  realised it was more  likely than not Mr G was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Gs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably;
Loans 3 and 4 had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period;
The sheer number  of loans and extensions  was likely to have  had negative  
implications on Mr Gs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Subject to any further representations by Mr G or Peachy, my provisional decision was that 
Peachy should  refund  interest and charges on loans 3 and 4 (plus 8% statutory interest) and 
remove the loans  from Mr Gs credit  file.
Peachy had no further information to add and Mr G provided a copy  of his credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Gs credit file to see what information Peachy is likely to have  seen before it 
approved loans 1 and 2. Although the credit file shows  two defaults, they are both almost  a 
year before Mr G applied for loan 1. So I cant fairly say Peachy  should have declined his 
loan applications  on that basis, especially given the additional information gave no indication 
of financial difficulty.
So I see no reason  to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. CASH ON GO LIMITED (trading as 
Peachy.co.uk) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr G paid on loans 3 and 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
The number of loans  taken from loan 3 onwards means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loan 3 onwards should be removed from 
Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Amanda Williams
Ref: DRN65556773ombudsman
Ref: DRN6555677