K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how National Westminster  Bank Plc has charged interest on his 
business loan.  
background
NatWest reviewed Mr Gs complaint but felt the interest  had been  correctly applied to his 
business loan account. However NatWest did acknowledge that Mr G was entitled to be 
upset by the level of service he received  when  he raised his complaint. They therefore 
awarded him £50 compensation  to reflect this. 
An adjudicator has already considered this case.  He felt that NatWest had correctly  
calculated the interest  charged on the business  loan in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the loan agreement. 
Mr G didnt agree. He still feels he has been overcharged and thinks  NatWest has acted 
unreasonably. This case has therefore  been referred to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having considered all the evidence Im not of the view that NatWest  has made a mistake. 
From the loan agreement  I can see that the loan and interest repayments consisted of 179 
instalments of £344.24 and a final instalment of £344.83. This gave a total of £61,963.79. 
Both parties  were aware of this and I note Mr G signed the loan agreement  in February 2010. 
One of the arguments Mr G has made  is that, when hes entered  details  of the loan (such  as 
the amount,  term, and interest rate) into an online loan calculator, he gets a different total 
repayment figure. Im afraid that Im unable to comment on findings from any online loan 
calculator. 
However having considered the evidence which NatWest has provided to our service Im 
satisfied that the loan ran in accordance with the agreement, apart from occasions when 
there have  been  arrears.  As I understand a number of payments were missed,  but then paid 
at later dates by Mr G. NatWest has advised  that there would be some  arrears interest paid 
on these missed payments. 
NatWest has also advised that, as per the loan agreement, the interest charged since  the 
loan inception has been 5% plus base rate. Whilst the interest rate did temporarily drop to 
0.25% from August 2016 to November  2017, Im satisfied  that this has also been factored in 
by NatWest. 
Ive considered the point that Mr G didnt settle  this loan as early  as he could have due to the 
on-going dispute with NatWest. Just like the adjudicator  I think  Mr G had the opportunity to 
settle the loan early  and then continue with the investigations into querying  the loan 
repayments. I cant hold NatWest at fault for Mr G not doing this.
Ref: DRN61097832my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020. 
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6109783