K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the exchange rate that Santander UK Plc used to change some 
money from pounds sterling into euros.
background
Mr M told us that he approached Santander  about  making a large payment  in euros. He said 
that Santander worked out, for the amount he wanted to pay in euros, he would need to 
send a little over £46,000 in pounds sterling. He said that at first he wrote a cheque, but it 
was taking too long to clear, so he set up a bank transfer instead,  with the help of branch 
staff. But he said that he ended up being  charged  way too much for the euros that were  sent.
Mr M said he was expecting  Santander to use an exchange rate set by the Bank of England. 
But instead  of an exchange rate of around  1.13 euros to the pound  which  he was expecting, 
he said he got 1.01 euros  to the pound, which made  a big difference  to the amount that 
arrived. He said that he thought the payment ended up being about  £5,000  short, because of 
this exchange  rate.
Santander said that the branch that sent the payment hadnt given Mr M a currency 
exchange rate. The staff had sent the payment for €56,721.50  as requested.  
Santander said that it didnt think that its staff had made any mistakes,  either in the branch or 
over the phone. It wouldnt  pay him any money
Santander sent us a call recording,  where  Mr M asked how much  money  he would need to 
send, to make sure that an amount of €52,721.50 arrived. He was told that, based on the 
Bank of England  rate, it would be £46,230.71. But the call hander explained then that the 
rate can change and is dependent on the day the transaction is completed. Santander said 
that when Mr M made his transfer, he sent rather more than that. It said he had specifically 
requested to make sure that €56,721.50 arrived. He wasnt  given a rate on the day, but 
Santander showed us that Mr M sent £50,736.58 and he paid £25 in charges on top of that. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that the advisor had mentioned  the 
Bank of England  rate, but she told Mr M that exchange rates  change  on a daily basis. And 
the payment would be subject to fees. Our adjudicator said that banks are entitled  to use 
their own commercial judgment to set their own exchange rates  for international  transfers. 
She thought  that Santander had acted in line with the terms of Mr Ms account.  And she said 
that the difference was because Mr M had asked for an indication of how many pounds  
would make up an amount over €52,000,  but he actually  sent an amount over €56,000. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Santander  had made a mistake,  and she didnt think  it had to 
do any more. 
Mr M didnt  agree with that. He said that hed been  told he would get Bank of England rates,  
not a rate that he could  get at a bucket shop. He said that Santander shouldve told him its 
rates before he made  the transfer.  
Because Mr M didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN66619892I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-When Mr M rang Santander on 26 June, the call handler used the Bank of England rate 
to tell him roughly how much money  to send in the form of a cheque.  The call handler did 
explain that the rate can change, but there was also no suggestion at any point that the 
rate used  by Santander would be different to the Bank of England rate. 
-Mr M asked on that call how many pounds would make up the bill he needed to pay of 
€52,721.50. He cancelled  the cheque he wrote after this call, because it was taking too 
long to clear. He made  a transfer in branch instead.  He eventually sent a larger sum, of 
€56,721.50. 
-Mr M said that the rate that was actually used for his transaction  was about 1.01 euros to 
the pound, so this cost him about £5,000. But I didnt think that Mr M lost that amount, or 
that the rate used was as low as he suggested.  I said Id explain why I thought  that.
-I knew that much more money  was taken out of Mr Ms account  than he was expecting. 
But when  he asked  Santander for an idea of how much the euros amount would be in 
pounds, he gave a euros amount of €52,721.50. He then asked the branch to send 
€56,721.50. So I thought  that the main reason that this transaction  cost Mr M more 
pounds than he was expecting was because Mr M asked the branch  to send €4,000  
more than hed previously mentioned on the phone. 
-Santander then mentioned a rate of 1.10 euros to the pound  on the phone, as the 
possible rate which  could be used. The transaction was still pending then,  and that didnt 
seem to me to be the rate that was actually used. And the rate that was used was 
certainly not as low as 1.01 euros  to the pound, which is the rate Mr M mentioned.  I 
thought that Mr M may have just made  a mistake  about  that. 
-I thought that the exchange rate that Santander used was a little less than 1.12 euros to 
the pound. (Id worked that out by dividing the amount he paid in euros  by the amount 
which was withdrawn  from his account  in pounds.)
-Mr M said that the Bank of England rate on the day was 1.13 or 1.14. But it wasnt.  The 
Bank of England  rate on the day that his account  was debited,  9 July, was 1.1276 euros 
to the pound. If that rate had been used, Mr M wouldve paid £50,302.85  for this transfer, 
which was just over £400 less than he did pay. 
-So I didnt think that Mr M lost anywhere  near as much money as he thought.  But I did 
think that Mr M was given an indication that the Bank of England rate would  be used, 
and it wasnt. 
-Santander doesnt have to use the Bank of England rate. As our adjudicator explained, it 
can set its own exchange rate, and our service wont prevent it from doing that. But I did 
think that Santander had an obligation not to mislead Mr M about  the rate he was going 
to get. 
-I could hear on the call that Mr M made,  when  the Bank of England  rate was quoted, that 
he was aware that he had other  options  to make the transfer, including  companies  which  
specialise in international transfers. That might have been less convenient  for Mr M. But 
Ref: DRN66619893he could probably  have got closer  to the Bank  of England  rate if he had used one of 
these firms. 
-I thought that if Mr M had been aware  that Santander would use its own rate, then he 
couldve made an informed choice as to whether he wanted to do this transaction with 
Santander. But Santander didnt tell him that it would use its own rate, and not the Bank 
of England rate, on that call. And I thought it should have.  It didnt  seem  to have told him 
this at all until after the transfer  was done.
-I thought that Santander should  pay Mr M £200  in compensation, because I thought it 
not only didnt  provide  him with information to make that informed choice, but the 
information it did give him was actively misleading.  So he lost the chance to make  that 
informed choice, and ended up being charged more  than he was expecting.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Santander agreed with my provisional  decision.  Mr M wrote to object.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr M said that my decision was incorrect. He said that hed written a cheque to the solicitor 
for over €56,000 euros. He said that the figure was given by Santander,  and it said that the 
transaction would  be at Bank of England rates. 
Mr M said that because of the time the cheque was taking to clear he was advised  by 
Santander to go into a branch and transfer the money. He said that at no time did Santander 
give him any indication  it was going  to set its own exchange rates. He said he was always  
under the presumption it would be the Bank of England rates 
Mr M said that from the time of Santander  giving him an estimate of the amount in pounds 
he would  be charged, to the time the transfer cleared, there was very little movement in the 
Bank of England  rates. So he said that what he paid should  have been very close to the 
original quotation  given to me by Santander.
Mr M said that I was implying that he sent a larger cheque. But he said that the figure he had 
to pay to the solicitor  was always the same. The only discrepancy was Santanders 
deduction. He said that Santander had an obligation  to notify  him before it made  up its own 
exchange rate. He still thought hed been  charged  about £4,000 pounds more than 
Santander had estimated.
Mr M said that the exchange rate of €1.01  to the pound had been given to him by Santander. 
And he said it still hadnt explained how it came  to charge the extra  £4,000.
Mr M said that he would  now need to proceed  with a court case  about  this, because he was 
led to believe Santander would honour the Bank  of England rate, as it does every time he 
makes a withdrawal to get his pension.
I think there has been some misunderstanding  here.  I didnt suggest Mr M had paid a larger 
cheque to his solicitor. I listened  carefully  to a call he made to Santander. On that call he 
Ref: DRN66619894asked how much about €52,000 would  be in pounds. Santander told him an amount, based  
on the Bank of England rate. 
There are two points to make from that call. Firstly, Santander did mention the Bank  of 
England rate. And it didnt  give Mr M that rate, or tell him it wasnt going to. I have upheld his 
complaint on this point.  
Secondly, Mr M didnt  owe his solicitor €52,000. He owed €56,000. He got the figure  wrong 
on the call he made  to Santander. Thats  why he ended  up being charged  about £4,000  
more than he was expecting. Thats not Santanders fault. Ive not upheld his complaint  on 
this point. 
I have listened  carefully  to the calls in this case,  and I dont think  that Santander  ever told 
Mr M that it had used a rate of €1.01  to the pound. I said that I thought Mr M had just made  a 
mistake about that. And Ive explained that I dont think that is the rate it did use. The 
exchange rate it used  wasnt  that bad. It was close to the Bank of England rate at the time. 
But not quite as good.
Ive also considered what Mr M has said about  the rate he usually  gets when he makes 
withdrawals. I havent seen any evidence, either here or in other cases  Ive dealt with, to 
suggest that Santander uses  the Bank of England rate to make foreign currency  payments. I 
explained in my provisional decision  that it doesnt  have to. It can use its own rates. Thats  
what I think it does. So it seems unlikely  that Mr M is actually getting the Bank  of England  
rate when he makes  withdrawals to access his pension. I cant base my decision on his 
assertion that he is.
Mr M will now need to decide if he wants to accept my decision. If he does, he might not be 
able to take a court  case against  Santander.  So Mr M will need  to think  about  that carefully.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  pay Mr M £200  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6661989