K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1987. Mr and Mrs S say Bradford & Bingley  Plc mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy initially  only covered  Mr S for accident,  sickness and unemployment.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bradford & Bingley Plc made it clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they may 
not remember this.
I say this for a number  of reasons, including:
oThe initial mortgage was taken out in 1985 and no PPI was sold at that point as 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc has said that they didnt sell PPI in 1985. So I think  that 
Mr and Mrs S would reasonably have  been aware that PPI was optional  as theyd 
been able to take the first borrowing without  any additional PPI.
oIve also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application.  In a section 
headed PAYMENT  PROTECTION INSURANCE: there  were  options to select 
the benefit level required and a separate option  to indicate if PPI wasnt  required. 
The figure of £100  has been  entered and Mr and Mrs S have both signed the 
overall application.
oIve also noted  that there was an option  for both Mr and Mrs S to be covered 
under the policy,  but only Mr S was selected to be covered. This again suggests  
that Mr and Mrs S had a choice about  the PPI.
oMr and Mrs S have  handwritten in their PPI questionnaire to our Service; .He  
advised us taking out PPI it would help us get a mortgage this was our first big 
loan. But this is contradicted by what Ive already stated  about the previous 
borrowing in 1985, which  Mr and Mrs S took out without PPI. 
On balance, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think that its more  likely than 
not that Mr and Mrs S were made  aware  that PPI was optional  before they chose  to 
take it out. Given that this sale took place  over 30 years ago, I wouldnt expect Mr and 
Mrs S to clearly recall  every detail now after so much time has passed.
Mr and Mrs S have  said that Bradford & Bingley  Plc made a recommendation that they 
take PPI. But based  on what Ive seen,  I dont think that a recommendation was made to 
take PPI. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them.  But it did have 
Ref: DRN60644582to make sure Mr and Mrs S got the information they needed to decide if it was right for 
them. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley Plc gave  Mr and Mrs S about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like they were  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover.  
Which means Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S 
because: 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Bradford 
& Bingley Plc didnt  tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley Plc has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said - including  what theyve said about  
their existing means of making their mortgage  repayments meaning they didnt need PPI. 
But after 6 months Mr Ss sick pay would have decreased to half pay. This PPI policy would  
have paid out for up to 12 months per claim  so I still think that they could have found it 
useful if Mr S was unwell and unable to work.
Ive also noted  what Mr and Mrs S have said about  their parents being able to help them 
make their repayments. But although Mr and Mrs Ss parents may have wanted to help 
them, they may not have been  in a position  to help when  needed   as circumstances can 
change.
So these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  Plc has to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford & Bingley Plc should also pay 
back to Mr and Mrs S any extra  interest they paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should also pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest on each payment 
(15% on payments before  April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
Ref: DRN60644583my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6064458