K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that a laptop  was returned in a damaged condition following a claim 
under their home insurance  policy with esure  Insurance  Limited (esure). 
All references to esure include the agents  it has appointed to handle claims. 
Background
Mr and Mrs E made a claim to have their daughters laptop repaired under their home 
insurance policy. 
When the laptop was returned to Mr and Mrs E, they complained  it was damaged  and sent 
photographs to esure. 
Esure said it had photographs of the laptop  before it was returned to Mr and Mrs E and the 
laptop wasnt damaged at that point and there  was no damage to the box the laptop  was 
sent in. So, esure said it didnt  think it was responsible - but paid Mr and Mrs E £100 
compensation for its delays in responding to the complaint. 
As Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy,  they brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  think he could  fairly  say esure was responsible  for the damage  
caused. Mr and Mrs E didnt agree with our investigators conclusions,  so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt Mr and Mrs Es daughters laptop  is damaged. Mr and Mrs E have sent us 
photographs which  clearly  show damage on the lid. 
I have no way of knowing  for certain how this damage happened. So I need to decide what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened, based on the available  evidence.
Esure has provided photographs of an undamaged laptop before it was packaged to be 
returned. Although  the serial number of the laptop isnt visible  in these photographs,  I have 
no reason to doubt that this is Mr and Mrs Es daughters laptop. So Im satisfied the laptop  
wasnt damaged  when it was packed  to be returned to Mr and Mrs E.
The next question  is whether I think its likely the laptop was damaged  in transit. 
Mr and Mrs E say when the laptop  was initially given to esure,  it was packed in a hard plastic  
box with thick padding. However when  the laptop  was returned, they say it was in a thin 
cardboard box with a thin layer of cellophane wrapping which wasnt  strong enough to hold 
the laptop in place. 
Esure has provided an explanation of how this type of packaging works. It says the laptop  is 
secured with a tight piece of cellophane on an internal insert,  pulled tight by two flaps of 
cardboard which fold onto the underside of the laptop. Esure says this insert  then makes  the 
Ref: DRN60989792laptop float in the middle  of the box so if there  is any form of impact,  this wont  directly hit 
the laptop. 
Ive seen photographs of the cardboard box, including some  sent by Mr and Mrs E which 
show what I think is minor damage to the lid of the box. But when  comparing these 
photographs with the photographs of the damage on the laptop  lid, I dont think I can 
reasonably say the two are linked. Taking into account the position and extent of the 
damage on the laptop, Id expect to see more  significant  damage  to the box if the laptop had 
suffered an impact in this way. 
Ive asked esure about the volume  of other complaints about this agent  relating to packaging 
or damage  to goods in transit and it says it has received no other complaints in 2019.  Of 
course this doesnt  mean Mr and Mrs Es daughters laptop couldnt  have been  damaged  in 
this way. But it is a factor which  Ive taken into account when reaching my decision. 
I understand Mr and Mrs E feel strongly  about  the matter and theyve gone to great lengths 
to pursue their complaint.  I dont  in any way doubt their belief  about  what happened  to the 
laptop. 
But I need to weigh  up all of the evidence  to reach  an impartial outcome which is fair and 
reasonable to both parties. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think  I can fairly say its 
likely the laptop  was damaged in transit. So this means I wont be recommending for esure 
to do anything further. 
If Mr and Mrs E wish to have the laptop  returned to them, theyll  need  to contact esure to 
arrange this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6098979