K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL wasnt the direct seller in this case,  but it has taken responsibility for the complaint. So 
to avoid confusion  I shall refer to it as the seller.
background
Mr C took out a store card in 1994. At the same  time he bought a PPI policy which  wouldve 
covered the repayments on his account if he wasnt  able to work. 
Mr C says the policy wasnt wanted, needed or suitable for him. 
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Cs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr C disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
FICL has provided a copy of the credit  agreement Mr C completed. I can see from this that 
Mr C was given a choice  about buying  it. He ticked a box to say he wanted the PPI, leaving 
other options for other  products blank. Mr C signed  the completed  form.
Mr C has said that he thinks an employee of the store completed the application form, ticking  
for PPI, and then presented it to Mr C to sign. But in other parts of his questionnaire 
completed for this service he says he has no recollection of the sale,  so I dont think I can 
rely on Mr Cs recollection here.  Even if this was the case, the form was a very 
straightforward single page document. The PPI was presented clearly and prominently and it 
is not unreasonable to expect Mr C to have reviewed this before signing. So I dont think 
FICL did anything wrong here. I think its most likely  Mr C bought the policy knowing he had 
a choice about it.
FICL didnt  make a personal recommendation to Mr C about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for him. But it did need to make  sure it gave 
him all the information  he needed to make his own decision.  I dont think  FICL did this well 
enough. For example,  theres no mention of what the exact  benefits  or costs were.  
But looking  at Mr Cs circumstances I dont think more information  wouldve changed  his 
mind about  buying  it. I think  its likely Mr C understood the policy  would pay a benefit if he 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Mr C chose to take out the PPI, it seems he was 
interested in this type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mr C was affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it more 
difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
Ref: DRN64683372conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it wouldve been useful for him if 
something went wrong. I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mr C.
Mr C says he was entitled to some sick pay if he wasnt  working. As hed only worked  for his 
employer for a few years  I dont think hed have been entitled to much  redundancy pay. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay and potentially for 
longer. Mr C says he didnt have any savings at the time of sale, so he wouldnt have had 
another way of meeting  his expenses other  than through his sick pay or redundancy pay. So 
I think the policy offered  Mr C a useful  benefit. 
The policy was relatively expensive compared to others on the market  around the same  
time. But it offered  a greater benefit  than others, and couldve paid off Mr Cs entire  balance  
in a few months.
So, on balance, I think Mr C wouldve still bought  the policy if hed understood all the 
information about it. I dont think Mr C lost out as a result of anything FICL  did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint so it follows that Financial Insurance Company Limited 
doesnt have to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6468337