K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Advanced Services  Europe Limited (Amex) 
deducted a monthly  fee from his gift card. To put things right he wants  them to refund the 
money.
background
In September  2013 Mr S purchased an Amex gift card for the value of £30. He intended to 
give it to someone else as a gift, but misplaced it. He found it again in August 2018 and 
attempted to activate  it online, but found it had a zero balance.
Mr S contacted Amex  to find out why. They explained the card had been activated  and a 
£1.50 monthly fee had been applied, starting 12 months after activation and continuing until 
the balance had run out. Mr S argued that the card hadnt been activated  as he hadnt used 
it yet  but Amex  said it was activated at the point of sale.
Mr S said he was unaware the card had been  activated as the outer packaging of the gift 
card did not explain  this. Hes told us that one of Amexs customer  service representatives 
agreed to waive  some  of the fees applied,  but not all. So he escalated his complaint. But 
when he received a final response  from Amex there was no offer of any refund or 
compensation. Amex  said that the card was not intended for long term use, and felt they had 
followed their terms and conditions correctly.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this outcome, and referred his complaint to our service. He feels  that 
legislation requires Amex  to advise that the gift card is activated at the point of sale on their 
outer packaging. And he pointed out that the gift card had an expiry  date on it of September 
2018. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint. They felt Amex had followed the terms and 
conditions on the card correctly, so didnt feel they had made  an error. Mr S still feels  it 
wasnt clear the card would be activated  when he purchased it. So the case  has been 
passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr S will be disappointed,  but I 
wont be asking Amex  to refund  the monthly charges  they deducted from his gift card. 
In making my decision, Ive had regard for all that Mr S has told and sent us, alongside what  
Amex have provided too. But Ill remind Mr S at this point that we are a quick  and informal  
dispute resolution service.  So while Ive taken  into account the legislation  and guidelines 
hes mentioned   Im not necessarily bound by them in reaching a decision on whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances here.
Its not disputed  that Amex followed  their terms and conditions correctly here. They began 
deducting a £1.50 monthly fee from Mr Ss gift card in September  2014, 12 months after 
activation. This fee was clearly set out both in the full terms and conditions  enclosed with the 
gift card,  and on the gift cards outer  packaging which stated A non-refundable  monthly fee 
of £1.50 will be charged starting 12 months after the activation  date of the card.
Ref: DRN69704082Amex is entitled  to set the terms and conditions of products like this. I havent  seen  anything  
that suggests to me that this is a particularly unfair term here either. I say this because Amex  
have shown us that a term like this is in keeping with other similar  cards  offered by other 
businesses. Cards like this arent intended to be used  in the long term, but Amexs  terms 
and conditions set out that customers can redeem the value of the card at any point too.
Mr Ss argument here though is that he didnt know the gift card had been  activated when he 
purchased it. He says it wasnt stated  on the outer packaging of the gift card that this would 
be the case. He feels  this is not in keeping with legislation governing  the sale of goods and 
contract terms. 
I can understand that it would have been very disappointing for Mr S to find he was unable  to 
redeem the £30 that was originally on the gift card. He clearly wasnt  aware that the card 
was activated  as soon as he purchased it. But that doesnt mean that Amex  have applied the 
fees unfairly here. I say this because, while the information about the card being  activated 
wasnt on the outer packaging  of the card - Amex encloses more  detailed information with 
the gift card.  
These terms set out that gift cards  purchased  in store will be activated automatically at the 
point of sale on purchase of the gift card. I can also see that the outer packaging of the gift 
card did state that the full terms and conditions  were enclosed. So someone who bought,  or 
received a card like this could refer to these if they wanted to know  more about how the card 
worked.
Mr S didnt open the gift card to read these terms and conditions,  because he initially  
purchased it intending to give it to someone else. So I appreciate  he wouldnt have wanted, 
or needed to open the packaging at this point.  Its unfortunate  that he then misplaced the 
card so he never got round  to reading  these  terms. But thats  not something itd be fair for 
me to say that Amex are responsible for. The card came with all the information Mr S 
wouldve needed to understand that the card had been activated and fees would be applied  
12 months after he bought it.
Mr S has pointed  out that the card had an expiry date of September 2018 printed on the 
outer packaging. And I can see it does say Valid Thru 09/2018,  and Mr S attempted  to use 
the card prior to this date.  However, the card has not reverted to a nil balance because it has 
expired. It has a nil balance because its credit  was used  up paying Amexs  monthly  fee. So 
while I understand why Mr S mentions  this  it doesnt change my decision here.
Mr S has told us that if he had been  aware  that a monthly fee would apply 12 months from 
the purchase of the gift card he wouldnt have  bought it. But the card came  with the relevant 
information about these fees. Had Mr S read this, he wouldve realised he couldve  
redeemed the full value of the card, so he wouldnt have been disadvantaged by this. But he 
didnt read this because he misplaced the card. That must be frustrating for Mr S, but its not 
Amexs fault.
Mr S is unhappy that when he initially  spoke  to Amex one of their advisors offered to refund 
him 12 months worth of charges, which would have totalled £18. Mr S says he declined  this 
offer as he wanted  to be refunded in full, and escalated his complaint. But when Amex gave 
him a final response  to his complaint they didnt make an offer to refund any of the fees 
theyd applied. 
Ref: DRN69704083Amex have been unable to find a recording of the call on which Mr S says this happened, 
but they dispute that their advisor would have made such an offer and have shown us that 
the notes their advisor made whilst on the call do not refer to it. I cant  be sure what was 
discussed, but I havent seen any record of this offer.  
Even if this were made  though, Mr S has also told us that he declined it at the time. I dont 
think its unreasonable that when Amex escalated his complaint they looked at it afresh and 
didnt make an offer to refund  any charges.  So whilst I understand this decision was very 
frustrating for Mr S, I dont  feel they have treated him unfairly here either.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6970408