K821x#15complaint
Mr B, of behalf of his company  B, complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly restricted account 
access.
background
Mr B says Bs Metro  account was blocked  in early May 2019 which  caused  significant 
inconvenience. He says he was unable to find out why Metro  took that action and as a result 
he has paid interest on payments  he couldnt make on time. Mr B would like his account 
closed and his money  as well as interest  paid to him.
Metro says its entitled in line with the account  terms and conditions  to restrict or block an 
account. And in certain circumstances is not obliged to provide  reasons for that decision. It 
accepts there was a delay  in telling Mr B that it intended to close  Bs account and what  was 
happening.
Mr B had already  brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought  overall Metro  
should pay B £200 compensation. The investigator thought Metro was entitled  to block  or 
restrict an account. But thought Metro should  have provided us with a reason for that 
decision, which we would  then consider if it was commercially sensitive and decide if Mr B 
should be told about it.
Metro has said it will not provide further information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to a similar 
overall view as the investigator.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr B would have agreed to on 
behalf of B. And I can see that those terms and conditions allow Metro to place restrictions  
on an account and that in certain circumstances that its not obliged  to tell a customer why 
its taken that decision.  So I dont think Metro  has made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
applying a block and restrictions  to Bs account.  But I am unable  to conclude if it was obliged 
to tell B why it took that decision as its not told us if that term and condition  applied here. 
I can see that the block was placed  on Bs account  on 1 May 2019 but Metro took over six 
weeks to tell Mr B that it intended to close the account. Metro  hasnt told this service why it 
took that long.  And I have no doubt  B was caused  inconvenience by not having access  to its 
money and I dont think that length of time was fair or reasonable in the absence  of any 
explanation for the delay. For that reason  I think Metro should pay B compensation and I 
agree with the investigator that £200  is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that Mr B says he 
was unable to pay a debt which resulted in interest  being charged. But I make clear  to Mr B 
that the complainant here is B and so I need  to consider the impact on it rather  than Mr B. 
For that reason  I cant order compensation for any distress or inconvenience Mr B was 
caused.
Ref: DRN62198012my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Metro  Bank  PLC to pay B £200 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 20 October 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6219801