K821x#15complaint
Mr As complaint is about advice given by Jim McLaughlin Financial Services  to transfer 
various pension  arrangements  into a self invested personal pension  (SIPP).  
Jim McLaughlin Financial  Services was an appointed representative of Intrinsic Financial 
Planning Ltd which  is now Quilter  Financial Services Ltd. But for convenience Ive just 
referred, in the main,  to Intrinsic below.  
background
Intrinsics representative  advised  Mr A to transfer  the value of his deferred benefits in a 
former employers pension scheme and two other pension  arrangements to a SIPP.  
Mr A later complained that the adviser had misled  him about  the advice that would be 
provided; had dealt with the matter in an unprofessional  manner; and Mr A had been put 
under pressure to make  an important financial decision. Intrinsic  didnt uphold Mr As 
complaint and he referred it to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into it. Exactly what happened isnt agreed. In particular 
theres a dispute  about whether certain  documents were given to Mr A and, if so, when. Mr A 
says he didnt get the documents  and he wasnt made aware of Intrinsics  fees  in total 
£15,000 (made up of £12,000 for the final salary  transfer and £3,000 for the other two 
transfers). Mr A says the fee should  be reinvested in his pension. 
The adjudicator wrote to Mr A and Intrinsic on 10 May 2019 setting out the background and 
his views. The adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint. In summary  he concluded:
The terms of business document explained  that the advice was "based on products 
from a panel of leading investment companies..." The reports  dated 15 and 17 
January 2018  also mentioned that the adviser  made his recommendation from a 
panel of investment pension and platform providers.
The terms of business document set out the basis of the fees that he charged. The 
actual fees for the advice were included  on the Authority to Proceed form (ATP). 
The first page of the report recommending  the transfer referred to a meeting on 28 
July 2017 and said the charges had been discussed  and agreed - £15,000 for Mr A. 
And the email dated 24 January 2018 set out the fees. Mr A had replied, saying that 
was fine. 
There hadnt been a meeting on 28 July 2017. So it wasnt  clear  why the adviser  had 
referred to that date.  The letter  of authority Mr A signed was dated 27 July 2018.
Mr A had said hed completed  blank  ATP forms because hed trusted  the adviser. But 
it was reasonable  to expect him to have read the form before  he signed it. Hed have 
seen that the adviser was meant to be providing  various documents and details. If 
that hadnt been provided Mr A should  reasonably have queried that.  
The fund recommendation wasnt unreasonable and in was line with Mr As 
moderate risk profile. 
A large  number of reports  had been produced. Mr A may have appreciated a meeting 
to go through  them. But the recommendation report summarised the key information.
The adviser may have  spent  time satisfying the requirements of his compliance 
department. But it needed to sign off the advice before the transfer  could go ahead.  
The reports did include a section about the lifetime allowance  (LTA). Mr A might  feel 
his new adviser is providing a superior service. But it wasnt  clear that matters such 
Ref: DRN65975312as the LTA would form part of the transfer advice. Given the deadlines it might have 
been better to have  looked at such issues once the transfers had been completed.  
Mr A wasnt  happy with the adjudicators  view.  There was considerable further  
correspondence following which the adjudicator issued a revised  view.  He now thought the 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. In summary:
The adjudicator  had referred the business to what  the COBS  (Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook) rules said about  providing information about the firm, its services and 
costs and the timing  of the disclosure of those details. The adjudicator had made 
enquiries of Intrinsic to see if the necessary information had been given to Mr A at 
the start of the advice process.  
It was clear thered  been no meeting on 28 July 2017. And Mr A had said hed never 
received the documents  listed  in the ATP. The adviser had referred to the letter of 
authority that Mr A had signed on 27 July 2017  and said that hed given Mr A the 
terms of business, guide to our service and about our ongoing services  documents 
then. But Mr A had explained why he wouldnt have  met with the adviser on that date 
or any other date in July. 
If the ATP wasnt signed  until December 2017  details of the charges should  have 
been provided earlier, at the outset of the advice process. But nothing  had been 
provided to show that had happened.  
The competed ATP form would have provided clear  information about the fees that 
would be charged.  That together with the documents listed would have met the 
regulatory requirements. Mr A had said he signed blank  ATP forms on 22 December  
2017. But the forms, even if theyd been  blank, would have highlighted that the 
adviser should have provided information  about  fees and various other documents. 
But that was at a late stage in the advice process.  Mr A would have been in a difficult  
position. It would have been  too late to seek advice elsewhere and complete  the 
transfers before the CETV  expired  and when any new CETV was likely to be 
significantly lower. 
There was considerable email  correspondence  leading up to the transfer,  a lot of 
which related to the adviser meeting the compliance departments  requirements. But 
there was nothing from the time when the advice process started  to show  the terms 
of business and other documents  were provided then. And it didnt look like the ATP 
had been provided  before 22 December 2017 despite that having been  given as a 
reason for the delay in issuing the transfer  advice.  
The adjudicator  didnt think it would be reasonable to conclude  that the adviser had 
given Mr A sufficient information about the fees and the basis for the advice at the 
outset and as required by the COBS  rules. 
Mr A had said hed spoken  to another firm of advisers. And if hed been  made  aware 
earlier of the level of fees Intrinsic was charging, hed have asked the other  firm for 
an estimate. 
The adjudicator  had contacted that firm. It had said its fee would have been between  
0.5% and 1% of the fund value. For a transfer value of the size of Mr As pensions  
theyd have charged 0.5%  of the total (final salary and money purchase 
arrangements). The adjudicator set out how Intrinsic  should calculate and pay 
compensation to Mr A.
Intrinsic didnt accept the adjudicators view. Its main  points were: 
Although it couldnt provide documentary evidence that the disclosure documents 
were issued  by the adviser in July 2017 as hed confirmed, neither can Mr A produce 
Ref: DRN65975313anything to show that they werent  given to him then. But theres no doubt he signed  
the ATPs  on 22 December 2017 and theyd been issued earlier as the adviser  was 
awaiting their return.  Its not reasonable and seems out of character for Mr A to have 
signed a document that hadnt been  fully completed. 
Before returning  the ATPs Mr A was fully aware  of the expiry  date of the CETV. He 
could have chosen not to proceed  with the adviser and instructed the other firm 
instead if he was unhappy with the proposed fees.  
Mr A had signed a legal agreement to pay a fixed fee of £15,000. That shouldnt be 
substituted with a hypothetical percentage based  figure from the other adviser.  Mr A 
specifically wanted a fixed fee agreement  and still had the opportunity  to use the 
other adviser if he wasnt happy  with the proposed  fee. 
Mr A had confirmed that he wouldnt be accessing his pension until age 65 (in 2026). 
But that wasnt true  hed tried to access the funds to go into drawdown shortly after 
the transfers had been  completed. 
Mr A was happy with what the adjudicator proposed.  He did raise  two further matters. The 
first was about Intrinsics  handling of his complaint. Mr A said Intrinsic had dismissed his 
complaint and wasnt prepared to reconsider even  though Mr A had offered to provide 
evidence that the adviser  had given misleading  information on dates and meetings. Mr A 
suggested, if Intrinsic had investigated the complaint fairly, a mutually acceptable outcome 
would have been reached in the initial stages of the complaint process. Instead hed spent 
substantial time over a long period  dealing  with the complaint, which  had caused  him 
unnecessary stress.  He queried if he should make a further complaint to Intrinsic or refer the 
matter to the regulator. 
Secondly Mr A said he didnt think the SIPP providers  platform   which  Intrinsics adviser 
recommended  was designed for private investors.  Hed suffered a financial loss (tax of 
over £18,000 deducted  for exceeding the LTA)  when hed withdrawn  his tax free cash 
because he hadnt  appointed an adviser  on the platform. Intrinsic had said he hadnt made it 
aware that he planned to take his tax free cash. But Intrinsic knew  he didnt intend to take on 
going advice and didnt tell him the platform wasnt designed for those managing their own 
investments. Hed committed to buying  a property and had paid a deposit so he had little 
option but to continue with the purchase and accept the tax liability.  
The adjudicator replied to Mr A saying those issues flowed from the advice given and should 
be regarded as part of Mr As ongoing complaint. As to the suitability of the platform, the 
adjudicator noted  Mr A had declined the ongoing  advice service  in favour of ad hoc advice, 
as and when he needed it. Taking tax free cash wouldnt have been  treated differently due to 
there being no adviser in place. Mr A could  have approached Intrinsic for further  advice. The 
adjudicator didnt think it was fair to hold Intrinsic  responsible for any adverse  tax 
consequences Mr A had suffered and which might have been avoided if hed taken advice. 
As agreement wasnt reached  the complaint has been passed to me to decide. Im sorry that 
its taken longer than wed have liked to reach  this final stage in our process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators (revised) view. So, and for the reasons  he gave, I think  the complaint should  be 
upheld. Ive set out my additional reasons below. 
Ref: DRN65975314Mr A has made very detailed representations. Ive considered everything he and Intrinsic  
have said. But I havent dealt with each and every point raised. Instead Ive focused on what  
I consider to be the main issues.  
Looking at what Intrinsic said in response  to the adjudicators  (revised)  view, first Im not 
sure what  documentary evidence Mr A could produce to support what he says about  not 
having received  the disclosure documents in July 2017. But Id expect the adviser to be able 
to produce evidence to show he did give those important documents  to Mr A then  a letter, 
file note, or email confirming theyd been handed  to Mr A. That would have prevented later 
argument if, for example, Mr A was given the documents but now doesnt recall.   
Mr A says he wasnt given the documents in July 2017. Hes also explained, and provided 
evidence in support,  to show  that he couldnt  have met with the adviser on the July dates 
suggested. I think that casts considerable doubt  on the advisers assertion that the 
documents were  given  to Mr A at a meeting in July 2017. I accept what  Mr A says and that 
he wasnt given the documents in July 2017. 
In saying that I dont  overlook that Mr A signed the ATP on 22 December 2017 confirming 
the three disclosure documents had been given to him on 28 July 2017. But he says the 
form was blank when  he signed it. I note what Intrinsic says about Mr A being unlikely to 
have signed documents that hadnt  been fully completed. I agree Mr A doesnt seem the sort 
of person whod  be likely to do that. Or, for that matter, enter  into the advice and transfer 
process without knowing, up front, what the cost would be. But Mr A says he trusted the 
adviser and I respect that. So I think its possible that Mr A did sign the form in blank. 
But, even  if he did, the form is pre printed and does set out the documents  that Mr A is 
supposed to have been given. And in signing the form Mr A confirmed hed received and 
reviewed that literature. So Mr A could,  and I think should, have queried why those hadnt 
been provided. Again, given his clear  attention  to detail, Id have thought hed have done 
that. 
But, as the adjudicator pointed out, the timing is important and, in particular, if the requisite 
information was given at the outset of the advice process, or at least  at a time when Mr A 
hadnt committed to this adviser and transferring to a SIPP.  If Mr A didnt get the documents  
in July 2017 its not clear when he did get them, if at all. 
I dont agree with Intrinsics comments about  Mr A having  the option  to instruct  another 
adviser if he was unhappy  with the proposed fee of £15,000. The suitability  report  wasnt 
emailed to Mr A until 22 January 2018.  That left only a matter  of days  before the CETV 
expired (on 31 January 2018). I agree with the adjudicator that it was by then too late to seek 
advice elsewhere  and complete the transfers  before the CETV  deadline  and risk any new 
CETV being  significantly lower. 
I appreciate Intrinsics position is that the advice was delayed because  the adviser was 
awaiting the return of the ATP which, according  to Intrinsic, was sent to Mr A on 23 
November 2017.  But even if the ATP was sent then and wasnt  blank and did set out the 
fees, that wasnt at the outset of the process as COBS requires and the CETV had already 
been issued. 
Theres also other evidence  the email  dated 24 January  2018   which suggests agreement 
on fees wasnt reached at the outset or indeed in December 2017. Im not sure why it was 
necessary for the adviser to send that email if the fees had already been  discussed and 
Ref: DRN65975315disclosed  whether on the ATP or elsewhere.  And that email is couched  in terms which  
dont reflect confirmation of what had been  agreed earlier. 
That email  followed on from an exchange  of emails on 22 January  2018 between Mr A and 
the adviser. Amongst  other things it seems  Mr A was querying  the charges. That too seems 
to support a finding that no earlier agreement had been reached.  Id have thought Mr A 
would have raised those issues, including a comparison  with what  other  companies  might 
charge, when the fees were first made  clear.  
And theres  no indication,  either on Mr As or the advisers part, that the charges had been 
agreed earlier and Mr A was seeking to revisit them. The advisers  email  sent on 28 
December 2017  also suggests firm agreement on fees had yet to be reached.   
As to whether  there is a legal agreement that Mr A pays the fee of £15,000 it is the case that 
Mr A did agree to the fees set out in the advisers email  of 24 January 2018   Mr A did reply  
saying Ok that is fine . But I agree with the adjudicator  that there were shortcomings in 
how any agreement came about and at what stage.  As the adjudicator  has explained,  the 
COBS rules impose specific requirements aimed at ensuring consumers are made  fully 
aware, at the outset  of the advice/service, what is covered and how much it will cost. 
From what  Ive seen I cant be satisfied that was the case here. And if, by the time the fee 
was made  clear, it was too late for Mr A to instruct another firm and still secure the current 
CETV, I dont see that Mr A really had any option but to agree to the fee Intrinsic was 
proposing. In that sort of situation I dont think it would be fair to say Intrinsic  is entitled to the 
full fee (which appears to be in excess of the amount Intrinsic might usually expect to be 
charged for business  such as this, even if the adviser was able to provide some justification  
for that in this particular case). I think the adjustment and refund proposed  by the adjudicator 
is fair and reasonable. 
As to the two matters raised  more recently by Mr A, I agree with what  the adjudicator  said 
about these being part of this complaint  rather than new matters which Mr A should  raise as 
separate and further complaints. 
Mr As complaint did include his concerns about Intrinsics  handling  of the complaint. What  
happened was that Intrinsic  sent its final response to Mr A on 18 June 2018.  He remained 
dissatisfied and there  was further correspondence.  Mr A raised the matter of Intrinsics  
handling of his complaint  which he considered  was inadequate. Intrinsic  revisited  his 
complaint and issued a further response on 3 August 2018. It didnt agree that its handling of 
the complaint  had been flawed. But I think its clear  that the issue  did form part of Mr As 
complaint. 
Ive considered what Mr A says about how Intrinsic handled his complaint. Mr A is clearly 
disappointed that Intrinsics investigation wasnt as thorough as he thought  it should have 
been and Intrinsic didnt take him up on his offer to provide further  evidence.  But I think 
Intrinsic did more than enough. I note Mr A followed up Intrinsics final response with some 
twenty-nine further points.  Intrinsics  letter of 3 August 2018 contained a point by point 
response. Mr A then supplied further  information  which Intrinsic considered before writing to 
Mr A again  on 12 September 2018. 
Mr A may not have agreed with Intrinsics stance. Id expect a business to try, if possible,  to 
defend its position. That said, if a business  saw that something had clearly gone wrong, it 
should admit  that promptly and offer to put it right and so spare the consumer from having  to 
Ref: DRN65975316go through a potentially  long winded and stressful complaint process. But here I think the 
issues were somewhat finely balanced. Our adjudicator initially  didnt  uphold  the complaint. 
So I dont  criticise Intrinsic  for its handling  of Mr As complaint. If Mr A disagrees and wants 
to refer the matter  to the regulator then he is of course free to do so. 
I agree  with what the adjudicator said about the tax that Mr A had to pay on the lump sum he 
withdrew. I dont think it would be fair to say Intrinsic is responsible  when Mr A didnt indicate 
to Intrinsic that he was planning to take his tax free cash lump sum once  the transfers had 
completed. And when hed declined ongoing advice and didnt approach  Intrinsic  for specific 
advice about his tax free cash. 
Im upholding Mr As complaint to the extent Ive indicated. And Im adopting the redress  
proposed by the adjudicator. So, to put things right for Mr A, redress  should be calculated  
and paid as follows:
1)Determine the actual fees that were paid on the transfers that were paid to the SIPP 
provider. 
2)From  the figure in (1) deduct a figure  equal to 0.5% of each of the transfer  values that 
were paid to the SIPP provider.  
3)The resulting  figure  should be increased  from the date of each transfer in line with 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Total Return Index up to the date of 
settlement. This is the index we would generally  use as a proxy for the return a 
medium risk fund might achieve.
If possible the redress should be paid into a pension plan held by Mr A. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. But the compensation shouldnt  
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance. 
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax 
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement - 
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
my final decision
I uphold Mr As complaint.  Quilter  Financial Services Ltd must redress  Mr A as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020. 
 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6597531