K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Connells Limited  mis-sold  them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 2005 Mr and Mrs F took out PPI through Connells to cover  their income and protect  their 
mortgage payments  in the event they couldnt  work through accident, sickness or if they lost 
their jobs.
The policy cost £34.05 a month and it provided  a benefit of £690  per month to approximately  
match Mr and Mrs Fs monthly mortgage  payment. The policy would have  paid out 60% of 
the benefit if Mr F was unable to work  through  accident, sickness or if he lost his job or 40% 
of the benefit if Mrs F was unable to work through accident, sickness  or if she lost her job. It 
would have paid out 100% if they both were similarly  unable  to work. 
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  didnt think Connells advised Mr 
and Mrs F appropriately. And he didnt  think Mr and Mrs F wouldve bought  the policy if it 
had. Connells disagrees, so Mr and Mrs Fs complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Connells says this was an advised sale. So it not only had to provide Mr and Mrs F with 
enough information about the policy so they could make an informed decision about  it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for them  based  on their needs and 
circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont think Connells fulfilled its duty to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs F. And 
on balance, I think if Connells had advised  Mr and Mrs F appropriately  they wouldnt have 
bought the policy.
I say this because  Mr F has provided  evidence  that he had an income protection policy  from 
his employer at the time that covered most of his annual income  for a number of years. This 
policy did not pay out in addition to any money  he received from a PPI policy. So I think the 
PPI was a substantial duplication  of his existing cover.  I think  it very unlikely Mr F would 
have withheld information about his income  protection policy if asked  appropriately about it. 
I note Mr and Mrs F appear to have made a decision to allocate the benefit 60% to Mr F and 
40% to Mrs F initially and then Mr F says that after 6 months they asked for 100% of the 
benefit to be allocated to Mrs F. Connells has not confirmed  or disputed this but even if Mr 
Ref: DRN63534792and Mrs F did allocate 100% of the benefit  to Mrs F after 6 months, it would still have been 
more cover than they needed, and hence  unsuitable.
So, on the basis of this, I think the advisers recommendation was unsuitable and I dont 
think Mr and Mrs F wouldve taken out the policy if theyd been  advised correctly. 
I think Mr and Mrs F have  lost out because of what Connells has done  wrong  and so it 
should put things right.
putting things right
Connells should put Mr and Mrs F in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out 
PPI. Connells should:
Pay Mr and Mrs F the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs F made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Connells can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Connells to take off tax from this interest. Connells must 
give Mr and Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and direct  Connells Limited  to 
put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6353479