K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them  two payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies  in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs T took out PPI during a meeting at one of Lloyds  branches  to cover 
each of their incomes.  The PPI provided  50% of their mortgage payments in the event either 
of them  couldnt  work through accident or sickness or if they lost their job. The policy 
provided 100% of their mortgage  payments if both couldnt work.
The policy cost £26.24 a month and it provided  a 100% benefit of £389.65 per month plus 
their monthly home insurance policy premium and it provided £3 a month for every £1000 
they had borrowed.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr and Mrs Ts PPI first policy ended in 2003.
In 2003 they took out a second PPI policy during a meeting at one of Lloyds branches  to 
cover Mr Ts income only. The PPI provided 100% of their mortgage payments in the event 
he couldnt work through accident  or sickness or if he lost his job plus the same added 
benefits as before.
Mr and Mrs Ts second PPI policy and the mortgage ended in 2007.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs T chose to take out the PPI on both occasions and there was 
nothing to indicate theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs T disagree so the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale. This means Lloyds had to provide Mr and Mrs T not 
only with good  enough information about  the policy so they could make an informed  decision  
about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them  based on their needs  
and circumstances  at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr and Mrs T that they had a choice about PPI?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs T agree the first PPI policy was sold in October 1998 in a 
branch. Mr and Mrs T say they didnt want PPI with their mortgage and were unaware theyd 
been given it. Lloyds says Mr and Mrs T chose  to take out the PPI.
Ref: DRN62809382The only evidence I have  from the sale is what Lloyds and Mr and Mrs T have told us, and 
the mortgage application form which doesnt  mention PPI.  
I accept it is possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs T a choice  about  taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Lloyds gave  them  the impression they had to take it out. But it seems 
more likely Lloyds gave  Mr and Mrs T the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as 
part of their mortgage application,  and that they chose  to take it out, but have simply 
forgotten in the years  that have now elapsed. I say this because  this service has no 
evidence of Lloyds  systemically telling consumers they had to have PPI at this time. Mr and 
Mrs T had had the mortgage without PPI since 1992. And had they chosen not to purchase 
PPI, or had it been added  to their account without either their knowledge or consent, 
I wouldve  expected  them to query  or challenge  this shortly afterwards. I say because  I think 
its likely  that either  the PPI cost was shown separately on their statements or it made  their 
monthly repayments £26 higher than the monthly  cost of the advance they would have seen 
in their loan offer. 
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint) it is more 
likely than not Lloyds  presented the policy to Mr and Mrs T as compulsory or that it didnt tell 
them about  the policy at all.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Ts application form for the PPI sale in 2003. It 
shows that theyve  made  choices about the benefit level for each of them,  and they have 
both signed the application  form. 
So I think it is more likely  than not Lloyds presented the policies to Mr and Mrs T as optional 
on both occasions  and they chose  to take them out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs T properly  advised  
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs T lost out?
I dont know what Lloyds  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs T in 1998.  
I also dont know what information  Mr and Mrs T were given about PPI. I dont know  whether 
the policys benefits were  explained to them or if they were  told about  the significant  
exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs T agreed to take the cover 
out knowing very little about it, but I dont  know if they received  everything they needed to 
know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Lloyds  
recommended to Mr and Mrs T in 1998  that they take out PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs T may 
not have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs T have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances and needs in 1998, I think  the policy 
cover was suitable for them.  And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs T would have acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Lloyds had provided better information. My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr and Mrs T were  eligible for their cover  and all its benefits.
Mr and Mrs T were  employed and in good health  at the time,  so it doesnt appear 
they would  have been affected by any of the key exclusions  / limitations of their cover 
Ref: DRN62809383such as existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms. I note 
Mrs T was self employed, but the policy covered the self employed and in my view 
the terms for making  a claim were not onerous.
The mortgage provided for their home.  Mr and Mrs T both had income and Mr T had 
some sick pay entitlement from his employer which could have helped them make 
the mortgage payments if either  was off work ill or lost his or her job. But they had no 
savings and the policy would have paid out within 60 days in addition  to any sick pay 
or redundancy pay and for up to 12 months for each claim. So I think Mr and Mrs T 
had a need for their cover  and that it would have been useful to them if either had 
found themselves  unable  to work.  It could  have helped them financially at what  would 
be a difficult time - it could  have  helped them protect their home.
I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs T but I find it 
unlikely they would have agreed  to something  without having some  understanding of 
the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have  declined  it solely on the basis  of its 
cost had it been made clearer to them. Ive already said they had a need for it and at 
just over £26 per month it appears to have been  affordable. And as they were paying 
for the PPI monthly, they could  cancel it without further cost if at any stage their 
situation changed or they no longer wanted it.
When Mr and Mrs T bought the second policy in 2003, they chose for it to cover  Mr T only. 
Although there has been some inconsistency in the information Mr and Mrs T have provided 
about their circumstances in 2003, my understanding  is that their situation  hadnt changed 
significantly. And while theyve said that they would still have had income from Mrs Ts work 
if Mr T had become unemployed, I think the policy was suitable  for them in 2003, for the 
same reasons Ive given  above in relation to the 1998 sale.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policies were sold and 
Mr and Mrs T may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably by Lloyds in its dealings  with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive detailed 
above, I think Mr and Mrs T chose to take out the PPI policies and they would have been in 
the same  position  if Lloyds had done  more and properly  advised and informed them  - I think 
they would  have still taken them both out.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs T have not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI policies with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6280938